---

title: Battery pack with supplemental memory
abstract: Features are disclosed relating to a case for a mobile device that provides supplemental battery power and supplemental storage space to the mobile device. Additional features are disclosed relating to an external storage device that can provide supplemental battery power and/or supplemental storage space for one or more devices. Further features are disclosed relating sharing and searching for files. Files may be shared across multiple (e.g., two or more) devices, operated by or associated with multiple users, providing multiple file storage locations. Files may be searched across the multiple devices using, e.g., search terms, tags, and/or other search options. Searching may also be performed with respect to activities performed in connection with subject files.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495375&OS=09495375&RS=09495375
owner: mophie, inc.
number: 09495375
owner_city: Tustin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141125
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 909 578 filed on Nov. 27 2013 and titled BATTERY PACK WITH SUPPLEMENTAL MEMORY and of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 019 824 filed on Jul. 1 2014 and titled BATTERY PACK WITH SUPPLEMENTAL MEMORY the disclosures of both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties for all that they disclose.

Various embodiments of this disclosure relate to mobile electronic devices and or to wearable computing devices and certain embodiments relate to a battery pack with supplemental memory for use with a mobile electronic device.

Mobile electronic devices sometimes have insufficient memory for storage of a user s files especially in the case of media files e.g. video and image files .

Various embodiments disclosed herein can relate to a system that includes a case configured to receive a mobile electronic device. The case can include a top wall a bottom wall a power output interface coupled to the bottom wall the power output interface configured to engage a power input interface of the mobile electronic device wherein the top wall is movable with respect to the power output interface from a first position in which the case is permitted to be removably attached to the mobile electronic device to a second position in which detachment of the case from the mobile electronic device is inhibited by engagement of the power output interface with the power input interface. The case can include a battery and the power output interface can be configured to convey electrical power from the battery. The case can include an indicator component configured to indicate an amount of power in the battery. The case can include a non transitory computer readable case memory configured to store data accessible by at least the mobile electronic device via the power output interface. The system can include a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon a file management system configured to run on the mobile electronic device and the file management system can be configured to at least provide to a media player executing on the mobile electronic device access to a first media file in the case memory using a server based communication protocol and provide to the media player access to a second media file in memory of the mobile electronic device using a local storage access protocol.

The file management system can be configured to at least cause the mobile electronic device to transmit the media file to a second mobile electronic device via a wireless communication channel. The file management system can be configured to store metadata in connection with the first media file and the metadata can include a tag defined by a user. The tag can include an audio recording in some instances.

Various embodiments disclosed herein can relate to a system that includes a case configured to removably attach to a mobile electronic device. The case can include a battery a non transitory computer readable case memory an output interface configured to at least engage an input interface of the mobile electronic device convey electrical power from the battery to the input interface of the mobile electronic device and provide the mobile electronic device access to data stored in the case memory. The system can include a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon a file management system configured to run on the mobile electronic device and the file management system can be configured to at least provide to an application executing on the mobile electronic device access to data in the case memory.

The file management system can be configured to provide access to the data in the case memory using a server based communication protocol. The file management system can be configured to at least cause the mobile electronic device to transmit the data stored in the case memory to a second mobile electronic device via a wireless communication channel. The file management system can be configured to at least provide access to data in memory of the mobile electronic device using a local storage access protocol.

The file management system can be configured to at least store metadata in connection with a file stored in the case memory. The metadata can include a tag defined by a user. The metadata can include a tag generated based at least partly on calendar data stored in memory of the mobile electronic device. The file management system can be configured to provide access to a file stored in the case memory by transmitting to a remote electronic device a link to the file stored in the case memory.

The file management system can be configured to at least search a plurality of mobile electronic devices for a file meeting user supplied search criteria. The file management system can be configured to search the plurality of mobile electronic devices using at least two different network connections in response to a single search request. The file management system can be configured to search the plurality of mobile electronic devices by communicating with file management systems executing on the plurality of mobile electronic devices. The file management system can be configured to at least enable modification of a search result file stored on a remote mobile electronic device of the plurality of mobile electronic devices.

The file management system can be configured to at least enable presentation of a sequence of two or more media files wherein at least a first media file of the two or more media files is retrieved from a first remote mobile electronic device and wherein at least a second media file of the two or more media files is retrieved from a second remote mobile electronic device. The sequence of two or more media files can include a playlist of audio files or a slide show of image files.

The file management system can be configured to search for a file based at least in part on user activity information. The user activity information can include an indication of an activity that the user was performing when the file was created or modified.

Various embodiments disclosed herein can relate to a method of manufacturing a case. The method can include providing a housing configured to removably attach to a mobile electronic device. The housing can include a battery and a non transitory computer readable case memory. The method can include providing an output interface configured to engage an input interface of the mobile electronic device and the output interface can be configured to convey electrical power from the battery to a input interface. The output interface can be configured to provide access to data stored in the case memory. The method can include attaching the output interface to the housing. The method can include providing a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon a file management system configured to run on the mobile electronic device. The file management system can be configured to at least provide to an application executing on the mobile electronic device access to data in the case memory.

Various embodiments disclosed herein can relate to an electronic storage device which can include a first wireless communication interface a second wireless communication interface configured to consume less power than the first wireless communication interface during operation and a computing device configured to at least 1 transmit using the second wireless communication interface indicators regarding availability of the electronic storage device 2 receive using the second wireless communication interface a communication from a mobile electronic device and 3 in response to the communication i activate the first wireless communication interface where the electronic storage device transmits data to the mobile electronic device using the first wireless communication interface subsequent to activation of the first wireless communication interface and ii subsequent to transmitting the data to the mobile electronic device using the first wireless communication interface deactivate the first wireless communication interface.

The summary of certain embodiments provided above is not intended to be limiting and provides some example of the various embodiment disclosed herein. Various alternatives and other embodiments are disclosed herein.

The case can include a battery . The battery can be rechargeable. The battery of the case can be used to provide electrical power to the mobile electronic device e.g. for recharging the battery of the mobile electronic device . The case can include a power input interface which can be configured to deliver electrical power to the battery e.g. for charging the battery . The power input interface can include a port which can be configured to receive an electrical plug e.g. a micro USB or lightning electrical plug . In some embodiments the power input interface can include a wireless charging interface e.g. for inductive charging . For example the power input interface can be configured to provide electrical power e.g. to the battery or other electrical components of the case and or device when placed in an electromagnetic field e.g. produced by a corresponding power output interface . In some embodiments the power input interface can be configured to send and or receive data e.g. via a wire or a wireless signal .

The case can include a power output interface which can be configured to deliver electrical power to the mobile electronic device from the battery of the case e.g. for recharging the battery of the device . The power output interface can include an electrical plug e.g. a micro USB or lightning electrical plug . In some embodiments the power output interface can include a wireless charging interface e.g. for inductive charging . For example the power output interface can be configured to produce an electromagnetic field that can cause a power input interface to provide electrical power. In some embodiments the power output interface can be configured to transfer data e.g. to or from the mobile electronic device . The mobile electronic device can include a power input interface which can be configured to receive electrical power from the power output interface of the case . The power input interface can include a port that is configured to receive the electrical plug of the case output interface when the mobile electronic device is coupled to the case . In some embodiments the power input interface can include a wireless charging interface e.g. for inductive charging . For example the power input interface can be configured to provide electrical power when placed in an electromagnetic field e.g. produced by the power output interface . In some embodiments the power input interface can be configured to send and or receive data. Electrical power can be transferred from the battery of the case to the mobile electronic device for recharging the battery of the mobile electronic device and or for providing power to other components of the device e.g. the processor and or the display .

The case can include a user interface . The user interface can include one or more user input elements e.g. buttons switches knobs etc. which can be configured to receive input from the user. The case can be configured to transfer electrical power from the case battery to the mobile electronic device in response to user input received by the user interface . The user interface can include one or more user output elements e.g. one or more lights speakers displays etc. configured to provide information to a user. For example a plurality of lights can be included which can selectively illuminate e.g. in response to input from the user to the one or more user input elements to indicate the amount of charge that the battery has. For example half the lights can illuminate to indicate that the battery is about half charged.

The case can include a controller . The controller can include one or more computing devices e.g. computer processors . The controller can be implemented using one or more general purpose computer processors which can be configured to execute computer executable instructions e.g. stored on memory to implement various features and processes discussed herein. In some embodiments the controller can include one or more specialized computing devices e.g. integrated circuits which can be configured to implement various features and processes disclosed herein. The controller can be configured to control the transfer of electrical power and or data to and from the mobile electronic device . The controller can also control the user interface and the memory as described herein.

The case can include memory which can include non transitory computer readable storage e.g. flash memory a hard disc etc. . In some embodiments the memory can store computer executable instructions which can be executed by one or more computing devices e.g. the controller to implement various features and processes discussed herein. In some embodiments the memory can be accessible to the mobile electronic device e.g. when the mobile electronic device is coupled to the case . For example data can be transferred from the mobile electronic device to the memory and or from the memory to the mobile electronic device via the power output interface of the case and the power input interface of the mobile electronic device . In some embodiments separate interfaces can be used for transferring electrical power and data between the case and the mobile electronic device and in some implementations the data and or the electrical power can be transmitted wirelessly. In some embodiments the memory can be used as supplemental storage for files e.g. videos pictures music documents etc. which can be accessible to the mobile electronic device .

The mobile electronic device can include a display which can be configured to display images e.g. text pictures video etc. . In some embodiments the display can be a touchscreen and can be configured to receive input from a user. In some embodiments the mobile electronic device can include a user interface which can include user input elements e.g. one or more buttons switches knobs microphones etc. configured to receive input from the user. The user interface can include user output elements e.g. one or more lights speakers etc. which can be configured to provide information to the user. In some embodiments the display can be configured to provide information to the user and or to receive input from the user and the display can be considered part of the user interface . The one or more microphones can be configured to receive voice commands from a user and or to receive sounds for a phone call. The one or more speakers can be configured to provide notifications and other information to the user and or to output sound for a phone call.

The mobile electronic device can include a controller which can include one or more computing devices e.g. computer processors . The controller can be implemented using one or more general purpose computer processors which can be configured to execute computer executable instructions e.g. stored on memory or to implement various features and processes discussed herein. In some embodiments the controller can include one or more specialized computing devices e.g. integrated circuits which can be configured to implement various features and processes disclosed herein. Mobile electronic device can include memory which can include non transitory computer readable storage e.g. flash memory a hard disc etc. . In some embodiments the memory can store computer executable instructions which can be executed by one or more computing devices e.g. the controller to implement various features and processes discussed herein. The mobile electronic device can also include at least one wireless communication interface . The wireless communication interface can include one or more antennas and can be configured to receive and or transmit data e.g. via WiFi Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global Systems for Mobile Communications GSM etc. .

The case battery can be used to recharge the battery of the mobile electronic device and or to provide electrical power directly to the display controller memory user interface etc. The case battery can provide electrical power to components of the case e.g. the processor memory and or user interface . The battery of the mobile electronic device can be used to power components on the case e.g. the processor memory and or user interface for example if the battery is depleted. In some cases using the battery of the case to power the components of the case can be advantageous by avoiding or reducing the draining of the battery of the device by operating the case e.g. accessing the memory .

In some embodiments the housing may include multiple e.g. two or more portions that can be separated from each other. For example the housing may include at least a first portion and a second portion . The first and second portions may form the housing by connecting or coupling to each other e.g. via one or more tabs on one portion and one or more corresponding recesses on the other portion by a tongue on one portion and a corresponding groove on the other portion or by other attachment mechanisms etc. . A user may install the case onto the mobile electronic device or install the mobile electronic device into the case by separating the first and second portions . For example the first portion may be moved away from the second portion such that a distance between a top wall of the recess and a bottom wall of the recess is increased or a distance between the top wall and the power output interface is increased . Thus additional space may be created to allow the mobile electronic device to be placed into the recess . The first portion may then be advanced toward the second portion reducing the distance between the top wall and bottom wall thereby exerting a gripping force one the mobile electronic device causing the power output interface to be inserted into the power input interface of the mobile electronic device or otherwise securing the mobile electronic device within the recess .

In some embodiments the housing may include multiple portions that stack onto each other to sandwich or otherwise secure the mobile electronic device into the case . For example the housing may include a back portion that corresponds to the back e.g. the rear face of the mobile electronic device and a front portion that corresponds to the front e.g. the front face or display face of the mobile electronic device . The mobile electronic device may be placed into a recess in a first portion e.g. the back portion or the front portion and the complimentary portion front portion or back portion respectively may be coupled to the first portion to secure the mobile electronic device .

In some embodiments the housing or some portion thereof may be at least partially flexible such that the mobile electronic device can be inserted into and removed from the recess even if the recess is substantially the same size e.g. width length and or thickness as the mobile electronic device . Alternatively or in addition the power output interface of the case may be pivotable or otherwise movable to allow insertion into the power input interface of the mobile electronic device . The mobile electronic device can then be placed into the recess of the case as the power output interface pivots or otherwise moves back into its original position or orientation with respect to the housing .

In some embodiments the case can communicate with an external computing device not shown such as a personal computer. For example a cable can extend between the power input interface and the external computing device and data can be transferred using the cable. In some implementations the case can include a wireless communication interface and data can be transferred wirelessly. In some embodiments the case can be configured transmit data from the mobile electronic device to the external computing device and or to transmit data from the external computing device to the mobile electronic device . For example by coupling the external computing device to the case via a cable the external computing device can communicate with the mobile electronic device e.g. memory and or the case e.g. memory . In some embodiments the external computing device can access the memory of the mobile electronic device via the same interface and or protocols as if the external computing device were communicating directly with the mobile electronic device e.g. via a cable coupled to the power input interface without the case . In some embodiments the memory of the case can be accessible to the external computing device as an extension of the mobile electronic device e.g. using the same interface and or protocols used to access the memory of the mobile electronic device . In some embodiments the memory of the case can be accessible separate from the memory of the mobile electronic device e.g. as a separate drive . In some embodiments the memory of the case can be accessible to an external computing device even when no mobile electronic device is coupled to the case . In some embodiments a user can store files on the memory of the case and can access the files on the memory via an external computing device. Accordingly the memory on the case can be used for storage and transfer of files instead of a USB flash drive optical disc or other computer storage device. Because the memory is incorporated into the case that is coupled to the mobile electronic device the memory can be less likely to be lost as compared to a small computer storage device such as a USB flash drive or optical disc.

Various embodiments disclosed herein can relate to one or more software programs e.g. one or more apps which can run on the mobile electronic device e.g. using the controller as discussed herein. Various features described herein can be implemented in single software program or in multiple software programs. Various embodiments can relate to one or more computer readable storage devices e.g. one or more non transitory storage media having executable instructions stored there and the executable instructions can be configured to run on one or more computer processors to implement various features and processes described herein. In some embodiments one or more specialized computing devices e.g. integrated circuits can be configured to implement various features and processes disclosed herein.

With reference to some embodiments can relate to a file management system . The file management system can be implemented by the controller e.g. executing machine executable instructions stored on the case memory and or on the device memory . For example the file management system may include one or more executable modules that can be loaded into memory or and executed by the controller . The file management system may be integrated into an operating system of the case and or device or the file management system may be an add in component a stand alone application or service some combination thereof etc.

The file management system can be configured to access files on the device memory and files on the case memory . The file management system can include a file database which can be stored on one or more computer readable storage devices e.g. the case memory and or the device memory . The file database can include metadata associated with the files on the device memory and or the files on the case memory . The metadata can include one or more of the file location the file type the file creation time one or more file edit times the file version the location where the file was created user activity information associated with the file security information regarding who may access the file and or what the user may do e.g. roles permissions etc.

The file management system can be configured to provide a user interface which can be a graphical user interface GUI e.g. on the display of the mobile electronic device and the user interface can be configured to enable a user to sort and or search the files and regardless of whether they are stored on the device memory or on the case memory or on some other device as described in greater detail below . For example the user interface or some other component can be configured to receive input from the user e.g. via a touchscreen via user input elements via a voice command received by a microphone etc. . In some embodiments user input can be received by another device and the user input data can be transmitted to the mobile electronic device . For example a wearable computing device e.g. a smartwatch etc. can be configured to receive input from a user e.g. via a touch screen via a voice command received by a microphone etc. . The wearable computing device can transmit user input data to the file management system e.g. via the wireless communication interface . The file management system can be configured to sort and or search the files and in response to the user input. For example the user interface can be configured to enable the user to select a file type and the user interface can display all files of that type that are stored on either the device memory or the case memory and regardless of the file location e.g. regardless of what folder the file is in . For example the user can provide user input selecting image files and the file management system can access the file database to identify all image files stored in the case memory and or stored in the device memory and the identified files can be presented e.g. as icons or on a list on the user interface . The user interface can enable the user to sort the files by various parameters such as file type file creation time file edit time location information associated with the file user activity information associated with the file etc. The user interface can enable the user to search for files on the case memory and or on the device memory as discussed herein.

In some embodiments the file management system can be configured to perform operations open view edit delete share etc. on the files and or . For example the user interface can enable the user to provide user input for selecting a file. For example the user interface can display icons associated with the files and or and the user can select an icon associated with a file. The user interface can be configured to enable the user to select an operation for the file e.g. to open view edit delete or share the file . In some embodiments the file management system can be configured to open a selected file using a different program. In some embodiments the file management system can be configured to perform operations e.g. open view edit delete or share on the files and or directly from the file management system or from a related program that is configured to function with the file management system e.g. by providing updated metadata regarding the files and or back to the file management system . For example the file management system can include a media player which can be configured to use e.g. view or play media files e.g. images videos or music files . In some embodiments the file management system can access a media player of the mobile electronic device e.g. stored in the device memory to use e.g. view or play media files.

In some instances the mobile electronic device may not be designed to use external memory e.g. the case memory . The file management system can enable the mobile electronic device to use files stored on the case memory as well as on the device memory . For example in some instances the media player of the mobile electronic device is not configured to use a media file that is stored on an external local memory e.g. on the case memory . In some instances the media player of the device can be configured to use e.g. view or play media files that are stored on the device memory and or that are stored remotely on a server e.g. via the internet . For example the media player can include a local memory protocol e.g. a first set of instructions for accessing a media file on the local device memory and the media player can include a server protocol e.g. a second set of instructions for accessing a media file e.g. streaming a video from a server e.g. over the internet . In some embodiments in order to enable use of a media file stored on the case memory the document management system can include a local server e.g. a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP server that is configured to access the media file on the case memory and present the media file to the media player as a file being read from a server e.g. using the server protocol . For example the local server can stream a media file e.g. a video or music file from the case memory to the media player .

In some embodiments files can be created using the file management system . For example the user interface of the file management system can be configured to receive user input associated with creating a new file. For example the file management system can access a camera of the mobile electronic device to create an image file or video file in response to input received from the user. In some embodiment the file management system can access the camera program of the mobile electronic device e.g. stored on the device memory in to create an image file using the camera. For example the file management system can call the camera application programming interface API in response to user input for taking a picture or video.

The file management system can be configured to store metadata for the files and e.g. in response to the creation of the file . For example the file management system can generate and or store metadata for files created using the file management system . In some embodiments the file management system can be running in the background e.g. as a service of the operating system of the device on which the file management system is running . The file management system can be notified by the operating system or otherwise configured to recognize when a file is created or modified by another program and the file management system can generate and or store metadata e.g. in response to a file being created or modified by a program other than the file management system . The metadata can be stored as part of the files and or themselves or the metadata can be stored in metadata files e.g. in the file database that are associated with the files and or . The metadata can include one or more of the file location the file type the file creation time one or more file edit times the file version the geographical location where the file was created user activity information associated with the file etc.

The metadata can include geographical location information. For example the file management system can be configured to communicate with a location sensor e.g. of the mobile electronic device that is configured to provide geographical location information. For the example the location sensor can be a global positioning system GPS element. When a file or is created or modified the file management system can obtain geographic location information from the location sensor and can store that geographic location information as metadata for the file or e.g. stored in the file database .

The metadata can include user activity information. For example the file management system can be configured to communicate with one or more activity sensors . The activity sensors can be configured to provide user activity information e.g. sleeping running driving etc. . In some embodiments multiple activity sensors can provide data which can be analyzed to determine user activity information. An activity analysis element can be included e.g. as part of the file management system or as a separate program which can be configured to communicate with the file management system . The activity analysis element can be configured to receive data from the one or more activity sensors and determine user activity information based at least in part on the data received from the one or more activity sensors . For example the activity sensors can be included on the mobile electronic device or on a wearable computing device e.g. a smartwatch smartband necklace ear piece eyewear etc. . In some embodiments multiple activity sensors on multiple devices can provide data to the activity analysis element . When a file or is created or modified the file management system can obtain user activity information from the activity analysis element and or the one or more activity sensors and can store the user activity information as metadata for the file or e.g. store in the file database . Various features relating to activity determination which can be used in the systems and methods disclosed herein are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 057 931 filed Sep. 30 2014 and titled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ACTIVITY DETERMINATION which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and made a part of this specification for all that it discloses.

The metadata may also or alternatively include descriptive tags or tags indicative of the context of the file. In some embodiments the tags may be automatically applied to a file or suggested for a file defined by or selected by a user etc. For example a mobile electronic device may include a camera. A user of the mobile electronic device can use a camera application to capture images and or videos of particular subjects such as people places events and the like. Illustratively the user may capture multiple e.g. 2 10 or more images of a particular subject such as a graduation party. Later the same day the user may capture multiple images of a different subject such as a sporting event. By tagging the images for each event accordingly e.g. adding a tag to the photos from the graduation party indicating the graduation party at which the photos were taken adding a tag to the sporting event photos indicating the sporting event at which the photos were taken the user can later search for and retrieve photos for the specific event without necessarily knowing which date the event took place that multiple events took place on the same day etc. By way of example the tags can be used to indicate a one time event e.g. a graduation party to indicate an event that occurs over the source of multiple days e.g. a vacation to indicate a series of related events that occur on different days e.g. Sally s soccer games or to indicate a category of events e.g. work related events or family related events . Conventional file management systems and even image specific file management systems may organize images in various ways that make it difficult to locate files of only one of the two subjects. For example conventional image management systems may organize files by date and may therefore group the two different events together. As another example a conventional image management system may organize files by geographic location and may therefore group the graduation party images with other images taken at the same location at another time e.g. not in connection with the graduation party .

As shown a user may have multiple options and for adding tags. The options may be predefined by the camera application e.g. the camera application may be programmed with a set of possible tags such as graduation anniversary birthday holiday vacation work family and the like . In some embodiments users may be permitted to define their own tags instead of or in addition to using tags predefined by the camera application. For example options and may be tag options provided by the camera application or previously added by the user and option may be an option to add a new tag. A user can select option and enter the new tag in the text box . In some embodiments the system can be configured to allow a user to input a new tag name by a voice command e.g. by speaking the words graduation party into a microphone on the mobile electronic device .

In some embodiments the camera application may automatically generate or recommend tags to the user. For example the camera application may have access to the user s calendar e.g. the mobile device may have a calendar application and can determine that there is a birthday party scheduled for the current date and time. In the example shown in the camera application may determine that the user is scheduled to attend both a graduation party and a sporting event. Option may correspond to the graduation party option may correspond to the sporting event and option may correspond to a user definable tag. The user may select option and all photos taken with option selected may be tagged with the graduation party tag.

Tagging a file can include adding metadata to the file storing tag data in a separate database of file properties storing the file in a certain location e.g. a tag specific drive or directory etc. The tag data may be automatically generated by the camera application the file management system or some other module or component. The tag itself may be or include the name of the tag e.g. for a file tagged with the graduation party the tag that is added to the file metadata stored in the database etc. may be the words graduation party . In some embodiments the tag may be an identifier of the tag such as an integer that is uniquely associated with the particular tag. In some embodiments the tag may be an encoded version of the tag name or data derived therefrom. For example the tag may be a hash of the tag name.

In some embodiments tags may not be text based but may instead be audio and or visual based tags. For example a user may tag photographs documents and the like with a voice memo such as a brief spoken description of the associated files. The voice memo may be stored as a file or stream of audio data. The audio data may be embedded into the file or stored separately from the file and associated with the file in some way. For example a user may speak into or in the presence of the microphone . Audio data generated by the microphone or audio data generated using a signal generated by the microphone may be stored in a data store on the mobile electronic device or otherwise under the control of the file management system . As another example the audio data may be stored at a network storage provider e.g. a cloud based storage provider and referenced by metadata embedded into or associated with the file e.g. a link to a location from where the audio data may be streamed . As yet another example a spoken utterance made by a user for purposes of adding a memo based tag may be processed using an automatic speech recognition ASR component or service to generate a textual representation of the utterance such as a transcription of the utterance. The transcription may be embedded into tagged files stored in association with tagged files etc. In some embodiments the textual representation of the utterance can be used for the name of the tag e.g. graduation party .

Although the example described above with respect to relates to tagging of photos the example is illustrative only. Other types of files may also tagged and searched such as music files video files slide shows word processing documents spreadsheets text messages emails and the like.

The tags that are applied to or otherwise associated with files may be used to search sort organize and otherwise manage files. In some embodiments the file management system may include a file searching element described in greater detail below. The file search element may allow a user to select or submit a tag to use in a file search and the file search element can locate files with or associated with tags that match or satisfy searches in some way. In some embodiments the system can be used to assign more than one tag to a single image or other type of file e.g. a photo can be assigned the tags family and graduation party which can enable the user to perform searches at various levels of specificity. As also described in greater detail below the file search element or some other module or component of the file management system can use tags to search for files across multiple devices potentially belonging to or otherwise operated by different users. As long as the users used the same tag to tag files the files may be found by searching for the tag regardless of the device on which they are stored.

In some embodiments the file management system can include a file sharing element . The file sharing element can be configured to share files and or with an external computing device e.g. a cell phone a tablet computer a laptop computer a desktop computer or a wearable computing device . In some embodiments the external computing device can include features similar to those discussed in connection with the mobile electronic device . The file sharing element can be configured to communicate with the external device wirelessly such as via the wireless communication interface e.g. using one or more of WiFi Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC etc. . In some embodiments the file sharing element can be configured to provide a link to a file or to the external device e.g. via the wireless communication interface . The file sharing element can create a link e.g. a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP link to the file or to be shared. The link can be transmitted to the external computing device in various manners such as by a text message an email a NFC communication etc. In some embodiments the link may include encoded access information such as an account or device identifier a security token or some other information that may be used to determine whether the requestor is permitted to access the linked file. For example the link may include authentication and or authorization information that the file sharing element or some other module or component of the file management system can use to enforce security policies with respect to sharing of the linked file. In some embodiments the external computing device can have a file management system similar to the file management system of the mobile electronic device . In some implementations the file sharing element can be configured to communicate the link via a communication channel between the file management system on the mobile electronic device and the file management system of the external computing device .

The external device can use the transmitted link to access the file or that is stored on the case memory or on the device memory . In some embodiments the file sharing element can function as a server. For example the file sharing element can be configured to provide links to files and or to an external device . A request from the external device associated with a shared link can be received by the file sharing element . In response to the request received form the external device the file sharing element can extract any access information provided with the request e.g. information appended onto the link or embedded within the link and provided to the file sharing element in connection with the request . The file sharing element can then verify that the user device that is requesting access to the file is permitted to access the file and provide the external device with access to the file associated with the link. In some embodiments the file sharing element can transmit a copy of the requested file or to the external computing device . In some embodiments the file sharing element can transmit one or more portions of the requested file or to the external device . For example in some embodiments the file sharing element can be configured to stream a video file a music file or other file type to the external device . In some embodiments the file sharing element can share a single file or with multiple external devices e.g. multi user streaming . In some embodiments the file sharing element can provide the external device with read only access to the file. In some embodiments the file sharing element can receive information from the external device and can modify the shared file or based at least in part on the information received form the external device . For example the external device can send a modified version of the file or to the file sharing element and the file management system can replace the file or with the received modified version thereof or can modify the file or based at least in part on the modified version thereof.

In some embodiments the file sharing element can be configured to provide access to the file or without sending a copy of the file or to the external device . For example in some embodiments the file sharing element can provide image information to the external device and the image information can correspond to the file or . In some implementations the image information can be based at least in part on the image that would be displayed on the display if the file were accessed by the mobile electronic device . By way of example if the shared file or is a text file the file sharing element can generate an image file of the image that would be displayed on the display if the text file or were opened on the mobile electronic device . The image file or a modified version thereof can be transmitted to the external computing device for display. Thus the image displayed on the external computing device can show the formatting of the text without transmitting the text file itself to the external computing device . Other file types including video files image files audio files etc. can be similarly hosted by the mobile electronic device to provide the external computing device with access to the files. In some embodiments audio information that corresponds to the shared file can be transmitted to the external computing device from the file sharing element e.g. in addition to or instead of the image information discussed above .

By hosting the file on the mobile electronic device the external device can access files and or on the mobile electronic device which are not themselves compatible with the external computing device . Thus the file sharing element can enable file sharing across different platforms e.g. between the iOS operating system used by Apple the Android operating system the Windows operating system etc. . For example in some embodiments the mobile electronic device can operate on a first platform e.g. iOS and the external computing device can operate on a second platform e.g. Android . A file or can be compatible with the first platform but not compatible with the second platform. Thus merely transferring a copy of the file or to the external device may not enable the user of the external device to access the file or . The file sharing element can host the file or on the mobile electronic device and can send data e.g. image and or audio information that corresponds to the file or to the external device . Thus the user of the external device can be provided with access to the file or without opening the file on the external device .

In some embodiments the hosted file data e.g. image information and or audio information sent by the file sharing element to the external device can be tailored to the external device . For example the file sharing element can output the data in a format that is compatible with the external computing device . Thus the file sharing element can provide different data depending on the type of the external device e.g. an iOS platform an Android platform . In some embodiments the resolution of the image information transferred by the file sharing element can be based at least in part on the type of the external device e.g. based on the resolution of the display of the external device . In some embodiments the external device can send information relating to the type of the external device to the file sharing element . For example when the external device requests a file or e.g. via a link sent from the file sharing element the request can include information relating to the type of the external device . In some embodiments the external device e.g. the file management system thereof can modify the hosted file data received from the file sharing element e.g. to change the format or resolution thereof .

In some embodiments the file sharing element may communicate or cause communications with the external device using a display based communication protocol that specifies mechanisms for transmitting bitmap presentations of visual display updates and encoded graphical user interface input via a network. Illustratively the file sharing element may provide a view of a file using Remote Desktop Protocol RDP X Windows protocol Virtual Network Computing VNC protocol Remote Frame Buffer RFB protocol or the like. In one illustrative example the file sharing element can receive user input information from the external device and can adjust the hosted file data e.g. image and or sound information that is sent to the external device based on the user input information. Examples of user input include scrolling down in a text document zooming in or out of the image file pausing a video file muting the audio in a video file changing the treble or base audio elements in a music file etc. The external device can receive user input e.g. via a touchscreen voice command etc. . The user input data can be sent to the file sharing element e.g. via the wireless communication interface . The file sharing element can interpret the received user input data and can take action based on the received user input data. For example the user input data can include a location of a touch on a touchscreen of the external device and the file sharing element can map the location of the user input data to a corresponding location on the touchscreen display and can take action that is associated with a touch at the corresponding location of the touchscreen . By way of example a user of the external device can touch the portion of the display on the external device that is displaying the portion of the image data corresponding to a virtual button and the mobile electronic device can respond by taking the action associated with the virtual button. In similar manner the user of the external device can provide input that causes the mobile electronic device to take various actions. In some cases the external device can have read only access to the files and or . In some implementations input received by the external device can be used to edit files and or on the mobile electronic device and in some cases to save modified versions of the files and or .

In some embodiments the file sharing element can be configured to translate files and or to a different format e.g. to be compatible with the external device with which the files and or are being shared . For example a request from the external device for a file can include an indication of the type of the external device e.g. iOS platform or Android platform . If the requested file or is not in a format that is compatible with the external device the files sharing element can modify the requested file or or produce a new modified version of the file or that is compatible with the external device which is then shared with the external device . By way of example the mobile electronic device can have a first platform e.g. iOS and can have contact files e.g. with information relating to one or more of the contacts names phone numbers email addresses home addresses etc. that are in a format compatible with the first platform. The external device can have a second platform e.g. Android that uses contact information of a different format that is compatible with the second platform. To share a contact file from the mobile electronic device e.g. which uses the first platform to the external device e.g. which uses the second platform the file sharing element can produce a new or modified file that is compatible with the second platform. The file sharing element can extract the contact data out of the original file in the original format and can produce a new or modified contact file from the extracted data that is in a format compatible with the external device . The new or modified contact file can be shared with e.g. transmitted to the external device which can read the new or modified file which is in the format that is compatible with the external device . Various data conversion techniques can be used to change data from various file formats to another different file formats. The file sharing element can be configured to convert the format of various types of file including text message files contact files image files video files document files etc.

In some embodiments the receiving device can perform the format conversion e.g. similar to the format conversion discussed above . Thus in some cases a file or can be shared with the external device and the external device can produce a new file or a modified version of the file that is in a different format that is compatible with the external computing device .

In some embodiments the file database can store data in a platform generic format or in a format from which platform specific files can be extracted generated etc. For example the file sharing element can be configured to extract data from a file of a platform specific format and to save the extracted data in platform generic format e.g. in the file database . In some embodiments the file sharing element can be configured to extract the data and provide it in a platform generic format. When data is to be shared from the mobile electronic device to the external computing device the platform generic data can be converted to a format that is compatible with the external device or the platform generic data can be shared with the external device which can convert the data to a file format that is compatible with the external device . In some embodiments the file management system of the external device can be configured to receive and utilize the platform generic data without converting it to a different format.

In some embodiments the file management system of the external device can include a file sharing element which can be similar to the file sharing element and files from the external device can be shared with the mobile electronic device e.g. similar to the techniques discussed above .

In some embodiments the file sharing element can be configured to share a plurality of files and or with the external device and the external device can be used to manage the files and or that are stored on the case memory and or on the device memory using the external device . In some embodiments the external device can be a laptop computer or a desktop computer which in some cases can be better equipped to enable a user to manage a large number of files and or .

Many variations are possible. For example the file management system can communicate with the external device via a wired connection e.g. a cable engaged with the power input interface instead of the communication interface . Various elements described in connection with the file management system can be separated into one or more additional components and in some cases can be implemented in a separate device. For example the activity analysis element can be incorporated into a wearable computing device and can be configured to transmit user activity data to the mobile electronic device .

In some embodiments the mobile electronic device can be configured to communicate with an external storage device . In some embodiments the external storage device can include a file management system which can include features similar to those discussed in connection with the files management system of the mobile electronic device .

The battery can be configured to provide electrical power to a power output interface . The power output interface can be similar to the power output interface discussed in connection with the case . The power output interface can include a port configured to receive an electrical plug or can be configured to perform wireless charging e.g. via inductive charging . In some embodiments the power output interface can include an electrical plug e.g. that is configured to engage the power input interface or . The power output interface can be configured to send or receive data e.g. via a cable coupled to the port . In some embodiments an electrical cable can be used to transfer electrical power and or data between the external storage device and the mobile electronic device and or case . In some implementations electrical plugs and can be positioned at the ends of the cable . In some embodiments a single port on the external storage device can receive electrical power and can output electrical power.

The battery can be electrically coupled to various components of the external storage device and the battery can provide electrical power to operate the various components. In some embodiments the battery can output electrical power e.g. via the power output interface to another device e.g. to the mobile electronic device and or the case . Thus the external storage device can be used to recharge the battery of the mobile electronic device or the battery of the case or batteries on various other devices.

The external storage device can include a controller . The controller can include one or more computing devices e.g. computer processors . The controller can be implemented using one or more general purpose computer processors which can be configured to execute computer executable instructions e.g. stored on memory to implement various features and processes discussed herein e.g. to implement features of the file management system . In some embodiments the controller can include one or more specialized computing devices e.g. integrated circuits which can be configured to implement various features and processes disclosed herein.

The external storage device can include memory which can include non transitory computer readable storage e.g. flash memory a hard disc etc. . In some embodiments the memory can store computer executable instructions which can be executed by one or more computing devices e.g. the controller to implement various features and processes discussed herein. The memory can also be used to store files which can be made accessible to the mobile electronic device and or to one or more other devices .

The external storage device can include a wireless communication interface which can be configured to communicate wirelessly with other devices e.g. via WiFi Bluetooth NFC etc. . The wireless communication interface can be used to transfer files links to files metadata other data relating the files that are stored on the memory e.g. to the mobile electronic device and or to other electronic devices . In some embodiments data can be transferred via a wire connection e.g. via the cable . In some embodiments the external storage device can be used as a central storage location for multiple users. In some embodiments files can be transmitted in parts e.g. streaming a video such that access to the file can begin with little to no delay. In some embodiments the external storage device can use multiple communication protocols. For example the external storage device can use Bluetooth to communicate with devices within a first range and WiFi to communicate with devices within a second range that is larger than the first range. In some embodiments the external storage device can include or can be in communication with a router device e.g. a 4G router to enable the external storage device to communicate with remote devices.

In some embodiments the wireless communication interface may provide multiple e.g. two or more distinct communication modes such as a first or normal power mode and a second or low power mode. One example of a multi mode wireless communication interface is a device implementing the Bluetooth 4.0 or later standard. Such a device can provide a classic Bluetooth communication mode and also a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE mode. As used herein the terms low power and normal power are relative terms and the range of modes and or devices described using the terms may overlap to some degree. In addition many normal power modes or devices may consume or require much less power than certain other modes or devices. Generally described the low power devices and modes of the present disclosure consume or require less power than the normal power devices and modes of the present disclosure.

A multi mode wireless communication interface may use a normal power mode to transfer data such as files managed by the file manager system described herein. The wireless communication interface may use a low power mode to advertise the availability of the external storage device for connection and use. The wireless communication interface may use a lower power mode to receive a communication e.g. a request for data from another device e.g. mobile electronic device . Illustratively the external storage device or certain components thereof such as the controller may enter a sleep mode or some other low or no power mode when not in use such as when the external storage device is not providing power data or other resources or functionality to any mobile electronic device . As described in greater detail below with respect to the external storage device may still be able to communicate with a mobile electronic device even when the external storage device is in the sleep mode. A mobile electronic device may provide a notification or indication to the external storage device that the mobile electronic device would like to e.g. transfer a file to or from the external storage device . The notification or indication may be provided to the wireless communication interface using an appropriate communications protocol for the low power mode. The wireless communication interface or a separate microcontroller in communication therewith such as a low power microcontroller may then cause the primary controller and or other components of the external storage device to wake up or otherwise resume normal operations so that the mobile electronic device can transfer files to or from the external storage device . The file transfers may then be conducted using the normal power mode of the wireless communication interface .

In some embodiments an external storage device may include multiple e.g. two or more distinct wireless communication interfaces rather than a single multi mode wireless communication interface . For example one wireless communication interface may be a low power microcontroller MCU with integrated low power wireless communication capabilities such as BLE or which otherwise has access to low power wireless communication capabilities. A second wireless communication interface may be exclusively or primarily a normal power communication interface such as a wireless communication interface integrated with or otherwise utilized by the main or primary controller of the external storage device . The low power communication interface can manage communications with mobile electronic devices or other electronic devices while the primary controller and or other components of the external storage device are in sleep mode. The low power communication interface can then cause the primary controller and or other components of the external storage device to wake up and communicate with mobile electronic devices via the normal power communication interface.

The external storage device can include a user interface which can be similar to the user interface discussed in connection with the case . The user interface can be configured to receive input from a user e.g. a command to transfer electrical power such as via the power output interface or a command to indicate am amount of charge for the battery . The user interface can output information to the user e.g. the amount of charge remaining for the battery .

The external storage device can include a file management system which can have one or more of the features disclosed in connection with the file management system . For example the external storage device can include a file sharing element which can be similar to or the same as the file sharing element disclosed in connection with the device . The disclosure relating to the file sharing element is applicable to the files sharing element of the external storage device and is not repeated here for sake of brevity. The external storage device can provide links to files stored in the memory to the device and or to other devices. The external storage device can receive requests associated with the provided links and can share or otherwise provide access to files that are related to the requests e.g. similar to the discussion herein relating to the file sharing element . The external storage device can be configured to host requested files and provide data e.g. image and or audio information associated with the hosted files as discussed herein. In some embodiments the file sharing element of the external storage device can share a single file with multiple external devices e.g. multi user streaming .

In some embodiments the file sharing element of the external storage device can be configured to translate files stored in the memory to a different format e.g. to be compatible with the mobile electronic device or other receiving device similar to the discussion above in connection with the file sharing element . In some embodiments the receiving device can perform the format conversion. In some embodiments the external storage device can be configured to provide and or store data in a platform generic format similar to the discussion above in connection with the file management system .

In some embodiments a local server e.g. on the mobile electronic device or on the external storage device can be used to present files that are stored on the memory of the external storage device to the media player of the mobile electronic device similar to the discussion above.

In some embodiments a first type of wireless communication e.g. NFC can be used to establish a connection or authorization between two devices and a second type of wireless communication e.g. WiFi can be used to transfer files and other data between the two devices. The first type of wireless communication can have a shorter range than the second type of wireless communication. For example NFC can have a relatively short range of communication e.g. generally only a few centimeters thus NFC communication can be used to establish authorization to share files between two devices. Because NFC communication generally requires that the two devices be placed in very close proximity to each other e.g. touching the use of NFC to establish sharing authorization can reduce the chance that sharing authorization is unintentionally provided to a device. However because NFC has a relatively short range a different type of wireless communication e.g. WiFi or Bluetooth etc. can be used to transfer files and data between the two devices thereby enabling file sharing between authorized devices when they are outside the range of NFC.

By way of example the external device can be brought into close enough proximity of the mobile electronic device for an NFC connection between the devices and . The file management system can store an indication that the external device is authorized for file sharing. Files and or can then be shared with the external device e.g. via a different type of wireless communication such as WiFi Bluetooth etc. . In some cases the external device can store an indication that the mobile electronic device is authorized for sharing and the external device can share files with the device e.g. via WiFi . By way of another example the mobile electronic device can be brought into close enough proximity to the external storage device to establish an NFC connection between the mobile electronic device and the external storage device . The mobile electronic device and or the external storage device can store an indication that the other device is authorized for file sharing and files can be shared via a different non NFC wireless communication protocol. In some embodiments a user interface can enable the user to specify the files that are authorized for sharing. In some embodiments the authorization can last for an amount of time and can expire. In some embodiments multiple devices can have file sharing authorization at the same time.

With reference again to the file management system can include a file searching element . The searching element can be configured to search for files that are located on the device memory on the case memory on an external computing device and or on an external storage device . The search element can receive a query which can include text. The query can be inputted by a user e.g. via the touchscreen display via the user input elements via a voice command etc. . The search element can be configured to parse the query and identify parts of the query that relate to different categories of data and the search element can perform the search based on the different portions of the query that relate to different categories of data. Fuzzy logic natural language understanding and other such techniques can be used to parse a query. For example the search can be based on one or more of the following categories of data file notification type action type time information geographic location information and user activity information. The searching can include searching the metadata of files to identify files that fit the query. For example the query show me all text messages I received while driving yesterday can be parsed into various components. The file notification type can be text messages. The action type can be received. The time information can be yesterday. The user activity information can be driving. The file searching element can then identify all the files that satisfy the query e.g. by searching the metadata . This example query could enable a user to quickly identify a text message that was missed while driving even if the user does not know who it was from or exactly when it was received. By way of another example the query show me all photos that I took in Europe last year can be parsed so that the file notification type is photos so that the action type is taken so that the geographic location information is in Europe and so that the time information is last year. 

In some embodiments the query may include tags that the user would like to use when searching. For example as described above with respect to a user may take photographs at a graduation party and may tag the photos accordingly e.g. by selecting or creating a graduation party tag before or after taking pictures . When searching for tagged items the user may simply search for the tag or provide other search terms and options e.g. dates times locations etc. . The searching element can search the device memory case memory memory on an external computing device and or external storage device etc. for files with tags matching or substantially matching the queried tag.

A user of any of the various devices and or may use a file management system such as one of the file management systems described herein to search for files on any one or more of the various devices and or . For example a user of device may initiate a search query which may include search terms tags and or other search options. A file management system executing on device may search memory of the device for files that match the terms tags and other search options. The file management system may also search for files on the external storage device matching the terms tags and other search options. To perform such a search the file management system on the device may establish communications with the external storage device via the network . The file management system can transmit search parameters search terms tags and or other search options to the external storage device and a file management system executing on the external storage device can perform the search and return any matching files or data regarding any matching files to the device In some embodiments the file management system on the mobile electronic device may perform the search for files on the external storage device rather than a separate file management system on the external storage device For example the file management system on the mobile electronic device may have access to information about files on the external storage device obtained via periodic or dynamic synchronization procedures during which various devices exchange information about their stored files.

The file management system may also use the search parameters to search for files on other devices connected to the network such as external storage device case etc. In addition the file management system may use the search parameters to search for files on other devices connected to a different network such as network . As described above network may be a WiFi based local area network such as home or office network. The mobile electronic device may use a different network connection such as cellular telephone network to connect to mobile electronic device The mobile electronic device may search for files on the other mobile electronic device in a manner similar to that used to search for files in the external storage device described above. Illustratively the mobile electronic device may use both network connections currently or in response to a single search request.

The file management system may determine which devices to include in the search based on device grouping configuration information dynamic device discovery etc. For example one or more users may define a device group that includes a specified set of devices such as the devices and or shown in . The mobile device may then search the memory or other file storage of each of those devices or some subset thereof in response to search requests. In some embodiments the mobile device may use a default contact method such as attempting to contact a device over a local area network first. If that contact method fails the mobile device may use a secondary contact method such as attempting to contact the device over a cellular telephone network and or the Internet. In addition or alternatively file management system may dynamically discover devices on which to search for files. For example the file management system of mobile electronic device may determine which devices are currently accessible via the local area network and may transmit search queries to those devices. The example search methods and configurations described and shown are illustrative only and are not intended to be limiting. In some embodiments additional and or alternative search methods and configurations may be used.

The file management system can present search results from multiple devices seamlessly such that the user is shielded from the underlying device on which each search result is stored. For example a user may search images tagged with the graduation party tag described above. Rather than just searching for images on the user s own device or on an external device to which the user may have stored the images the user can instead search for images on any device that is reachable via a network connection. If other users on the same local area network or in the same device group configuration have images tagged graduation party stored on their devices such images may be returned to the user searching from device even though the user of device may not have taken the images tagged the images known where the images where stored or even known that the images existed prior to conducting the search.

User may initiate a search for tagged files. Illustratively the user may initiate a search for files tagged with the graduation party tag described above. The file management system on the user s device can initiate searching for images within memory of the user s device and also images on devices and even though one or more of those devices may not necessarily be connected to the same network as the third user s device . The file management system may present results to the user and the user may interact with the results without regard to the particular device on which any given image file may be stored. For example the user may define a slide show of images tagged with the graduation party tag. The slideshow may include images from multiple different devices and or devices connected to different networks e.g. the local area network of the house and or a cellular telephone network etc. The user may initiate playback of the slide show from outside of the home and the mobile electronic device can access image files on one or more other devices and or as needed via the cellular phone network the external storage device and the local area network of the home . Subsequently the user may enter the home and initiate playback of the slide show. The device may in this case access images files on the other devices and or as needed via the local area network of the home . The slideshow may continue to work even if one or both of the other devices and or is no longer in the home as long as the user devices and or is accessible via some other network such as the cellular network .

Although the example described above with respect to focuses on the use of seamless cross device searching and sharing of files the example is illustrative only and is not intended to be limiting. In some embodiments a user may search for access and share any other type of file. For example the third user may define a playlist of music and individual songs on the playlist may be stored as individual files on any number of different computing devices. The user may then start playback of the playlist on device and music files from mobile devices and and or external storage device may be accessed and played on device as needed. In addition the user may initiate playback of the playlist regardless of which network connection or connections are currently available to the mobile electronic device as long as the various other devices and or are accessible to the device via some network.

In some embodiments files may be stored only once for all devices and or of a group even if multiple users have initiated storage of their own copies of a given file. For example the storage provided by the combination of devices and or of a given group may be allocated by a file management system or multiple file management systems executing on different devices on an as needed basis group wide rather than a device specific user specific basis. Therefore if first user stores a file on external storage device or some other device such as mobile electronic device a subsequent user that initiates storage of an identical file will instead be associated with the file stored by the first user . For example the file management system executing on a second user s device may determine whether an identical copy of the file has been stored on any other device of the group of devices and if so the file management system can store metadata indicating the location and identity of file in lieu of storing a duplicate copy of the file.

In some embodiments tags may be used to determine which users may access shared files. For example the first user may store a particular file on the external storage device but may not wish to have the file available to any and all users associated with the group. The first user may add a tag to the file as described above linking the tag to a particular subset of users such as a personal tag indicating that the file is not to be shared with any other user or device in which case the file may be stored on the user s specific device by default a public tag indicating that any user or device of the group may access the file a home tag indicating that only members of the user s household may access the file etc.

Returning to a search query can also include information regarding one or more actions to be performed on the results. For example the user can provide input to delete all contacts that were modified last week and the query can be parsed to have a file notification type of contacts an action type of modified and time information of last week. The query can also be parsed to identify that the action to be performed on the identified files is delete. The time information can be a specific time or a range of times. The geographic location can be specific location or a more general area. In some embodiments the file searching element can provide additional information that is determined to be relevant to the submitted query. For example the user can submit a query of how was my sleep last night The file searching element can parse the query and provide an appropriate response such as You slept for 7 hours and the score of your sleep was 85 . The file searching element can access an appropriate program for computing the sleep score or the file searching element can be configured to make this determination itself. The file searching element can also provide additional information or questions such as would you like to see how well your sleep compares to the national average or would you like to see how well your sleep compares to your friends The search techniques discussed above can be used for searching files on a computer and for searching for files on the internet as well.

Various embodiments disclosed herein can relate to wearable computing devices such as those discussed in PCT Patent Application No. PCT US2014 045549 filed Jul. 7 2014 and titled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR COMMUNICATIVELY COUPLING A WEARABLE COMPUTER WITH ONE OR MORE NON WEARABLE COMPUTERS which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 845 316 the 316 Application filed Jul. 11 2013 and titled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR COMMUNICATIVELY COUPLING A WEARABLE COMPUTER WITH ONE OR MORE EXTERNAL COMPUTERS both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety and made a part of this specification for all that they disclose. As described herein and in the 316 Application wearable computing devices can be used to determine user activity information. The mobile electronic device and or the wearable computing device can take action based at least in part on the determined user activity. For example if a determination is made that the user is driving the user s electronic calendar can be consulted and the device can present or offer to present driving directions to the location of the next appointment in the calendar.

When the determination is made that a user has stopped an activity the mobile electronic device and or the wearable computing device can provide the user with a summary of the activity that was stopped. For example if the determination is made that the user was running and has now stopped the device can inform the user with information about the run e.g. of how far the user ran the average speed the improvement over one or more prior runs a map of the run etc. . In some instances the device can make an inquiry to the user of whether the user has completed the run or has merely stopped temporarily e.g. to stretch . By way of another example when the determination is made that the user was sleeping and is now awake the mobile electronic device and or the wearable computing device can provide the user with a summary of the user s sleep e.g. number of hours score of the estimated quality of sleep etc. . In some instances the device can make an inquiry to the user of whether the user is finished sleeping or has only awoken temporarily e.g. to use the bathroom . In some embodiments the mobile electronic device and or the wearable computing device can stop delivering notifications to the user or can change the notifications during the time that the user is asleep e.g. as discussed in the 316 Application . In some embodiments when the user wakes up the mobile electronic device and or the wearable computing device can provide notifications to the user that were suppressed while the user was sleeping.

In some embodiments the activity analysis element can conduct analysis on the activities of the user and can recommend modifications in the user s behavior. For example by analyzing the user s sleep patterns the activity analysis element can determine that when the user goes to sleep within less than one hour after finishing a run the user s sleep quality is lower than when the user finishes running at least two hours before going to sleep. The mobile electronic device and or the wearable computing device can provide a recommendation that the user s schedule be changed so that the user can go running earlier in order to improve the user s quality of sleep. In some embodiments the activity analysis can include information from a plurality of individuals and in some cases can analyze user activity data on a macro scale. For example analyzing the user activity data could determine what activities are commonly performed during the time prior to a heart attack. In the event that the user activities for an individual user indicate a risk of heart attack the mobile electronic device and or the wearable computing device can provide a notification to the user e.g. a warning or recommendation to change behavior .

Various embodiments disclosed herein relate to systems and methods relating to building automation e.g. home automation . For example one or more rooms can include sensors that are configured to sense the presence of a user in the room. The user can be wearing a wearable computing device e.g. a smartwatch that can communication wirelessly with the sensors. In some embodiments the one or more sensors can determine whether a user wearing a compatible wearable computing device is present. In some embodiments the mobile electronic device and or the wearable computing device is configured to determine a location of the user e.g. by communicating with the one or more sensors in the one or more rooms . A building automation system can be configured to change parameters of a room in response to the presence of a user. For example user preferences can be stored in one or more computer readable memory devices and the building automation system can include a controller e.g. including one or more computing devices that is configure to access the user s preferences from the one or more memory devices and to implement changes based on the user preferences. For example the building automation system can chance the brightness of the lights the temperature of the room the volume of a media device etc. If multiple users are present the preferences for a dominant user can be used or the preferences of the users can be averaged or combined using a weighted algorithm.

In some embodiments the building automation system can be configured to change parameters of a room based at least in part on the user activity information e.g. determined using the wearable computing device . For example if the user is sleeping the building automation system can turn the lights in the room down or off and can turn a media device off or turn the volume down. By way of another example if the user activity is determined to be running on a treadmill the building automation can lower the temperature of the room. Many variations are possible.

The mobile electronic device may also have a wireless communication interface . Illustratively the mobile electronic device and external storage device may communicate wirelessly using various wireless standards and protocols. Although the examples described below focus on the use of Bluetooth and BLE these examples are illustrative only and are not intended to be limiting. In some embodiments the mobile electronic device and external storage device may communicate using other wireless standards protocols and technologies such WiFi 4G LTE Bluetooth ZigBee Ant and the like.

The external storage device may be in a low power or sleep state or it may be in a normal power or wake state depending upon current operating conditions. For example the default state of the external storage device may be the sleep state when it is not providing power communications or other features to mobile electronic devices or to other computing devices . In this way the external storage device can minimize the use of its battery power. However even though the external storage device may be in the sleep state the low power wireless communication interface may remain active and capable of communicating with other devices. For example if the low power wireless communication interface is configured to communicate using BLE then it may advertise its availability to nearby electronic devices at 1 . This advertisement can consume substantially less battery power than would be required by the wireless communication interface to advertise availability or remain ready for communication using classic Bluetooth.

At 2 a nearby mobile electronic device in receipt of such an advertisement may notify the external storage device that it would like to connect to the external storage device e.g. open and maintain a wireless communication channel rather than exchange advertisements notification indications and the like . For example a user of the mobile electronic device may wish to access data stored on the external storage device . The wireless communication interface of the mobile electronic device can transmit a request or notification to the external storage device using the appropriate low power protocol.

At block low power communication interface can receive a communication from another computing device such as the notification received from the mobile electronic device at 2 above.

At block the low power MCU can activate the main controller wireless communication interface and or other components of the external storage device . The activation of the components from the sleep state can occur very quickly thereby minimizing or reducing any latency perceived by a user of the mobile electronic device when compared to communicating with an external storage device that is not in sleep mode. For example the activation of the external storage device components may take less than about 1.0 second less than about 0.5 seconds or less than about 0.1 seconds.

At block the main controller wireless communication interface and or other components of the external electronic device can conduct a communication session with the mobile electronic device . As shown in the communication session may include the exchange of data at 4 between the mobile electronic device and the external storage device as described in greater detail above. The exchange of data may include the transmission or streaming of one or more files to the mobile electronic device for use the transmission of one or more files to the external storage device for storage or any other appropriate exchange.

At decision block the low power MCU can determine whether a communication timeout has occurred. If so the process can proceed to block whether the main controller and or any other components activated in block can return to sleep mode. If no timeout has occurred the process may return to or remain in block where the communication session is conducted. In some embodiments a communication session may be terminated by one or both devices. In such cases the MCU can return the components of the external storage device to sleep mode without waiting for a timeout period to pass.

Returning to the low power wireless communication interface may resume advertising availability at 6 after the main controller normal power wireless communication interface and or other components of the external storage device have resumed sleep mode at 5 .

In some embodiments the low power wireless communication interface may not advertise availability when other components of the external storage device are in sleep mode. Instead the lower power wireless communication interface may monitor various wireless frequencies or frequency bands in a process referred to as listening for requests advertisements or other communications from the mobile electronic device or other devices . The wireless communication interface of the mobile electronic device can initiate communication with the external storage device while the external device is in sleep mode by transmitting a request notification or other communication to the external storage device using the appropriate low power protocol. The wireless communication interface can receive the communication and activate the main controller wireless communication interface and or other components of the external storage device in order to conduct a communication session with the mobile electronic device . Upon completion of the communication session expiration of a timeout period after the last communication activity or in response to some other determination the main controller normal power wireless communication interface and or other components of the external storage device can resume sleep mode. The low power wireless communication interface may resume listening for communications.

With reference to in various embodiments mobile devices can exchange information with each other. The mobile devices and can be cell phones e.g. smart phones tablet computers wearable computing devices e.g. smartwatches or smart bands protective battery cases external storage devices or combinations thereof etc. In some embodiments wearable computing devices e.g. smartwatches or smart bands can communicate directly with each other e.g. rather than to a host device such as a cell phone . The mobile devices and can communicate by various wireless communication protocols including Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy ZigBee etc. The mobile devices and can include features described in connection with the case the mobile device the file management system and other features discussed in connection with and the external storage device .

In some embodiments the mobile devices can include public data and private data . The mobile devices can be configured to share the public data more freely than the private data . For example in some embodiments the public data can be shared without restriction e.g. made available to all devices within the communication range . In some embodiments the private data can be restricted so that it cannot be shared with other devices or so that it is only shared upon permission received from the user. In some embodiments the public data can be restricted to some degree as well. For example the public data can be shared only to approved devices such as devices that the user has put onto an approved device list or devices belonging to Facebook friends of the user. The mobile devices can have several tiers of data with varying levels of restriction that are customizable by the user although only shows public data and private data .

By way of example the public data of mobile device can include the user s name and a link to the user s social medial e.g. Facebook profile. The private data can include the photos videos calendar appointments contacts etc. The mobile device can be configured to share the public data only with devices on an approved list e.g. specified previously by the user of device . Thus device can be configured to share the public data with approved mobile device e.g. automatically when devices and are close enough for communication and the device can be configured to not share the public data with unapproved mobile device .

The devices can store data received from other devices and the devices and can store data associated with the interaction between devices e.g. the identity of the other device or user the time that the devices started the interaction the time the devices stopped the interaction and or the duration of the interaction . Thus when devices and come into communication proximity with each other each device and can store that interaction time and when the devices and move out of communication proximity each device and can store that time as well. This information can be used by a searching element e.g. similar to or the same as file searching element . For example a user can submit a query such as who did I see last week while I was jogging who was at the party last night or how long did I see Mike yesterday. As discussed herein the searching element can parse the query and can identify different categories of data e.g. time last week activity jogging . The searching element can use the stored data to determine who the user interacted with and when.

In some embodiments a user interface can allow a user to enable or disable sharing of data e.g. even public data that would otherwise be shared . The user interface can allow a user to enable or disable receiving of data e.g. even public data broadcast by other devices .

With reference to in some embodiments charging devices and having supplemental batteries can share information regarding the available battery power of the supplemental batteries . In the example embodiment of charging device can be a battery case e.g. battery case discussed herein coupled to the mobile device and charging devices and can be external storage devices e.g. external storage devices discussed herein . The information can be communicated using various wireless communication protocols including Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy ZigBee etc. In some embodiments the battery information can be transferred from the charging device to the mobile device via a wired connection e.g. if the mobile device is mounted in a battery case charging device . In some embodiments an external charging device can communicate the battery information to the mobile device directly or relayed through the charging device that is coupled to the mobile device .

In some embodiments the charging devices can provide the battery information in response to a request received from another device e.g. from the mobile device such as a cell phone tablet computer etc. . For example a user can send a query from the mobile device requesting information about available battery power. In the example of the charging device belongs to the user and is a battery case coupled to the mobile device the charging device belongs to the user and is an external storage device e.g. in the user s backpack . The charging device belongs to a different user and is within the wireless communication range. In some embodiments the charging devices can share the battery information only with approved devices. For example the mobile device can request battery information only from devices that are on a list of devices owned by the same user e.g. charging devices and . In some embodiments the mobile device can request battery information from all available sources e.g. charging devices owned by the same user charging devices owned by other users within the communication range charging devices that are for sale or available for public use within the communication range . The battery information can be categorized and displayed on the mobile device . For example a display can show the amount of battery power available on charging devices that belong to the user on charging devices owned by other nearby users on charging devices for sale nearby etc. . In some embodiments charging devices can transmit location information e.g. GPS coordinates to a mobile device to help the user of the mobile device to find the charging device . The mobile device can display a map showing the locations of available charging devices. The charging devices can include a user interface to allow a user to enable or disable the sharing of battery information from the charging devices or to configure the parameters and restrictions of battery information sharing.

In some embodiments the mobile device can provide information about how long it will take for the battery of the mobile device to become fully charged for example based on one or more of the current onto the battery the current off of the battery a battery charge decay algorithm and a voltage output from the battery.

With reference to in some embodiments a mobile device can communicate wirelessly with sensor systems to gather information. For simplicity the components of the sensor systems are shown in connection with sensor system and the other sensor systems can include similar components. The sensor system can include one or more sensors e.g. a temperature sensor a humidity sensor a light sensor a microphone etc. . The sensor system can include a communication interface configured to communicate with the mobile device and or with other sensor systems by a wireless communication protocol e.g. Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy Wifi ZigBee etc. . In some embodiments Bluetooth Low Energy can be used because of its low power consumption. The sensor system can include a controller configured to operate the components of the sensor system as discussed herein. The sensor system can include memory which can store information collected by the one or more sensors . In some embodiments the memory can store the information from a sensor for a time e.g. one day two days four days one week or two weeks etc. and after that time the controller can calculate average values to be stored in the memory e.g. daily averages weekly averages etc. . The sensor system can include a battery to provide power to the components of the sensor system The sensor system can be configured to consume very little power such that a small battery e.g. a button cell battery can operate the sensor system for extended periods of time e.g. days months or years .

The sensor systems can be configured to send information to a mobile device in response to a query sent by the mobile device . For example a user can use the mobile device to send a query asking for temperature information. A sensor system having a temperature sensor that is within communication range can send temperature information to the mobile device in response to the query. The mobile device can request past information e.g. what was the temperature at this location 2 hours ago or yesterday or last week . The sensor system can access past information from the memory and send the information to the mobile device .

In some embodiments information can be relayed from one sensor system to another In the embodiment of the mobile device is within the communication range of sensor system but not Information from sensor system can be sent to sensor system which can send the information to the mobile device . By way of example mobile device can request humidity information. If the sensor systems that are within direct communication range of the mobile device cannot provide the requested humidity information the sensor systems can relay the request to other sensor systems that are out of direct communication range with the mobile device . In sensor system e.g. which can include a temperature sensor can relay the request for humidity information to the sensor system which can include a humidity sensor . The sensor system can send the requested humidity information to the sensor system and the sensor system can send the requested humidity information to the mobile device In some embodiments the memory of the sensor system can store information about the other surrounding sensor systems so that the sensor systems can appropriately direct queries to other sensor systems 

Sensor systems can be used in connection with building automation systems e.g. home automation systems . As discussed above sensors can detect the presence of a user in a room. Sensor systems can be used to detect environmental information as discussed herein e.g. temperature humidity light levels sound volume . An automation controller can change parameters based on the user presence information and or the environmental information. The automation controller can use various different communication protocols. For example a relatively short range communication protocol e.g. Bluetooth or Bluetooth Low Energy can be used by the automation controller to communicate with sensor systems and devices within short ranges. A longer range communication protocol e.g. Wifi can be used to communicate with sensor systems and devices at longer ranges. In some embodiments the automation controller can include or be in communication with a router e.g. 4G router which can enable communication with remote devices. In some embodiments the automation controller can communicate with remove devices via the internet.

In some embodiments content providing devices can be used to download content e.g. videos . For example videos and other content can be downloaded by a cell phone a tablet computer a laptop a personal computer a smart TV a DVR system etc. In some instances a user must wait for the video to at least partially download before the user can begin to watch the video. In some embodiments a content providing device can predict videos and or other content that a user is likely to want and can pre download that content before the user has requested to view the content. Thus if the user later requests to view the pre downloaded content the user can view the content without waiting for the content to be downloaded. By way of example if a user requests to watch one episode of a show the content providing device can also download one or more of the subsequent episodes of that show. In some embodiments the pre downloaded content can be stored in a restricted e.g. encrypted manner so that the user cannot view the pre downloaded content until that content is paid for.

One or more of the features illustrated in the drawings and or described herein may be rearranged and or combined into a single component or embodied in several components. Additional components may also be added. While certain example embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive. Thus the inventions are not limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other modifications may occur to those ordinarily skilled in the art based on the present disclosure.

The various operations of methods described above may be performed by any suitable means capable of performing the operations such as various hardware and or software component s circuits and or module s . Generally any operations illustrated in the Figures may be performed by corresponding functional means capable of performing the operations.

The methods disclosed herein comprise one or more steps or actions for achieving the described method. The method steps and or actions may be interchanged with one another without departing from the scope of the claims. In other words unless a specific order of steps or actions is specified the order and or use of specific steps and or actions may be modified without departing from the scope of the claims. Method step and or actions disclosed herein can be performed in conjunction with each other and steps and or actions can be further divided into additional steps and or actions.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the present disclosure may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array signal FPGA or other programmable logic device PLD discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any commercially available processor controller microcontroller or state machine etc. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Thus in some aspects computer readable medium may comprise non transitory computer readable medium e.g. tangible media . In addition in some aspects computer readable medium may comprise transitory computer readable medium e.g. a signal . Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

It is to be understood that the claims are not limited to the precise configuration and components illustrated above. Various modifications changes and variations may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the methods and apparatus described above.

