---

title: Customization apparatus and method
abstract: Systems for and methods of customizing at least one gaming apparatus is provided. The at least one gaming apparatus is operated as a slot machine game. The system includes a storage unit for storing a plurality of themes. Each of the plurality of themes includes a first set of full-motion videos associated with a first body portion of a plurality of actors, a second set of full-motion videos associated with a second body portion of the plurality of actors, and a third set of full-motion videos associated with a third body portion of the plurality of actors. The system includes a circuit configured to receive a selection of a theme from the plurality of themes. The circuit is further configured to cause the at least one gaming apparatus to display the first set, the second set, and the third set of videos for the selected theme.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330540&OS=09330540&RS=09330540
owner: 
number: 09330540
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140327
---
This application is a continuation of International Application No. PCT US2012 058059 filed Sep. 28 2012 which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 542 094 filed Sep. 30 2011. International Application No. PCT US2012 058059 is also a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 423 856 filed Mar. 19 2012 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 365 788 filed Feb. 4 2009 which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 026 404 filed Feb. 5 2008. The entireties of International Application No. PCT US2012 058059 U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 542 094 and 61 026 404 and U.S. application Ser. Nos. 13 423 856 and 12 365 788 are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present application relates generally to the field of gaming systems. More specifically the present disclosure relates to a customizable video slot machine or other games of chance.

Slot machines typically include three or more reels that spin when a user enters money and starts the machine by for example pulling a lever provided on the side of the machine. The reels spin then stop to reveal one of several symbols on the reel. By matching symbols on the reels a user may win a prize. The reels are generally arranged horizontally and include brightly colored and easily recognizable symbols such as images of fruits or simple shapes such as bells diamonds or hearts. Video slot machines substitute mechanical reels for scrolling portions on a video screen. If a user matches the symbols on the reels they may be allowed to use the winnings to try again or press the bet to win a larger prize.

One embodiment relates to a system for customizing at least one gaming apparatus. The at least one gaming apparatus is operated as a slot machine game. The system includes a storage unit for storing a plurality of themes. Each of the plurality of themes includes a first set of full motion videos associated with a first body portion of a plurality of actors a second set of full motion videos associated with a second body portion of the plurality of actors and a third set of full motion videos associated with a third body portion of the plurality of actors. The system includes a circuit configured to receive a selection of a theme from the plurality of themes. The circuit is further configured to cause the at least one gaming apparatus to display the first set the second set and the third set of videos for the selected theme. The slot machine game enters a winning state when video shown in the first body portion the second body portion the third body portion are associated with a same actor wearing a matching set of clothing.

Another embodiment relates to a computerized method of customizing at least one gaming apparatus. The at least one gaming apparatus is operated as a slot machine game. The method includes receiving at a processing circuit a selection of a theme from a plurality of themes. Each of the plurality of themes includes a first set of full motion videos associated with a first body portion of a plurality of actors a second set of full motion videos associated with a second body portion of the plurality of actors and a third set of full motion videos associated with a third body portion of the plurality of actors. The method includes causing the at least one gaming apparatus to display the first set the second set and the third set of videos for the selected theme. The slot machine game enters a winning state when video shown in the first body portion the second body portion the third body portion are associated with a same actor wearing a matching set of clothing.

Further embodiments of the disclosure relate to systems and methods for customizing one or more gaming apparatus such as those described herein. In one exemplary embodiment a gaming apparatus may be configured to display three body portions of a character on independent portions of a display image such that a winning state is entered when the same character and or consistent clothing e.g. clothing associated with the same theme such as same colored swimsuit same uniform etc. appears in the three body portions when the gaming apparatus stops varying the portions. A system for customizing the gaming apparatus may be configured to receive user input data relating to a display image that may be displayed on the gaming apparatus while a user is playing. The system may be configured to generate customization data based on the user input data and transmit the customization data to the gaming apparatus. The gaming apparatus may be configured to determine at least one of a character an article of clothing and a background image to be displayed while a user is playing the gaming apparatus based on the customization data.

Alternative exemplary embodiments relate to other features and combinations of features as may be generally described in the present disclosure.

Before turning to the figures which illustrate the exemplary embodiments in detail it should be understood that the application is not limited to the details or methodology set forth in the description or illustrated in the figures. It should also be understood that the terminology is for the purpose of description only and should not be regarded as limiting.

Referring to a gaming apparatus can be a slot machine or similar device. Apparatus can generally be a game of chance and can include a multitude of graphic images e.g. screen shots video shots pictures etc. or representations thereof. A player pays money or some other form of credits to play the game which includes a circuit configured in one or more modules e.g. software and or hardware and to rotate or otherwise jumble the graphics. If the graphic images line up in some predetermined pattern the player wins. According to an exemplary embodiment gaming apparatus includes a user interface and a display . Gaming apparatus may include a slot to receive coins and or tokens or a magnetic reader to accept credit cards or other items with a magnetic strip. Gaming apparatus can also include an account login feature that allows a user to log into gaming apparatus with account information e.g. a username and password to access pre stored money or credits e.g. a player s club account a credit card associated with a hotel room etc. .

User interface allows a player to start and otherwise control gaming apparatus and select various options e.g. number of credits to wager the gender of the model or character etc. . As shown in interface includes a multitude of buttons provided below display . According to other exemplary embodiments user interface may include a traditional lever or any other suitable tactile input device. User interface may be integrated with display e.g. a touch screen or may be provided separately from display as shown in . User interface can be a single user interface element e.g. a single lever or button or include a plurality of user interface elements.

According to an exemplary embodiment gaming apparatus operates as a video slot machine and display is configured to show graphical representations of three or more reels e.g. screen portions screens etc. . As described below display changes depending on whether the machine is idle in use or in play. While most slot machines include reels with various symbols such as images of fruits or simple shapes such as bells diamonds or hearts gaming apparatus includes images of models or other characters. The models can be clothed in various sets of clothing. Gaming apparatus can be configured to allow a player to win by completing a set of clothing.

Referring also to in an idle mode when no one is playing display shows static images or video of a model e.g. video of a real person in a bathrobe or other clothing. Model may stand still dance shift his or her weight look bored or may otherwise be moving or stationary. Audio may be periodically played through an audio system to encourage a user to play. The audio may match the static images or video of model . Model may be one of several male or female models that a user can choose from when playing gaming apparatus . The choice regarding model can be made at the beginning of a user s gaming session between tries at the game or otherwise based on inputs received from user input device . According to an exemplary embodiment different models are associated with different bets. In yet other exemplary embodiments different models are associated with different potential pay outs or odds of winning.

As shown in display enters a selection mode when a player begins playing. The selection mode may be triggered for example by a player inserting coins or tokens into the machine a player sitting down at the machine e.g. based on a signal from a human detection sensor such as a seat contract switch capacitive sensor etc. or a player pushing any button on interface . In the selection mode display shows more information than in the idle mode.

A portion of display for example the top of display displays a menu of available characters based on character data retrieved from a memory device. According to an exemplary embodiment menu includes a multitude of headshots for the various models a user may play with. A user may select a model with a touch screen interface or additional buttons provided proximate to menu . Menu may include more models than can be shown on display at once and scroll buttons may be provided to allow a user to view additional models. According to one exemplary embodiment one model in menu e.g. the model located in the center of the menu is highlighted. The highlighted model corresponds to the model shown on a center portion of display . By scrolling through menu a user changes the highlighted model and is able to preview the various models before choosing a model with which to play the game.

A portion of display for example the sides of display shows a multitude of winning combinations . According to an exemplary embodiment winning combinations are matching sets of three pieces of clothing e.g. cowboy cowgirl costumes beach swim wear sport wear formal wear lingerie etc. . The matching sets may include a first a second and a third article of clothing. In various embodiments one piece of clothing a plurality of pieces of clothing or more than three pieces of clothing may be included in a matching set. In some embodiments matching sets may include variations on the same articles of clothing. For example each winning combination may be three pieces of sportswear corresponding to the same professional athletic team. Prize values e.g. the number of coins or credits a player can win may be displayed along with each of the matching sets of clothing. The winning combinations are configured to be distinct from each other e.g. displayed separately such that a user can easily determine whether a winning combination has been achieved during play. The possible pieces of clothing may have a similar theme for both male and female models or may be provided for only the male or female models.

A central portion of display shows a model in a bathrobe or other clothing similar to the idle mode. According to an exemplary embodiment the central portion of display is divided to include a first portion a second portion a third portion and a fourth portion . In an alternative embodiment only one portion a plurality of portions or more than four portions may be provided for variable or interchangeable display at each portion. A dividing line e.g. a dotted line etc. or other graphical boundary may be shown between the portions or the divisions may become clear only when the portions begin changing. According to yet other exemplary embodiments a division between the portions is not visible or does not exist. The first portion second portion third portion and fourth portion are configured to align with the image of the model such that first portion shows the model s lower legs and feet second portion shows the model s mid section third portion shows the model s upper torso and fourth portion shows the model s head. Each of the first second and third portions correspond with one of the three pieces of clothing in the matched sets that are revealed and or varied when gaming apparatus is played. It should be noted that more or fewer portions may be provided according to various exemplary embodiments.

As shown in when a user begins play the game e.g. after using user interface to select the model and or to otherwise trigger the beginning of the game display enters a play mode. The user begins play by selecting a model and pressing a spin button or otherwise activating a user interface element e.g. by pulling a lever by touching a touch screen area etc. . Once play is begun a curtain or other obstruction can cover or obscure menu e.g. menu can be removed from the screen such as by displaying a curtain or other obstruction instead of the portion of the character to create the impression of being covered. Curtains can also cover first portion second portion and third portion of the model leaving fourth portion uncovered. Curtains may be animated to move across the central portion of display horizontally and or vertically such that first portion second portion and third portion correspond to the reels on traditional slot machines. Alternative animation schemes are possible e.g. spinning cubes spinning shapes morphing shapes morphing images vertical shades blinds etc. . shows display with curtain retracted to reveal an image of the model s upper torso with a first piece of clothing in third portion . shows display with curtain retracted to reveal an image of the model s mid section with a second piece of clothing in second portion . shows display with curtain retracted to reveal an image of the model s legs with a third piece of clothing in first portion . As curtains are displayed and moving the model may offer words of encouragement to the user via a speaker and or corresponding video or images.

It should be noted that each portion of the display that shows one or more body portions of the one or more characters may be full motion video of an actual human actor. The full motion video may be stopped or paused during one or more activities of the system in response to one or more events. According to an exemplary embodiment the full motion video may continue throughout all or most stages or activities of the gaming apparatus so that playing the game appears to be a simulation of interaction with a real human. For example when the curtains are moved over the character full motion video of the character appearing to change behind the curtains e.g. throwing her robe over the curtain etc. may continue to play. It should be appreciated that in some embodiments the curtains may not be provided and that full motion video of a character changing from a robe into a matched or mismatched outfit may be provided as a part of the game e.g. in response to a pull of the lever to start the game etc. .

In one embodiment curtains and are retracted in order e.g. by displaying a portion of the model with the clothing data e.g. video images received from a randomizer or jumbling module . Alternatively a preset order or random order may be utilized. Curtains and may be revealed simultaneously or sequentially. In one embodiment the user can select with a button which curtain is revealed.

If the images e.g. videos revealed by curtains are a matched set shown as one of the winning combinations on display the user wins the amount listed for that winning combination . A control circuit is configured to calculate a credit for the user and to store the credit in memory. Credits can be added by the control circuit to a user s account card a user s account on a network or otherwise added to an account. A control circuit can also be configured to cause the dispensing of coins that have collected in the machine or by any other mechanism. Further the model may celebrate and perform an action that is appropriate for the theme of the clothing. For example if the matched set of clothing is a cowboy cowgirl costume the model may slap his or her boot or if the matched set of clothing is swim beach wear the model may put on sunglasses. The celebration may be relatively short in duration e.g. less than thirty seconds less than fifteen seconds less than give second etc. to minimize the amount of non gaming action for gaming apparatus . In other exemplary embodiments the model may perform an activity or celebration that rewards the user and is longer in duration e.g. perform an entertaining dance which may be more than fifteen seconds thirty seconds sixty seconds etc. .

As shown in if a user is able to obtain a winning combination e.g. one time or several times in a row they may press the bet to win more credits by having the model perform some activity that is related to the matched set of clothing . For example a model in a cowboy cowgirl costume may ride a bull or a model in swim beach wear may ride a wave on a surfboard. The duration of time the model performs the action determines the amount of additional winnings the user collects. The gaming apparatus can be configured to automatically conduct this activity upon revealing a winning combination or the user may control this activity e.g. the user selects a button that says ride the wave for a bonus and bet again .

To help promote the slot machines and attract new models gaming apparatus may be configured to tabulate e.g. by storing statistics in memory the number of times each model s image is used to play a game by a user. The model may then e.g. receive a royalty payment for use of their likeness.

Referring now to a block diagram of gaming apparatus is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Gaming apparatus includes processing circuit configured to provide output to and to receive input from electronic display e.g. electronic display being a touch screen . In embodiments where electronic display is not a touch screen processing circuit may be configured to receive input from one or more user interface elements e.g. buttons levers etc. provided to a user of gaming apparatus . Processing circuit is shown to include a storage unit and a processor . Storage unit may include one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM disk based storage an optical drive and disk flash memory storage solid state storage network storage network storage via a server computer etc. configured to store data information for recall and use by processor . For example storage unit may be configured to store images e.g. image files video files digital video etc. . In some embodiments storage unit can store a first set of first images associated with a first body portion in a plurality of costumes a second set of second images associated with a second body portion in the plurality of costumes and a third set of third images associated with a third body portion in the plurality of costumes. In various embodiments storage unit may store greater or fewer sets of images videos associated with different greater or fewer body portions. The set of images are stored for each model or character. Each of the images or video may be captured video or images of real items and or characters and or may be computer generated video or images e.g. cartoon images three dimensional renderings etc. or a combination thereof.

Referring still to processing circuit can be configured to control electronic display and to cause the electronic display to display a graphical scene. In other words processing circuit can be configured to control the gaming apparatus and electronic display in particular to conduct each of the activities described herein e.g. with reference to . The graphical scene can have a first portion including a first image corresponding to a first body portion of one of a number of characters a second portion including a second image corresponding to a second body portion of one of the number of characters and a third portion including a third image corresponding to a third body portion of one of the number of characters. Processor can be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a general purpose processor a specific purpose processor more than one processors configured to work together or any other suitable processing part. Processing circuit can be integrated on a printed circuit board implemented on multiple circuit boards formed over a network e.g. the storage unit being remote from the processor or otherwise implemented. According to an exemplary embodiment storage unit stores computer code for executing and or facilitating the steps described herein and processor is configured to execute the computer code stored in storage unit . Accordingly the activities described herein can be implemented in software so that when the computer code is executed the gaming apparatus is configured to conduct the specific activities.

According to an exemplary embodiment processing circuit can include a number of software and or hardware modules configured to execute and or facilitate the execution of the activities described herein. In modules are shown in memory . Modules may be computer code object code script code an executable and or any other software or hardware that configures processing circuit to conduct one or more activities. It should be noted that memory may be the same or different than storage unit . For example storage unit may be disk storage while memory is solid state memory. Referring to modules randomizer may be configured to randomize jumble or otherwise vary the video and or images provided to electronic display while the game is active. Randomizer may include a random number generator e.g. providing a truly random outcome or different outcomes can be varied based on a weighted function or another algorithm that provides a quasi random outcome. The output from the randomizer may be used to select one or more first second third sets of video images from storage unit . Display module may be configured to drive and or otherwise control electronic display e.g. to expose application programming interfaces or other functions of electronic display to the other modules or components of processing circuit . Video decoder may include decoding logic for the playback of video and or images stored in storage unit . For example the video stored in storage unit may be compressed using for example an MPEG4 or DIVX format and video decoder may be configured to decompress and otherwise decode for playback the video. Account module can be configured to track a user account access a user account or otherwise manage one or more user accounts relative to gaming apparatus . User input module can be configured to process signals and or data received from user input elements e.g. a lever buttons etc. of the gaming apparatus. Statistics module may be configured to receive processed data from user input module and store data corresponding to users input e.g. the number of times a particular model is selected . Processing circuit may be configured to output the data to e.g. a computing device. Gameplay logic module may be configured to command the sequences of user and gaming apparatus activities during one or more games. For example gameplay logic module can be configured to cause the display to prompt a user for a bet begin the randomizer use the output of the randomizer to select one or more sets of video or images for playback on electronic display check for one or more winning conditions enter a winning mode when the one or more winning conditions are met utilize an account module to associate a game outcome with a certain user and the like. Gameplay module may also report bets and game outcomes to credit debit module which can be configured to debit or credit a user s account depending on the outcome of the game. Input received at card reader e.g. magnetic card reader near field communication reader etc. can be used to add or remove credits via credit debit module . Credit debit module can also cause coin dispenser to dispense an appropriate winning for a user when a win state is entered. Audio system can be controlled by processing circuit e.g. provided audio by video decoder when video is played back or otherwise e.g. to ring when a winning state is entered .

It should be noted that according to various exemplary embodiments the gaming apparatus e.g. gaming device slot machine etc. connected to a display includes any circuit configured to cause a character to be displayed on the display wearing multiple pieces of clothing the circuit being configured to vary the pieces of clothing shown on the character when a game is played. In other words it should be noted that while different portions and different images may be cycled through e.g. randomized jumbled spun etc. the gaming apparatus may be configured to land on or otherwise select one video which may be a winning video for playback on the display. For example rather than the cycle of different portions a user may pull the lever and the character may begin dressing or undressing to reveal a winning or losing combination of pieces of clothing in full motion video. Accordingly processor may be configured to determine if a user wins or not immediately near immediately when the user pulls a lever or otherwise activates the system. Depending on whether the user has won and what the user has won processor will begin playing a video involving the character that will reveal e.g. via what the character ends up wearing whether the user has won. Accordingly processor may be configured to enter a winning state e.g. a winning routine which may include video playback calculating a winning showing the winning to the user ringing bells etc. for the game when the pieces of clothing shown on the character match once the varying of the pieces of clothing is discontinued. In other embodiments the winning state may be entered when the user plays the game with the display changing to make the user feel as if they are watching the determination in real time e.g. even though it has already been determined . It should be noted that the winning state may be controlled by gameplay logic module as shown with reference to or may be controlled by one or more other logic modules e.g. routines computer code functions etc. in memory of processing circuit . For example gameplay logic module may utilize randomizer results account module and or any number of other modules or calculations to determine if one or more conditions for entering a winning state exists. When the conditions for entering a winning state exist e.g. when the video shown in the first second and third portions of a graphical scene are associated with the same character wearing matching clothing gameplay logic module may store data regarding the win state in memory e.g. update one or more variables stored in memory trigger one or more functions e.g. a function to cause the display of a winning video a function to calculate a user s winnings a function to sound an alarm and flash lights on the slot machine etc. . In other exemplary embodiments entering a win state may trigger other parts of the game e.g. a bonus round a multiplier routine allow the user to double down or otherwise increase his or her bet or the like . In yet other embodiments a winning state is entered whenever the conditions for a game win are determined by a processing circuit of the gaming apparatus.

In some embodiments one or more aspects of the gaming apparatus may be customized using a customization system and or method. illustrates a customization environment including a customization system configured for use in customizing one or more gaming apparatus e.g. such as gaming apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment. Customization system alone or in combination with other components such as those illustrated in may be used to customize various aspects of the gaming apparatus such as the images displayed on a display of the gaming apparatus. For example the model appearing in the display image the clothes the model is wearing the background behind the model and or various other aspects of the image could be changed or customized to correspond to various marketing campaigns or promotions. In some embodiments portions of the display image may be changed to correspond or call attention to a setting or theme such as noticeable features of a facility e.g. a casino in which the game is being operated attractions e.g. shows or performances offered at the facility or one of the promotional partners of the facility products offered for sale at the facility or by one of the promotional partners of the facility etc. In some embodiments the display images may be changed regularly e.g. periodically at predetermined dates upon the occurrence of certain events etc. to highlight different marketing or promotional efforts of the machine or facility operators or owners and or their promotional partners. In some embodiments the display images may be changed on an ad hoc basis.

Customization system as illustrated may be a server system configured to receive input relating to the desired customization of one or more gaming apparatus . . . and transmit customized data to the gaming apparatus . . . based on the input. For example the desired customization may include the selection of a theme for the winning combinations of clothing from among a plurality of themes. Customization system may be a processing circuit including a processor e.g. any general purpose or special purpose processing circuit and a storage unit memory e.g. any tangible computer readable storage medium . Customization system may receive the selection of a theme and in response thereto customization system may cause one or more gaming apparatuses to display e.g. a first set a second set and a third set of videos for the selected theme. In some embodiments customization system may provide e.g. a first set a second set and a third set of videos for the selected theme to one or more gaming apparatuses. In some embodiments customization system may cause the display of a user interface for receiving the selection of one of the plurality of themes. Customization system may also include one or more communications interfaces configured to receive and or transmit data to other computing systems and or devices. For example a communications interface may be configured to receive data from one or more terminals that may be used to customize the gaming apparatus . . . . A communications interface e.g. a wired or wireless network interface such as Ethernet or WiFi may be used to transmit data to gaming apparatus . . . that may be used to customize various aspects of gaming apparatus . . . such as the images that are displayed when a user is playing gaming apparatus . . . . In various embodiments the same or different communications interfaces may be used by customization system to communicate with terminals and gaming apparatus . . . . In some embodiments customization related data may be received directly by customization system through the use of a user interface such as a keyboard and mouse touchscreen etc. According to an exemplary embodiments customization system is remote from gaming apparatus . . . . By utilizing a server configuration for customization system a slot manager or other operator may be enabled to customize one or more gaming apparatus . . . without having to physically be present at or open gaming apparatus . . . to access a programming interface.

Memory may be configured to store one or more modules e.g. instructions that are executable by a processor to perform various functions that are configured to perform one or more functions of customization system and or one or more databases that are configured to store data relating to the customization of gaming apparatus . . . . For example a configuration module may be used to configure the operation of gaming apparatus . . . based on customization related input received for example from one or more terminals . Customization system may be configured to store media used to generate the customized gaming environments and or images e.g. images videos of models clothing for the models background images to be displayed behind the models in the game etc. in a media database . In some embodiments media database may store for each of a plurality of themes a first set of full motion videos associated with a first body portion of a plurality of actors a second set of full motion videos associated with a second body portion of the plurality of actors and a third set of full motion videos associated with a third body portion of the plurality of actors.

Gaming apparatus . . . may be customized in any or all of a variety of different ways according to various exemplary embodiments. In some embodiments images shown on gaming apparatus . . . while a user is playing may be adapted based on one or more marketing efforts that the operators e.g. casinos gaming companies etc. of gaming apparatus . . . may wish to highlight. For example if a casino is hosting a particular type of event models shown in the game while the user is playing may be used that are related to the event clothes on the models may be related to the event images shown in the background behind the models may be related to the event etc. In one specific exemplary embodiment a casino hosting a construction convention may choose to customize the games offered on gaming apparatus . . . to feature models wearing construction clothing or backgrounds relating to construction.

In some embodiments a background shown behind a model in the games may be customized. For example a gaming apparatus operated at the Bellagio casino in Las Vegas Nev. may be customized to feature a moving water show in the background of the model reminiscent of the well known dancing fountain show in the front of the facility or a gaming apparatus operated in the Venetian casino may feature a gondola traveling down a canal. In some embodiments the background may be related to a special promotion that the operator or a promotional partner wishes to highlight to users such as a product sold by an owner of the facility or a partner or an attraction offered by the owner or partner. For example logos images videos and or other types of media relating to a show that is playing at a casino may be displayed in the background of the model. In other examples various products e.g. sold in a gift shop of the casino may be displayed in the background of the model. In some embodiments the images of the models used in the game may be captured by placing the models in front of a green screen such that the background behind the model may be easily customized using separately captured and or generated images. For example the image may be customized to make it appear that the model is attending an event or show at the resort or casino in which the gaming apparatus is operated.

In some embodiments the clothing worn by the model may be customized. In some embodiments the winning combinations may be associated with a particular theme. Each theme may include a plurality of matching sets of clothing for a plurality of actors. Each matching set of clothing may include a first article of clothing for the first body portion a second article of clothing for the second body portion and a third article of clothing for the third body portion. For each matching set and for each actor the themes may include a first image video corresponding to a first body portion a second image video corresponding to a second body portion and a third image video corresponding to a third body portion. For example the clothing may be clothing related to theme or feature of a casino or casino partner such as a Roman outfit at Caesar s Palace casino. In another example the clothing may be customized to feature a particular event such as a firefighter s outfit when a firefighter convention is being held at a casino. The winning combinations may include variations on the particular theme e.g. different matching sets of clothing . In the example above different winning combinations may include clothing for the fire departments of different municipalities e.g. New York City Fire Department Los Angeles Fire Department etc. . In some embodiments the clothing may be customized to feature a product or service that is available for sale by the casino or a partner of the casino or an attraction that is offered by the casino or a partner. For example a Bebe outfit offered for sale at the Bellagio may be a winning clothing combination for a gaming apparatus operated at the Bellagio. A t shirt from the Elvis show that is featured at the Aria casino may be part of the winning clothing combination for a gaming machine operated at the Aria.

In some embodiments companies may pay to have certain products or brands featured within the clothing items or backgrounds of the game. For example a company that produces a particular brand of boots e.g. Ugg may have the casino or a marketing partner of the casino customize one or more games to feature a new line of the company s boots. In some embodiments the gaming apparatus may be customized to execute one or more additional actions intended to highlight the product or brand. Customization system may store a background image an action sequence in response to a winning state of the slot machine and audio for a given theme. In response to the selection of a theme customization system may also cause one or more gaming apparatuses to display the background image of the selected theme display the action sequence of the selected theme and or play the audio corresponding to the selected theme. For example on a winning combination the model who is wearing the new boots in the game may shout out the product name and or say I love my new Brand X boots Customization system may also store an information sequence with video image and or text corresponding to a particular theme. The information sequence may be displayed in response to the winning state of the slot machine. For example the background may change to a storefront where the product can be found or a new screen may be displayed showing information relating to the product.

In some embodiments the models themselves may be customized. For example Hooters calendar models may be used as models in gaming apparatus operated at Hooters casino Miss America contestants may be used as models in gaming apparatus operated at Planet Hollywood casino Cirque du Soleil characters or performers may be used as models in gaming apparatus at casinos featuring Cirque du Soleil shows Playboy Playmates may be used as models in gaming apparatus at the Palms casino where the Playboy Club is located etc.

In some embodiments various features of the gaming apparatus such as the images of the models background images etc. may be configured so as to not provide clues to the user as to whether or not the user has won before the round of the game has concluded e.g. the reels have stopped . For example the images of the model e.g. winning images losing images etc. may be configured to have consistent features such as height width etc. In some embodiments the images videos of the models may be captured at a central location using one photography videography company using a set of parameters to ensure continuity between images etc. In some embodiments a program provider and or apparatus owner may have a server based contact with the provider to control the content displayed in the games.

In some embodiments media elements other than visual elements may be customized such as audio elements. In some embodiments the language used in spoken words and phrases in the game may be customized. For example if a convention of Japanese businessmen is being held at a particular facility the operator of that facility may choose to customize the spoken language used in some games to be in the Japanese language. In some embodiments the language may be selectable by a user of the gaming apparatus. Customization system may store text and or audio for plurality of languages and be configured to receive a selection of one of the languages. Customization system may also cause one or more gaming apparatuses to display text corresponding to the associated language and or play audio corresponding to the selected language. In some embodiments other audio features such as sound effects may additionally or alternatively be customized.

In some embodiments various aspects of the games provided on gaming apparatus . . . may be customized automatically according to a schedule instead of or in addition to being manually customized by a technician or other operator of customization system . For example a promotional schedule may be provided to customization system and stored in a scheduling database . Customization system may store an indication of time when one or more gaming apparatuses will display a first set a second set and a third set of videos for the selected theme. The indication of time may include a year a month a day a time and or a range of any combination thereof. Customization system may be configured to automatically cause the gaming apparatuses to display the videos for the selected theme at the indicated time. Scheduling database may be used to determine dates and or times at which certain customization changes may occur at one or more gaming apparatus . . . . For example a particular casino may have a scheduled rotation of performances that will occur in the theater of the casino. Media relating to one or more of the scheduled performances may be stored in media database and scheduling data may be used by configuration module to determine when the one or more gaming apparatus . . . should be customized to promote the performances e.g. customize on a start date of the performances on one or more dates that the casino wishes to promote the performance etc. . In this manner casino operators and or their promotional partners may plan and execute game customizations relating to a marketing plan or schedule without the need for a technician to manually update the customization on the day and or time that the casino wishes for the promotional customization to begin.

In various exemplary embodiments input data used to customize the games presented using gaming apparatus . . . may be provided in any or all of a number of different ways. For example in some embodiments input may be provided locally to customization system using user interface . In some embodiments input may be provided using an on site terminal that is local to a facility in which customization system and or one or more gaming apparatus . . . are located and may or may not be physically located in proximity to customization system . For example an employee in a marketing department of a casino may provide input via a computing terminal located in offices of the casino. In some embodiments input may be provided remote from the facility customization system and or gaming apparatus . . . using a remote terminal . For example a casino may contract with an outside promotional or marketing company to organize marketing promotions for the casino or the casino s marketing department or employees may be located off site and a remote terminal may be used to provide customization information. In some embodiments data e.g. video data corresponding to a first set a second set and a third set of videos may be received at customization system via terminals or user interface . Customization system may store the received data in a storage unit e.g. memory .

In some embodiments customization system may be configured to transmit customization data to gaming apparatus . . . and each of gaming apparatus . . . may be configured to store data in a local memory based on the received customization data and customize its operations e.g. what images or other media are displayed while the user is playing what combination of displayed items constitutes a winning combination and or what credit value is allocated to a user for particular combinations and or other actions that occur in the gaming apparatus based on the stored data. In other embodiments gaming apparatus . . . may act as a thin client type of apparatus where some basic software is provided in gaming apparatus . . . to allow gaming apparatus . . . to operate but much of the functionality of the user experience is provided to gaming apparatus . . . e.g. dynamically while a user is playing from customization system . For example a user may register credits into gaming apparatus . . . and use a user interface to start the game. Gaming apparatus . . . may transmit a signal to customization system and customization system may transmit data to gaming apparatus . . . that is used to determine what should be displayed. In some such embodiments customized images may be displayed on gaming apparatus . . . without having to store all of the images e.g. for a long period of time on gaming apparatus . . . .

In some embodiments the customization may be performed directly on each of the gaming apparatus. For example a portable customization system e.g. a laptop computer may communicate with a gaming apparatus e.g. via a wired communications or input output interface of a gaming apparatus such as a USB or serial port or a wireless connection such as a secured Bluetooth WiFi or other wireless connection and the gaming apparatus may be customized and or modified locally. In some embodiments the customization system may be built into the gaming apparatus e.g. included in the instructions stored in the memory of the gaming apparatus and a technician may utilize a user interface of the gaming apparatus e.g. a display buttons a touchscreen etc. to set various parameters and or to provide new images videos and or other media to the gaming apparatus without the need to communicate with an outside computing device. In some such embodiments the gaming apparatus may be equipped with an input output interface configured to receive the media content such as a USB port or a flash memory card reader.

In some embodiments one or more of the terminals e.g. terminals and or may be configured to communicate directly with the gaming apparatus and serve as customization systems. For example various customization features may be provided within an application accessible by the terminals e.g. an application installed on the terminals and or an application provided via a communications network such as a web based program . In some embodiments users of the terminals may be required to enter authentication information to ensure that the users are authorized to make changes to the gaming apparatus.

Referring to a flow diagram of a process for customizing one or more gaming apparatuses is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Process may be implemented by customization system . Process may generally describe a server based customization system for receiving a selection of a theme and providing a selected theme to one or more gaming apparatuses.

Process includes providing a user interface for receiving a selection of a theme . In some embodiments a user e.g. an operator of a casino may access customization system via e.g. a remote terminal or on site terminal . Customization system may provide display data to the remote terminal or on site terminal to cause the display of a user interface e.g. a selection screen for receiving the selection of a theme. The user interface may be configured to show e.g. a summary of the themes that are currently stored in a storage unit memory of the customization system i.e. themes that are available for selection and the themes that are currently being implemented on one or more gaming apparatuses e.g. at one or more locations . The user interface may also show representations of the locations of the gaming apparatuses.

Process includes receiving a selection of a theme . A user may select a theme to implement on one or more gaming apparatuses at one or more locations. For example at a location that is hosting a conference for fire departments a user may designate that all of the gaming apparatuses at the location provide videos associated a fireman theme. A user may designate that a portion of gaming apparatuses provide one theme while another portion of gaming apparatuses provide a second theme. The user may make a selection of the theme at a user interface provided by the customization system step .

Process includes retrieving videos associated with the selected theme from the storage unit e.g. memory of . Processor may determine which videos correspond to the first set second set and third set of videos of the selected theme. Process includes providing videos of the selected theme to one or more gaming apparatuses . According to an exemplary embodiment the videos may be provided to the gaming apparatuses via a wired or wireless communications network. In some embodiments the videos may be provided for storage on the gaming apparatuses. The gaming apparatus may access the locally stored videos during the slot machine game. In some embodiments the videos may be provided to the gaming apparatus from the customization system each time the slot machine game is operated via e.g. streaming video . In some embodiments a background image an action sequence in response to the winning state of the slot machine game and audio associated with the selected theme may also be provided.

In some embodiments the customization system may be configured with data to recognize or estimate a player s preferences or retrieve a player s previously stored preferences. For example in a casino with a player s club card or similar ID charge card system a player may have entered preferences for his or her preferred theme. In some embodiments a player s credit card may be associated with the player s preferences. The customization system may provide the theme in accordance with the player s preferences when the player s ID charge card is used. For example a female player may have designated that male actors in fireman clothing sets should be displayed when she plays the slot machine game. Accordingly when the female player uses her card customization system may provide the corresponding theme to the gaming apparatus she is using. In some embodiments the customization system may be able to retrieve information about to player to determine themes to provide. For example a player s occupation may be known to a credit card provider. When the player utilizes the credit card at a gaming apparatus the customization system may provide a theme relating the occupation. For example if the player is a fireman customization system may provide sets of videos with winning sets of fireman uniforms. In some embodiments customization system may be configured to predict a player s preferences. For example a customization system may be able to predict a player s gender. Thus the customization system may be able to provide female actors in variations of sportswear associated with athletic teams when a male player operates the gaming apparatus.

Referring to a flow diagram of a process for customizing one or more gaming apparatuses at designated times is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Process includes receiving data for videos of one or more themes . . . . The data may be video data for a first set second set third set of videos corresponding to body portions of a plurality of actors. In various embodiments fewer or more sets of videos may be received. The data may also include an indication of time at which the videos are to be provided to one or more gaming apparatuses. This may be the case for example when a casino is operating with a particular schedule of events and has themes for the gaming apparatuses for each event in the schedule. A user e.g. operator of a casino may be able to specify a year month day time or combination thereof to begin and end the providing of a particular theme. The user interface provided by customization system e.g. step of may include a calendar or other interface for scheduling when one or more themes are provided. The data may also include a designation of a portion of gaming apparatuses on which to implement a particular theme. For example in a casino with multiple concurrent events a user e.g. operator of the casino may designate a portion of gaming apparatuses on which to implement a first theme and a portion on which to implement a second theme. Process includes storing the data for the videos in a storage unit e.g. memory . The customization system may be configured to associate the received data with a particular theme and store the data for later retrieval. Process includes receiving a selection of a theme . Step may be substantially similar to step . Process includes providing videos of selected theme to one or more gaming apparatuses at the indicated time . According to an exemplary embodiment the videos may be provided automatically from the customization system to the gaming apparatuses e.g. without human intervention . The theme being provided on the gaming apparatus may automatically switch from one to another based on the videos provided by the customization system at the time designated for each theme. A user may also be able to implement a rotating system e.g. with themes changing daily .

In other embodiments a push based system may be provided instead of e.g. a time based or schedule based system . An operator of the system may be able to select a theme and push the videos and other data associated with a theme to the gaming apparatuses. The user may be able to select the theme and the portion of gaming apparatuses to which to push the theme. This allows for the implementation of an ad hoc server based theme selection system.

The gaming apparatus and or system for customizing the gaming apparatus as shown in the various exemplary embodiments are illustrative only. Although only a few embodiments have been described in detail in this disclosure many modifications are possible. The position of elements may be reversed or otherwise varied and the nature or number of discrete elements or positions may be altered or varied. All such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure. The order or sequence of any process or method steps may be varied or re sequenced according to alternative embodiments. Also two or more steps may be performed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Such variation will depend on the software and hardware systems chosen and on designer choice. All such variations are within the scope of the disclosure. Likewise software implementations could be accomplished with standard programming techniques with rule based logic and other logic to accomplish the various connection steps processing steps comparison steps and decision steps. Other substitutions modifications changes and omissions may be made in the design operating conditions and arrangement of the exemplary embodiments without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure include program products comprising machine readable media for carrying or having machine executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such machine readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example such machine readable media can include RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of machine executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a machine the machine properly views the connection as a machine readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a machine readable medium. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of machine readable media. Machine executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be carried out using a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some implementations a server transmits data e.g. configuration data to a client device e.g. for purposes of configuring the client device and or customizing images and or data displayed on the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

