---

title: System for monitoring and recording patient vital signs
abstract: A patient vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus for obtaining patient vital sign measurements and recording the vital sign measurements in an electronic medical record is disclosed. A user interface module receives a range of acceptable vital sign measurements and a schedule of how often to record the vital sign measurements. A monitor interface module obtains from a telemetry monitoring system vital sign measurements associated with the patient in accordance with the schedule. An alarm reporting module generates an alarm if the obtained vital sign measurements are outside the range of acceptable vital sign measurements. An interpretation module, in response obtaining the vital sign measurements, causes automatically records the obtained vital sign measurements in an electronic medical record associated with the patient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09465914&OS=09465914&RS=09465914
owner: 
number: 09465914
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140715
---
The present application is directed to a system for monitoring and recording vital signs of a patient in particular a system for recording the vital signs of the patient in an electronic medical record associated with the patient.

When a patient is admitted into a hospital a medical professional obtains measurements of the vital signs of the patient. Such vital sign measurements may include body temperature blood pressure blood oxygen level heart rate an electrocardiogram measurement and the like. Such vital sign measurements are recorded into a medical record associated with the patient. Such electronic record may be a paper based chart into which the medical professional documents the vital sign measurements. However such paper based chart records are being replaced with electronic medial records EMR stored in a central computer or server associated with the hospital. The medical professional may use a computer to add the vital signs measurements in the EMR.

A patient telemetry monitoring system may also be used to measure vital signs of the patient. Typically such a telemetry monitoring system includes sensors secured to the patient that continuously monitor the vital signs thereof. The measurements from the sensors are displayed on a monitor used by the medical professional for example at a nurse s station or documentation station. Typically at periodic intervals a nurse records into a patient s EMR measurements displayed by the telemetry monitoring system. In addition if one or more vital sign measurements change suddenly e.g. if a pulse rate changes significantly or an EKG indicates a problematic heart rhythm the telemetry monitoring system may generate an alarm to notify the nurse of the change in the vital measurements. The nurse thereafter generates a printed record of the vital signs reported by the telemetry monitoring system and enters the printed record into the medical record associated with the patient if a chart based medical record is being used. If the medical record is an EMR the nurse may scan the printed record and upload the scan of the printed record into the EMR database. Also if the telemetry readings need to be sent to a physician for evaluation the nurse may send the scan for example by e mail or fax the printed record to the physician.

One nurse in a hospital may be responsible for several patients and have to periodically record vital sign measurements associated with each patient into a medical record of such patient. The periodic recordation of vital sign measurements may be required because of nursing best practices hospital policy and or hospital compliance organizations. Delays in such recordal may occur if there are other more urgent tasks the nurse has to perform. In case of such delay the nurse may add the vital signs measurements into the medical record associated with a patient when the other tasks are completed. Such a delay may introduce a gap in the vital sign information available to the nurse or the physician attending to the patient.

If an alarm is generated by the telemetry monitoring system with respect to the vital signs measurement of a patient when the nurse is attending to another patient the vital signs measurement at the time of the alarm may not be available for entry into the EMR associated with the patient.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure a computer implemented system for obtaining patient vital sign measurements and recording the vital sign measurements in an electronic medical record includes a vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus an electronic interface to a telemetry monitoring system and an alarm device. A user interface module of the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus receives a range of acceptable vital sign measurements and a schedule of how often to record the vital sign measurements. A monitor interface module of the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus automatically obtains from a telemetry monitoring system vital sign measurements associated with the patient in accordance with the schedule. The alarm reporting module of the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus generates an alarm if the obtained vital sign measurements are outside the range of acceptable vital sign measurements. In response to the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus obtaining the vital sign measurements an interpretation module of the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus automatically records the obtained vital sign measurements in an electronic medical record associated with the patient.

Referring to a patient measurement recording system includes a vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus to obtain vital signs measurements associated with one or more patients from a telemetry monitoring system and automatically records such measurements in a hospital EMR database .

The vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus includes a user interface module that may display information on a display device at a documentation station and or receive input from an input device at the documentation system. A nurse or other medical professional may use such display device or input device at the documentation station to interact with the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus via the user interface module . The display device used to display information from the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus may be used to display vital sign measurements associated with one or more patients from one or more telemetry monitoring systems . Alternately the documentation station may include a separate display for displaying information generated by the telemetry monitoring system .

The display device and the input device at the documentation station may be coupled directly to the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus . Alternately such display device and input device may be coupled to a computer that is in communication with the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus . In this case the user interface module communicates with such computer and directs the computer to display information information on the display device or to receive input from the input device. Although the display device and the input device are described herein as being at the documentation station it should be apparent that such devices may comprise a mobile device that may be used by a nurse or other medical professional to interact with the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus via the user interface module .

A nurse may use the display device and the input device at the documentation station to view and configure monitoring rules for each patient. Such monitoring rules specify how often the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus should obtain periodic measurements from the telemetry monitoring system and records such schedule in an entry associated with the patient in a monitoring schedule database . The monitoring schedule database may include preconfigured monitoring rules and the nurse may use the input device at the documentation station via the user interface module to associate one or more such preconfigured monitoring rules with a patient. In some embodiments the user interface module may allow the nurse to use the input device at the documentation station to select a plurality of patients and specify a monitoring rule that is common to each of the plurality of patients. In some embodiments the monitoring schedule database may be preconfigured with default monitoring rules that are applied to all patients. In some cases the nurse may use input device at the documentation station via the user interface module to modify a pre configured rule for a particular patient in accordance with the needs of such patient.

In some embodiments the user interface module may also allow the nurse to view on the display at the documentation station vital sign measurements acquired by the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus .

The user interface module may also allow the nurse to use the input device at the documentation station to specify for each patient ranges of vital sign measurements that are acceptable. Such ranges may be specified in accordance with standard ranges known in the art based on the vital signs measurements taken when the patient was admitted to the hospital historical ranges associated with a patient e.g. if patient has been admitted to the hospital multiple times and the like. Such vital sign range information is also recorded in the entry associated with the patient in the monitoring schedule database .

After the monitoring rules and acceptable range information for a patient are stored in the monitoring schedule database a monitor interface module of the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus periodically retrieves vital sign measurements from the telemetry monitoring system in accordance with the monitoring rules. Thereafter the monitor interface module stores the retrieved vital sign measurements into an entry associated with the patient in the hospital EMR database .

The monitor interface module may also provide the retrieved vital sign measurements to an alarm reporting module of the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus . The alarm reporting module compares the vital sign measurements of the patient with the acceptable ranges for such vital sign measurements. If the alarm reporting module determines that any of the retrieved vital sign measurements are outside of the acceptable range for such vital sign measurement the alarm reporting module generates an alarm signal that actuates an alarm device. The alarm device may be an audible alarm generated on a speaker coupled to the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus and or a speaker coupled to the documentation station. The alarm device may also be a visual alarm for example an illumination device coupled to the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus and or an illumination device coupled to the documentation station . Other devices and methods that may be used to generate an alarm to notify the nurse will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

In some cases the monitor interface module may determine that the telemetry monitoring system has generated an alarm. For example the monitor interface module may detect an indication of such alarm in the retrieved vital sign measurements or may detect a visual or aural alarm. In such cases the monitor interface module may automatically retrieve vital sign measurements from the telemetry monitoring system and record such retrieved vital sign measurements in the entry associated with the patient in the EMR database . A physician or other medical practitioner may then access such recorded vital sign measurements remotely in response to the alarm generated by the telemetry monitoring system .

An interpretation module of the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus may interpret vital sign measurements and to develop interpreted information and store such information in the entry associated with the patient in the hospital EMR database . For example the interpretation module may analyze the waveform in an electrocardiogram EKG strip to determine if the waveform indicates a heart block and if so determine the severity 1st degree 2nd degree or 3rd degree of such heart block. The waveform on the EKG strip may also be analyzed to determine if the patient is undergoing ventricular fibrillation or another condition that affects the performance of the heart. In some embodiments the interpretation module may use the user interface module to display at the documentation station the interpreted information developed thereby. The user interface module may display a prompt on the display device at the documentation station to request the nurse to verify the interpreted information and if necessary correct and or annotate the interpreted information. The nurse may use the input device at the documentation station to provide such verification correction and or annotation. After the nurse has verified the interpreted information the interpretation module automatically stores the vital sign measurements a timestamp indicating when the vital sign measurements were acquired the interpreted information and any corrections or annotations made by the nurse in an entry associated with the patient in the hospital EMR database .

In some embodiments the interpretation module may analyze a measurement provided by the monitor interface module and measurements and or interpretation information associated with the patient previously stored in the hospital EMR database to determine how the condition of the patient may be changing over time. The interpretation module also records such interpretation information associated with changes in the condition of the patient in the EMR database .

If the interpretation module determines that the patient requires immediate attention the interpretation module may signal the alarm reporting module to generate an alarm as noted above.

By periodically retrieving and recording patient vital sign measurements and interpreting such measurements as necessary the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus allows a nurse to care for patients who are in need of attention from the nurse. Further the nurse does not have to periodically stop other tasks to collect and record patient vital sign measurements. The p vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus interrupts the nurse for example by generating an alarm when the vital sign measurements of the patient indicate that attention by the nurse is necessary.

Referring once again to the user interface module the monitor interface module the alarm reporting module and the interpretation module may be computer implemented and include a combination of hardware and or software components. In one example the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus may comprise a computer that includes non transitory computer readable memory in which computer executable instructions may be stored. One or more processors associated with the computer may execute such computer executable instructions to cause the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus to undertake the functions of these modules.

The vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus may be implemented on one or more computers. In some embodiments the modules of the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus herein may comprise computer executable instructions stored on a non transitory storage medium and such instructions may cause one or more processors of the computer s to undertake the functions of such modules.

Referring to a flowchart shows steps undertaken by the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus to configure measurement rules and acceptable ranges for a patient. At block the user interface module generates and displays on the documentation station a user interface that a nurse may use to enter configuration information that includes measurement rules that indicates how often vital signs should be recorded and acceptable ranges for such vital signs. The user interface module at block receives the configuration information entered by the nurse at the documentation station . At block the user interface module stores the received configuration information in an entry associated with the patient in the monitoring schedule database at block . In some embodiments the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus updates an entry in the hospital EMR database associated with the patient to indicate that the configuration information has been received and stored.

Referring to a flowchart shows steps undertaken periodically by the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus to obtain and record vital sign measurements associated with one or more patients. At block the monitor interface module queries the monitoring schedule database for a list of patients whose vital sign measurements should be retrieved and recorded. At block the monitor interface module selects one of the patients from the list of patients.

The monitor interface module retrieves from the telemetry monitoring system vital sign measurements for the selected patient at block . In some embodiments the monitor interface module may communicate with the telemetry monitoring system using an electronic interface between the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus . In some embodiments such electronic interface includes a network over which the vital sign measurements may be communicated from the telemetry monitoring system to the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus . Such communication may be facilitated for example by an application programming interface API associated with the telemetry monitoring system . In other embodiments the monitor interface module may use the electronic interface to monitor communications between the telemetry monitoring system and a display associated therewith on which the vital sign measurements are presented. In still other embodiments the monitor interface module may use the electronic interface to capture an image that represents contents shown on such display and analyze such image to extract the vital sign measurements. Other ways of obtaining the vital sign measurements from the telemetry monitoring system will be apparent to those who have skill in the art.

At block the alarm reporting module obtains from the monitoring and schedule database the acceptable ranges for vital sign measurements associated with the selected patient. Then at block the alarm reporting module compares the vital sign measurements obtained at block with the acceptable ranges retrieved at block to determine if any of the obtained measurements are outside of a corresponding range for such measurement. If no measurement is outside the corresponding range execution proceeds to block . Otherwise the alarm reporting module generates an alarm at block and execution proceeds to block .

At block the interpretation module analyzes the vital sign measurements obtained at block to develop interpreted information. Thereafter at block the interpretation module determines if a nurse needs to verify the interpreted information and if so execution proceeds to block . Otherwise execution proceeds to block . In some embodiments the nurse may need to verify the interpreted information if a predetermined amount of time has elapsed since the nurse has verified any acquired information. In other embodiments the nurse may need to verify the interpreted information if the interpretation module determines that the vital sign measurements obtained at block warrant a nurses attention.

At block the user interface module displays on the documentation station the interpreted information and obtains from a nurse verification of the interpreted information any corrections to the interpreted information and or any annotations entered by the nurse.

At block the interpretation module updates the entry in the hospital EMR database associated with the patient selected at block . In particular the interpretation module stores in such entry the vital sign measurements obtained at block a timestamp of when such vital sign measurements were obtained the interpreted information developed at block and any modifications or annotations entered by the nurse at block .

At block the monitor interface module checks if vital sign measurements for all of the patients in the list of patients retrieved at block have been retrieved and recorded. If not execution proceeds to block to select another patient.

In some embodiments the telemetry monitoring system may generate an alarm condition if a vital sign monitored thereby becomes critical e.g. if the heart rate or oxygen concentration of a patient drops to a dangerous level . The vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus may monitor the telemetry monitoring system for any such alarms and in response retrieve and record vital sign measurements when such alarm is generated.

Referring to a flowchart shows the steps undertaken by the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus in response to an alarm generated by the telemetry monitoring system . At block the monitor interface module obtains vital sign measurements from the telemetry monitoring system . The interpretation module analyzes the vital sign measurements to develop the interpreted information as described above. At block the interpretation module determines if a nurse or other medical professional needs to verify the interpreted information and if so execution proceeds to block . Otherwise execution proceeds to block .

At block the user interface displays the interpreted information on the documentation station and allows the nurse or other medical professional to verify modify and or annotate such information as described above. Execution then proceeds to block .

At block the interpretation module updates the entry in the hospital EMR database of the patient associated with the alarm generated by telemetry monitoring system with the vital sign measurements obtained at block a timestamp of when such vital sign measurements were obtained the interpreted information developed at block and any modifications or annotations made by the nurse or other medical professional at block .

Referring to A and B in one embodiment the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus may at block or at block obtain from the telemetry monitoring system vital sign measurements that include for example a representation of an EKG . In some cases the telemetry monitoring system may provide an image representation of the EKG and the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus may analyze such image representation to develop a plurality of data points that represent the EKG . In other cases the telemetry monitoring system may provide the plurality of data points that represent the EKG . At block or block the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus may analyze the plurality of data points that represent the EKG and determine if the electrocardiogram indicates that the heart rhythm of the patient associated with such electrocardiogram is outside of acceptable ranges. In particular the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus may analyze the data points that represent portion and associated with P Q R S T and U waves respectively that comprise the EKG to determine if the levels of such portions are within acceptable ranges. If the levels of these portions and are within acceptable ranges at block or block the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus records such levels and optionally the EKG in the EMR record associated with the patient.

As would be recognized by one of skill in the art illustrates an EKG that has portions and that may be considered with acceptable ranges.

Although show representations of EKGs and that may be analyzed by the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus EKGs that represent other conditions may be analyzed by the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus in a manner similar to that described above. Further it should be apparent to those who have skill in the art that other types of vital sign measurements may be analyzed by the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus in a similar manner.

It will be understood and appreciated that the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus may include hardware software or a combination of hardware and software on one or more electronic or digitally controlled devices. The software may reside in a software memory in a suitable electronic processing component or system such as for example one or more of the functional systems controllers devices components modules or sub modules. The software memory may include an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions that is logic that may be implemented in digital form such as digital circuitry or source code or in analog form such as analog source such as an analog electrical sound or video signal . The vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus may include for example one or more microprocessors general purpose processors combinations of processors digital signal processors DSPs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific integrated circuits ASICs . The example systems described in this application may be implemented in a variety of configurations and operate as hardware software components in a single hardware software unit or in separate hardware software units.

As described herein the vital sign acquisition and recording apparatus may include a computer and a computer program product having instructions stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium associated therewith and which when executed by a processing module of an electronic system direct the electronic system to carry out the instructions. The computer program product may be selectively embodied in any non transitory computer readable storage medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a electronic computer based system processor containing system or other system that may selectively fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document computer readable storage medium is any non transitory means that may store the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The non transitory computer readable storage medium may selectively be for example an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of non transitory computer readable media include an electrical connection having one or more wires electronic a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access i.e. volatile memory electronic a read only memory electronic an erasable programmable read only memory such as for example Flash memory electronic a compact disc memory such as for example CD ROM CD R CD RW optical and digital versatile disc memory i.e. DVD optical .

It will also be understood that receiving and transmitting of data as used in this document means that two or more systems engines databases devices components modules or sub modules are capable of communicating with each other via signals that travel over some type of signal path. The signals may be communication power data or energy signals which may communicate information power or energy from a first system engine database device component module or sub module to a second system engine database device component module or sub module along a signal path between the first and second system engine database device component module or sub module. The signal paths may include physical electrical magnetic electromagnetic electrochemical optical wired or wireless connections. The signal paths may also include additional systems engines databases devices components modules or sub modules between the first and second system device component module or sub module.

Numerous modifications to the embodiments disclosed herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the foregoing description. Accordingly this description is to be construed as illustrative only and is presented for the purpose of enabling those skilled in the art to make and use the disclosed embodiments and to teach the best mode of carrying out same. The exclusive rights to all modifications that come within the scope of the disclosed embodiments are reserved.

