---

title: Methods for reducing solar inverter output volatility, and related nodes and solar inverters
abstract: Methods for reducing solar inverter output volatility are provided. A method for reducing solar inverter output volatility may include determining whether an output fluctuation by a solar inverter is likely, using output data of the solar inverter. Moreover, the method may include curtailing an output of the solar inverter in response to determining that the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely. Related solar inverters and solar installation nodes are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09507364&OS=09507364&RS=09507364
owner: Duke Energy Corporation
number: 09507364
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140310
---
An injection of solar power generation onto a distribution circuit connected to many customers can cause several disruptions in characteristics of the distribution circuit. For example a rapid and unexpected increase or decrease in solar power output often caused by changes in cloud cover can disrupt normal operations of a distribution circuit and result in out of specification conditions such as a voltage that deviates from a standard.

It should be appreciated that this Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form the concepts being further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of this disclosure nor is it intended to limit the scope of the present inventive concepts.

Various embodiments of the present inventive concepts include a method for reducing solar inverter output volatility. The method may include determining whether an output fluctuation by a solar inverter is likely using output data of the solar inverter. Moreover the method may include curtailing an output of the solar inverter in response to determining that the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely. In some embodiments determining whether the output fluctuation is likely may include determining a likelihood of the output fluctuation by the solar inverter using the output data of the solar inverter and comparing the likelihood of the output fluctuation by the solar inverter with a threshold. In some embodiments the output data of the solar inverter may include real time and or past output data of the solar inverter and determining whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely may include determining whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely using the real time and or past output data of the solar inverter.

According to various embodiments the output fluctuation may include a future output fluctuation and determining whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely may include determining whether the future output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely using the real time and or past output data of the solar inverter. Moreover determining whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely may include determining whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely using the real time and or past output data of the solar inverter independently of any measurement or detection by a cloud cover sensor or another inverter.

In various embodiments the method may include measuring the real time and or past output data of the solar inverter by measuring power that is output by the solar inverter and determining whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely may include determining whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely using only the real time and or past output data of the solar inverter. In some embodiments the real time and or past output data of the solar inverter may include at least one discrete value of real time and or past output of the solar inverter and determining whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely may include determining whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely using only the at least one discrete value of real time and or past output of the solar inverter.

According to various embodiments determining whether the output fluctuation is likely may include determining a volatility difference for the solar inverter. The volatility difference may include a ratio between an end to end straight linear distance corresponding to a graphical representation of power output by the solar inverter over a time period and a summation of a plurality of linear distances corresponding to the graphical representation of power output by the solar inverter over a plurality of respective sub time periods of the time period. Moreover operations of determining whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely and curtailing the output of the solar inverter may be self contained within the solar inverter.

In various embodiments determining whether an output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely may include generating at a node of a solar installation that includes the solar inverter the output data of the solar inverter by measuring power that is output by the solar inverter determining at the node whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely using the output data of the solar inverter. Moreover curtailing the output of the solar inverter may include transmitting a curtailment command to limit the output of the solar inverter from the node to the solar inverter in response to determining that the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely.

According to various embodiments the method may include gradually reducing an amount of curtailment of the output of the solar inverter. Additionally or alternatively determining whether the output fluctuation is likely may include determining whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely independently of Maximum Power Point Tracking for the solar inverter.

A node of a solar installation according to various embodiments may include a processor configured to generate output data by measuring power that is output by a solar inverter of the solar installation. The processor may be configured to determine whether an output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely using the output data from the solar inverter. Moreover the processor may be configured to transmit to the solar inverter a curtailment command to limit the output of the solar inverter in response to determining that the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely. In some embodiments the processor may be configured to determine whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely by determining a likelihood of the output fluctuation by the solar inverter using the output data from the solar inverter and comparing the likelihood of the output fluctuation by the solar inverter with a threshold. In some embodiments the output data of the solar inverter may include real time and or past output data of the solar inverter and the processor may be configured to determine whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely using the real time and or past output data of the solar inverter.

According to various embodiments the output fluctuation may include a future output fluctuation and the processor may be configured to determine whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely by determining whether the future output fluctuation by the solar inverter is likely using the real time and or past output data of the solar inverter. In some embodiments the processor may be configured to determine whether the output fluctuation is likely by determining a volatility difference for the solar inverter. The volatility difference may include a ratio between an end to end straight linear distance corresponding to a graphical representation of solar output by the solar inverter over a time period and a summation of a plurality of linear distances corresponding to the graphical representation of solar output by the solar inverter over a plurality of respective sub time periods of the time period.

A solar inverter according to various embodiments may include circuitry configured to provide a power output. Moreover the solar inverter may include a processor configured to receive from a node of a solar installation that includes the solar inverter a curtailment command to preemptively limit the power output of the solar inverter in advance of a likely fluctuation of the power output. The processor may be configured to preemptively limit the power output of the solar inverter in advance of the likely fluctuation of the power output in response to the curtailment command from the node of the solar installation. In some embodiments the processor may be configured to receive the curtailment command directly from the node via a message bus that is within the solar installation.

A solar inverter according to various embodiments may include circuitry configured to provide a power output. Moreover the solar inverter may include a processor configured to determine whether a fluctuation of the power output is likely using real time and or past output data for the solar inverter. The processor may be configured to preemptively limit the power output of the solar inverter in advance of the fluctuation of the power output in response to determining that the fluctuation of the power output is likely. In some embodiments the processor may be configured to determine whether the fluctuation is likely by determining a volatility difference for the solar inverter. The volatility difference may include a ratio between an end to end straight linear distance corresponding to a graphical representation of solar output by the solar inverter over a time period and a summation of a plurality of linear distances corresponding to the graphical representation of solar output by the solar inverter over a plurality of respective sub time periods of the time period.

It is noted that aspects of the present inventive concepts described with respect to one embodiment may be incorporated in a different embodiment although not specifically described relative thereto. That is all embodiments and or features of any embodiment can be combined in any way and or combination. Applicants reserve the right to change any originally filed claim or file any new claim accordingly including the right to be able to amend any originally filed claim to depend from and or incorporate any feature of any other claim although not originally claimed in that manner. These and other objects and or aspects of the present inventive concepts are explained in detail below.

Specific example embodiments of the present inventive concepts now will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The present inventive concepts may however be embodied in a variety of different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the present inventive concepts to those skilled in the art. In the drawings like designations refer to like elements. It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected coupled or responsive to another element it can be directly connected coupled or responsive to the other element or intervening elements may be present. Furthermore connected coupled or responsive as used herein may include wirelessly connected coupled or responsive.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present inventive concepts. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless expressly stated otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes comprises including and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. The symbol is also used as a shorthand notation for and or. 

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which these inventive concepts belong. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and the present disclosure and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be understood that although the terms first and second may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another element. Thus a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element may be termed a first element without departing from the teachings of the present inventive concepts.

Example embodiments of the present inventive concepts may be embodied as nodes devices and methods. Accordingly example embodiments of the present inventive concepts may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. . Furthermore example embodiments of the present inventive concepts may take the form of a computer program product comprising a non transitory computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM . Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Example embodiments of the present inventive concepts are described herein with reference to flowchart and or block diagram illustrations. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart and or block diagram illustrations and combinations of blocks in the flowchart and or block diagram illustrations may be implemented by computer program instructions and or hardware operations. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer a special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means and or circuits for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer usable or computer readable memory that may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer usable or computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions that implement the functions specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

If a solar inverter s power output is volatile then this volatility can disrupt operations by a distribution circuit coupled to the solar inverter. Moreover using sensors to detect and react to such solar inverter volatility can be expensive and complex. Various embodiments described herein however may reduce solar inverter output volatility by directly measuring real time and or past power output by a solar inverter and then preemptively curtailing the solar inverter s output based on the probability of future subsequent rapid output fluctuations. As an example various embodiments described herein may look at the real time and or past solar output itself to predict cloud cover instead of detecting cloud cover using a sensor such as a camera. In other words the probability of a future impact may be calculated based on real time and or past performance and a solar inverter may preemptively curtail its output based on this probability to reduce output volatility. Accordingly various embodiments described herein may provide a less volatile power output for a solar inverter generator thus enabling the solar inverter generator to be a more valuable contributor to a grid of interconnected generation resources.

Referring now to a schematic illustration is provided of a solar inverter S that provides output power or power output P to a distribution network circuit connected to many customers. For example the solar inverter S may provide the output power P to an electric grid that may include any number of electric grid devices E. Additionally or alternatively the solar inverter S may provide the output power P to a local off grid electrical network.

One or more communication nodes C may communicate with the electric grid devices E using wireless communications e.g. 3G LTE other cellular WiFi etc. or wired communications e.g. Power Line Carrier PLC Ethernet serial Universal Serial Bus USB etc. . An electric grid device E may be for example an electric utility meter a transformer a light e.g. a street light an electric grid control device an electric grid protection device a recloser a line sensor a weather sensor an Advanced Metering Infrastructure AMI device an analog or digital sensor connected to an electric utility asset an electric generator an electric turbine an electric boiler an electric vehicle a home appliance a battery storage device a capacitor device a solar power device a smart generation device an intelligent switching device an emission monitoring device or a voltage regulator.

Moreover one or more of the communication nodes C may communicate with a head end system H of an electric utility data center via a communication network . The communication network may include one or more wireless or wired communication networks such as a local area network e.g. Ethernet or WiFi or a Wide Area Network e.g. a cellular network Ethernet or a fiber such as fiber optic network .

Referring still to a solar installation that includes the solar inverter S may also include a node N that may provide communications with the solar inverter S and or the communication network . The node N may measure the output power P of the solar inverter S and may responsively transmit a curtailment command CC to curtail the output power P. The term curtail may be used herein to describe reducing or limiting the output power P of the solar inverter S to reduce limit or avoid volatility of the output power P. Moreover in some embodiments the node N of the solar installation may be a communication node C.

Referring now to a block diagram is provided of a communication node C of according to various embodiments. The communication node C may include a processor a network interface and a memory . The processor of the communication node C may be coupled to the network interface . The processor may be configured to communicate with electric grid devices E other communication nodes C the solar inverter S the node N and or the electric utility data center via the network interface .

For example the network interface may include one or more wireless interfaces e.g. 3G LTE other cellular WiFi Global Positioning System GPS interfaces etc. and one or more physical interfaces e.g. Ethernet serial Universal Serial Bus USB interfaces etc. . Moreover the network interface may optionally include one or more power line interfaces e.g. Low Voltage LV or Mid Voltage MV PLC .

Referring still to the memory may be coupled to the processor . The memory may also store instructions algorithms used by the processor . The communication node C may include core hardware components such as a power supply 400 MHz or higher speed processor s and 256 Megabytes MB or more of RAM.

The communication node C may include core applications such as CPU memory OS management applications port device drivers router Internet Protocol IP services network management services basic protocol support SCADA custom Application Programming Interface API applications and device security services. Moreover the communication node C may include virtual applications such as a virtual machine e.g. a Java Virtual Machine message bus es message broker s protocol adapters mini SCADA open standards API and third party applications e.g. security analytics applications . The core applications may use such software as C Linux and the virtual applications may use such software as Java Linux.

Referring now to a block diagram is provided that illustrates details of an example processor and memory of a communication node C that may be used in accordance with various embodiments. The processor communicates with the memory via an address data bus . The processor may be for example a commercially available or custom microprocessor. Moreover the processor may include multiple processors. The memory is representative of the overall hierarchy of memory devices containing the software and data used to implement various functions of a communication node C or a node N as described herein. The memory may include but is not limited to the following types of devices cache ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM flash Static RAM SRAM and Dynamic RAM DRAM .

As shown in the memory may hold various categories of software and data such as an operating system . The operating system controls operations of a communication node C. In particular the operating system may manage the resources of the communication node C and may coordinate execution of various programs by the processor .

Referring now to a block diagram is provided of a solar inverter S of according to various embodiments. The solar inverter S may include power output circuitry and may optionally include a processor and or a memory . The power output circuitry may include for example various types of circuitry configured to convert a direct current DC output of a photovoltaic PV solar panel into a utility frequency alternating current AC that can be fed into a commercial electrical grid e.g. the grid or used by a local off grid electrical network. For example the power output circuitry may be configured to provide the power Output P illustrated in .

Referring now to flowcharts are provided illustrating operations for reducing solar inverter output volatility according to various embodiments. Referring to operations for reducing solar inverter output volatility may include determining Block whether an output fluctuation by a solar inverter S is likely using output data of the solar inverter S. For example the operations of Block may include calculating the probability of future output intermittency using information that is local to the solar inverter S e.g. using actual real time and or past performance data for the solar inverter S measured in kilowatts or another discrete value . Moreover the operations may include curtailing Block an output P of the solar inverter S in response to determining that the output fluctuation by the solar inverter S is likely. For example the operations of Block may preemptively curtail the power output P of the solar inverter S based on the probability likelihood of future rapid output fluctuations.

Referring to operations of determining Block whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter S is likely may include measuring Block A real time and or past power P that is output by the solar inverter S. The operations of determining Block whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter S is likely may include determining Block B a likelihood of the output fluctuation by the solar inverter S using data corresponding to the real time and or past power output P of the solar inverter S. Moreover the operations of determining Block whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter S is likely may include comparing Block C the likelihood of the output fluctuation by the solar inverter S with a threshold.

Referring still to operations for reducing solar inverter output volatility may optionally include gradually relaxing reducing Block the curtailment Block of the output power P of the solar inverter S.

Referring to operations of determining Block B the likelihood of the output fluctuation by the solar inverter S may include determining Block B a volatility difference for the solar inverter S. Moreover operations of comparing Block C the likelihood of the output fluctuation by the solar inverter S with a threshold may include comparing Block C the volatility difference with a limit threshold.

Referring to the operations of may be performed by the node N e.g. using the processor of the solar installation . For example operations of measuring Block A real time and or past power output P of the solar inverter S may include generating Block A at the node N output data for the solar inverter S by measuring the real time and or past power P that is output by the solar inverter S. Moreover the operations of curtailing Blocks the output P of the solar inverter S may include transmitting Block a curtailment command CC to limit the output P of the solar inverter S from the node N to the solar inverter S in response to determining Blocks B C that the output fluctuation by the solar inverter S is likely. The inventive entity appreciates however that operations of determining Block whether the output fluctuation by the solar inverter S is likely and curtailing Blocks the power output P of the solar inverter S may be self contained within the solar inverter S e.g. may be performed using the processor in some embodiments.

In embodiments where volatility curtailment operations are self contained within the solar inverter S the solar inverter S may preemptively self limit reduce its own power output P in advance of a likely fluctuation of the power output P in response to determining that the fluctuation of the power output P is likely. In embodiments where volatility curtailment operations are controlled managed by the node N of the solar installation that includes the solar inverter S the solar inverter S may be configured to receive from the node N a curtailment command CC to preemptively limit reduce the power output P of the solar inverter S in advance of a likely fluctuation of the power output P. The solar inverter S may then preemptively limit reduce the power output P of the solar inverter S in advance of the likely fluctuation of the power output P in response to the curtailment command CC from the node N of the solar installation . In some embodiments the solar inverter S may receive the curtailment command CC directly from the node N via a message bus that is within the solar installation .

The operations illustrated in can reduce system cost and complexity because these operations may be independent of cloud cover detection or other forms of using external sensors other solar inverters for detection measurement of solar output volatility. Because such sensors are optional the difficulty of predicting the impact of events detected by the sensors may also be avoided reduced. Additionally or alternatively the operations illustrated in can be performed independently of Maximum Power Point Tracking MPPT operations but could be performed concurrently with MPPT operations in some embodiments. Accordingly in some embodiments operations of determining Block whether an output fluctuation by a solar inverter S is likely may be performed by either the solar inverter S or the node N within a solar installation that includes the solar inverter S using only real time and or past output data of e.g. using at least one discrete value thereof that specific solar inverter S.

Moreover in some embodiments a particular solar inverter S may self curtail as described herein and may also send a curtailment command CC which is based on the particular solar inverter S s power output P to adjacent solar inverters S. For example operations of Block of may include sending the curtailment command CC to adjacent solar inverters S as well as using the curtailment command CC with the particular solar inverter S. The adjacent solar inverters S may then curtail based on this curtailment command CC without running an algorithm to independently provide a curtailment command CC themselves. Accordingly the power output P of a single solar array may act as a proxy for the power output P of multiple adjacent solar arrays. The curtailment command CC provided by an algorithm for the particular solar inverter S may therefore be provided to multiple adjacent solar inverters S.

The operations illustrated in can be used to make decisions based on a measurement of power output P at a specific generator e.g. a specific solar inverter S . For example the operations can provide self curtailing at a specific solar inverter S rather than using an external e.g. external to the solar installation device that reacts to the solar inverter S. In some embodiments the operations can be performed for a single solar inverter S. In some embodiments an algorithm that controls executes the operations could be installed on a plurality of solar inverters S and the plurality of solar inverts S could run the algorithm independently of each other.

Referring now to a schematic illustration is provided of a solar inverter S that receives a command CC to curtail its power output P according to various embodiments. For example illustrates that the solar inverter S provides e.g. via a message bus an active power output P with a discrete kilowatt kW value to a platform that executes operations described herein for reducing solar inverter output volatility. As an example the platform may host an algorithm that provides the operations illustrated in . In particular the platform may receive the active power output P as an input and may responsively generate and transmit the curtailment command CC to the solar inverter S using the algorithm. The platform is located at the solar installation . In some embodiments the platform may be included in the node N that is illustrated in .

Referring now to a graph is provided that illustrates a volatility difference of a solar inverter S according to various embodiments. Referring again to Block B of determining a volatility difference of a solar inverter S is one way to calculate a probability that a future output power fluctuation by the solar inverter S is likely. In other words various embodiments described herein can be used to determine that a power swing is more likely to occur because certain conditions are met and determining that a power swing is more likely because of a given volatility difference is one example of such embodiments.

The volatility difference volatility A is a ratio between a an end to end trailing linear distance e.g. Length E of the solar power output P over a specified time period called a window and b a summation of the linear distances e.g. Lengths A D of a set of smaller periods within the window as indicated by the following Equation 1 

If solar output P is constant throughout a given window then the volatility difference will equal 1. The volatility difference becomes smaller as solar output P fluctuates more within a given window. The volatility difference will always be between 1 and 0. Linear distance is calculated between any two points as follows in Equation 2. Given two points t kW t kW Linear distance square root over Equation 2 

The below Table 1 indicates user supplied configurable setpoints that can control how the algorithm operations described herein function s . These setpoints make the algorithm operations customizable for many different capacities of solar installations and set the sensitivity and performance characteristics of the algorithm operations.

Referring now to flowcharts are provided illustrating operations that use volatility difference values according to various embodiments. Referring to in some embodiments the active volatility difference may be continuously compared in Block with a user provided setpoint volatility difference limit e.g. the limit in Block C of . The limit may vary based on grid conditions e.g. based on a desired sensitivity level . For example the limit may be set such that if volatility is less than 95 of ideal then the solar inverter S will curtail its power output P.

Operations herein e.g. operations executed using an algorithm subsequently automatically select between two possible volatility differences. Initially and whenever there is not an active curtailment 1 a detection volatility difference is selected as the active volatility difference. If the last period s volatility difference was less than the volatility limit and a curtailment command CC was issued then the active volatility difference becomes 2 a recovery volatility difference.

The detection volatility difference and the recovery volatility difference are calculated the same way. The difference is in the window length. A longer detection window enables the algorithm operations herein to be more sensitive to longer periods of volatility to issue an initial curtailment command CC. Once a curtailment command is issued a shorter recovery window allows the curtailment to be raised sooner in an effort to increase maximize solar energy output P. illustrates determining the active volatility difference using the operations in Blocks A or B and A or B . In some embodiments Block C of may include the operations of .

Referring to the curtailment command CC indicates controls the maximum active power output that the solar inverter S is permitted to discharge at its AC output. Output power P may not exceed this value although it may be below this value. The algorithm operations herein can issue the curtailment command CC when past fluctuations in solar output P provide a variable volatility difference value that is below a user supplied setpoint e.g. the threshold of Block C of . This results in curtailment that makes subsequent fluctuations in solar output P less likely to be seen in the AC output of the solar inverter S and thus by the grid because the fluctuations would likely occur above the curtailed power level.

Initially the curtailment command CC is set as the maximum rated output of the solar inverter S. During the period when the active volatility difference is first lower than the volatility limit the active volatility difference will be the detection volatility difference at this time a curtailment command CC is issued that equals the last period s solar output level less minus the ramp down limit. See Blocks B and A. The curtailment command CC then drops each period until the active volatility difference exceeds the volatility limit now the active volatility difference will be the recovery volatility difference . For each subsequent period where the active volatility difference is greater than the volatility limit the curtailment command CC will be raised by the ramp up limit. See Blocks and A. In some embodiments Blocks and or of may include the operations of .

Referring now to graphs are provided illustrating curtailment of solar inverter power output P according to various embodiments. illustrates one example of results that have been modeled using actual solar output data. The solar output data is from Apr. 8 2012 at a 1 megawatt MW solar plant. The more heavily spiked unmitigated solar kW portions of represent the actual solar output P without the curtailment algorithm operations described herein in place whereas the smoother remaining portions of show the modeled solar output P with the curtailment algorithm operations described herein in place. Algorithm operations setpoints are provided below in Table 2. These configurable setpoints can give a utility operator the ability to adjust the sensitivity of the algorithm operations depending upon grid conditions. Using the solar output data e.g. using a trailing series of the solar output data and incorporating the user specified setpoints the algorithm operations issue s a curtailment command CC to the solar inverter S to limit its maximum active power output.

According to various embodiments described herein volatility curtailment algorithm operations is are designed to detect solar intermittency and to preemptively limit the solar output P of a solar inverter S to reduce the likelihood of subsequent output fluctuations. The algorithm operations monitor s the power output P of the solar inverter S and order s the solar inverter S to curtail its output S when a specified level of power fluctuations are experienced. Various parameters within the algorithm operations are configurable to adjust the sensitivity of the algorithm operations and to manage the balance between intermittency reduction and energy loss through curtailment. Solar installations e.g. the solar installation equipped with the algorithm operations will have a less negative impact on utility circuits to which they are connected.

In particular the volatility curtailment algorithm operations described herein can measure and evaluate past intermittency limit subsequent intermittency via curtailment and slowly release the curtailment command CC as intermittency is reduced. Various embodiments described herein may provide a control algorithm that acts as a supervisor to a solar inverter S and curtails the solar output P. In some embodiments the solar control algorithm can be hosted off board of the solar inverter S. For example it can be hosted on a utility platform and send supervisory signals to a solar inverter S. Alternatively the solar control algorithm can be hosted anywhere else that supports very low latency of communications between measuring solar inverter S power output P and using the algorithm to provide the curtailment command CC. As an example the communication node C illustrated in or some other cloud location device may host the algorithm in some embodiments supporting such very low latency.

Moreover the present inventive entity appreciates that the volatility curtailment algorithm operations described herein provide s for looking at how to influence solar output P for a reason e.g. balance reduced volatility other than merely achieving more maximum power output. In particular by exchanging some energy output for less output volatility the algorithm operations can make solar generation less likely to negatively impact e.g. by creating rapid output fluctuations a utility circuit. The algorithm operations may thus enable more solar power to be connected to utility circuits where solar capacity was previously limited.

In the specification various embodiments of the present inventive concepts have been disclosed and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible for the disclosed embodiments without materially departing from the teachings and advantages of the present inventive concepts. The present inventive concepts are defined by the following claims with equivalents of the claims to be included therein.

