---

title: Autonomous cargo delivery system
abstract: The present invention is directed to a system and methods of providing platform-agnostic systems and methods capable of providing an integrated processor and sensor suite with supervisory control software and interfaces to perform small unit rapid response resupply and CASEVAC into hazardous and unpredictable environments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09557742&OS=09557742&RS=09557742
owner: Aurora Flight Sciences Corporation
number: 09557742
owner_city: Manassas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141126
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 909 471 filed on Nov. 27 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Contract Number N00014 12 C 0671 awarded by United States Navy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is directed to systems and methods for enabling unmanned and optionally manned cargo delivery to widely separated small units in demanding and unpredictable conditions.

Recent expeditionary operations in Afghanistan and Iraq uncovered a need for resupply and casualty evacuation CASEVAC of small units in the field under hazardous conditions and with minimal infrastructure. These conditions are common to a variety of mission sets such as humanitarian relief operations noncombatant evacuations routine cargo resupply underway replenishment irregular warfare and sustained conventional combat. In order to support robust rapid resupply and CASEVAC operations in dynamic threat environments where the warfighter has the most urgent need for these services a number of new and innovative capabilities have been developed.

For example U.S. Pat. No. 8 260 736 discloses an intelligent system manager system and method for managing and controlling a platform comprising a management component providing intelligent decision support and managing platform functions responsive to data representative of the platform and equipment thereof an execution and monitor component for causing execution of commands controlling the platform and equipment thereof and monitoring the execution of the commands and the status of platform sensors and platform equipment a display component providing information representative of the current state of the platform and receiving input and a common services component providing processing services to the management component to the execution and monitor component and to the display component.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 265 818 discloses a command and control system including a core unit with a processor and a map display engine. The core unit is configured to exchange information with a multi domain heterogeneous unmanned vehicle command and control module a multi sensor command and control module and an asset tracking module. The asset tracking module estimates the location of an indeterminate object. A control unit exchanges information with an input device. A detecting unit detects modules that are associated with the core unit. A subscription unit logs parameters associated with the detected modules and determines types of data to send to the detected units based on the parameters. A script unit receives and implements command and control scripts for the detected modules. A display output provides display information of a combined representation of information from the detected modules and map information including locations of the vehicles and sensors under control and the estimated location of the indeterminate object.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 948 681 discloses a modular automated air transport system comprising an unmanned autonomous vehicle having a selectively detachable control systems portion and a structural air frame portion wherein the structural air frame portion contains an interior cargo hold aerodynamic members having control surfaces and at least one propulsion device attached to the structural air frame portion and wherein the control system portion includes a control computer for autonomously controlling the flight of said air transport system from one known location to a second known location.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 437 890 discloses various types and levels of operator assistance performed within a unified configurable framework. A model of the device with a model of the environment and the current state of the device and the environment may be used to iteratively generate a sequence of optimal device control inputs that when applied to a model of the device generates an optimal device trajectory through a constraint bounded corridor or region within the stated space. This optimal trajectory and the sequence of device control inputs that generates it are used to generate a threat assessment metric. An appropriate type and level of operator assistance is generated based on this threat assessment. Operator assistance modes include warnings decision support operator feedback vehicle stability control and autonomous or semi autonomous hazard avoidance. The responses generated by each assistance mode are mutually consistent because they are generated using the same optimal trajectory.

The article entitled The NASA Army Autonomous Rotorcraft Project to M. Whalley provides an overview of the NASA Ames Research Center Autonomous Rotorcraft Project ARP . Similarly the article entitled What Is an Open Architecture Robot Controller to Ford addresses the issue of what an open architecture robot controller is.

Despite the foregoing a need exists for a platform agnostic solution for an aerial vehicle e.g. a Vertical Take Off and Landing VTOL aerial vehicle capable of providing an integrated processor and sensor suite with supervisory control interfaces to perform small unit rapid response resupply and CASEVAC into hazardous and unpredictable environments.

The present invention provides platform agnostic systems and methods capable of providing an integrated processor and sensor suite with supervisory control interfaces to perform small unit rapid response resupply and CASEVAC into hazardous and unpredictable environments. More specifically the present invention provides an Autonomous Aerial Cargo Utility AACU system.

According to a first aspect an autonomous aerial system comprises an aerial vehicle configured to communicate with an operating base wherein said aerial vehicle is configured to receive mission plan data from said operating base and a supervisory control system operatively coupled with the aerial vehicle wherein the supervisory control system is configured to generate flight control signals data based on data gathered by a sensor package the sensor package configured to 1 detect obstacles and 2 perceive physical features of an unprepared landing zone wherein the supervisory control system is configured to communicate the flight control signal data to the aerial vehicle and wherein said aerial vehicle is configured to autonomously navigate to and touchdown at the unprepared landing zone based at least in part on 1 said mission plan data and 2 said flight control signal data.

According to a second aspect a supervisory control system for controlling an aerial vehicle comprises a sensor package configured to 1 detect obstacles and 2 perceive physical features of an unprepared landing zone and a processor operatively coupled with an aerial vehicle via a control interface wherein said processor communicates mission plan data from an operating base to said aerial vehicle via the control interface wherein the processor generates flight control signal data using data collected via the sensor package wherein the processor is configured to communicate the flight control signal data to the aerial vehicle via the control interface and wherein said processor enables said aerial vehicle to autonomously navigate to and touchdown at the unprepared landing zone based at least in part on 1 said mission plan data and 2 said flight control signal data.

In certain aspects said mission plan data may comprise one or more routes and a designated touchdown zone within said unprepared landing zone.

In certain aspects said mission plan data may further comprise a first contingency operation and a second contingency operation.

In certain aspects said one or more routes may comprise 1 a launch route 2 an approach route and 3 a flight route.

In certain aspects said supervisory control system may be configured to determine using said sensor package whether the designated touchdown zone is feasible based at least in part on a physical characteristic of the designated touchdown zone.

In certain aspects said supervisory control system may be configured to identify one or more alternate touchdown zones within said unprepared landing zone if said supervisory control system does not determine that the designated touchdown zone is feasible.

In certain aspects said one or more alternate touchdown zones are communicated to an operator at the operating base for approval.

In certain aspects the sensor package includes 1 a radio altimeter 2 electro optical and or infrared imagers and 3 a light detection and ranging device.

In certain aspects the sensor package includes 1 a radio detection and ranging device and 2 a global positioning system device.

In certain aspects the supervisory control system may be operatively coupled with the aerial vehicle via an interface conforming to Open Architecture standards.

In certain aspects said mission plan data may comprise at least one route in accordance with North Atlantic Treaty Organization Standardization Agreement 4586.

In certain aspects the supervisory control system may utilize a modular open architecture sensor suite that is physically mounted on the aerial vehicle.

In certain aspects said second contingency operation may be an alternate touchdown zone within said unprepared landing zone.

Embodiments of the present invention will be described hereinbelow with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the following description well known functions or constructions are not described in detail because they would obscure the invention in unnecessary detail. The below described Autonomous Aerial Cargo Utility AACU System provides a modular open architecture including supervisory control software and interfaces and sensors that can be rapidly and cost effectively integrated and physically mounted on a number of different aerial vehicle platforms including Vertical Take Off and Landing VTOL platforms. For this application the following terms and definitions may apply 

As used herein the terms communicate and communicating refer to 1 transmitting or otherwise conveying data from a source to a destination and or 2 delivering data to a communications medium system channel network device wire cable fiber circuit and or link to be conveyed to a destination.

As used herein the term aerial vehicle refers to a machine capable of flight including but not limited to VTOL aircraft. VTOL aircraft may include both fixed wing aircraft e.g. Harrier jets rotorcraft e.g. helicopters and or tilt rotor tilt wing aircraft e.g. the Osprey aircraft .

As used herein the words exemplary and example mean serving as an example instance or illustration. The embodiments described herein are not limiting but rather are exemplary only. It should be understood that the described embodiments are not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Moreover the terms embodiments of the invention embodiments or invention do not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

The term database as used herein means an organized body of related data regardless of the manner in which the data or the organized body thereof is represented. For example the organized body of related data may be in the form of one or more of a table a map a grid a packet a datagram a frame a file an e mail a message a document a report a list or data presented in any other form.

An unmanned and potentially optionally manned aerial vehicle equipped with an AACU system provides rapid response cargo delivery to widely separated small units in demanding and unpredictable conditions that pose unacceptable risks to both ground resupply personnel and aircrew. The wide applicability of the AACU system for autonomous cargo capability across different vehicle platforms facilitates sufficient reliability to be entrusted with not just precision cargo delivery but also in the long term with evacuating human casualties from remote sites. As will be discussed the AACU system may be implemented via a computational resource and sensor suite mounted on vehicle platforms together with software that facilitates the planning sensing and avoidance functions.

An objective of the present invention is to provide a modular open architecture software and sensor suite including supervisory control interfaces that can be rapidly and cost effectively integrated and physically mounted on a number of different aerial vehicle platforms. Due to concerns that proprietary systems hinder or prevent cost effective upgrades and modifications am Open Architecture such as a Global Open Architecture Layer GOAL may be provided to allow portability e.g. the software that allows a new or legacy platform the ability to plug in to the software and sensor suite will be open source . Thus an AACU system s software sensor package e.g. a sensor payload sensor suite which may further include a processor and or other supporting hardware and supervisory control interfaces may be portable across different vehicles such that both legacy and new platforms can enjoy the benefits of the AACU system. The concept of modularity can also apply to components within systems or vehicles to enhance cross system compatibility while simplifying field level maintenance and repair.

Another objective of the AACU system is threat and or obstacle detection and avoidance autonomous landing site selection and descent to land capabilities that incorporate autonomous mission planning technologies in an open architecture framework that interfaces seamlessly with the aerial vehicle and Unmanned Aerial System UAS network and control infrastructures.

The AACU system which functions as a form of supervisory control system generally comprises for example 1 a sensor package to accomplish detection of obstacles and perception of physical features and their properties 2 a mission management layer that enables optional human supervisory control through advanced autonomy 3 route and trajectory planner for generating vehicle path commands and 4 a mission centered global open architecture layer. The AACU system may further comprise human system interfaces for a combat outpost COP a remote main operating base MOB and or a forward operating base FOB . As will be evidenced below an aspect of the present disclosure focuses on the second element an autonomous mission planning technology in an open architecture framework that interfaces seamlessly with the aerial vehicle UAS network and or control infrastructures. More particularly within the context of a mission centered global open architecture layer.

The AACU system s sensor package and supervisory control system may be integrated and or physically mounted on a number of different vehicle and aerial vehicle platforms including VTOL platforms. While the aerial vehicle depicted in the Figures is a VTOL aerial vehicle it will be understood that the autonomous vehicles described herein may include any vehicle device component element etc. that may be usefully navigated using the principles of the system disclosed herein including without limitation any unmanned vehicle manned vehicle aerial vehicle ground vehicle aquatic vehicle space vehicle remote controlled vehicle large vehicle small vehicle etc. unless explicitly stated otherwise or made clear from the text. For example the autonomous vehicles described herein may include helicopters or other vehicles using horizontal propellers for lift. The autonomous vehicles described herein may also or instead include vehicles with forward flight capability such as fixed wing aerial vehicles.

As noted above employing an Open Architecture and or GOAL further allows portability of the AACU system capability to other platforms. Alternatively the AACU system s sensor package and supervisory control system may be integrated with the aerial vehicle platform during aerial vehicle fabrication.

While numerous aerial vehicle platforms are possible an example general aerial vehicle type suitable for use with the AACU system may operate at low density high altitudes greater than 12 000 ft density altitude delivering multiple in stride cargo drops over round trip distances with for example between 150 and 365 nautical miles thereby reducing the number of ground transport delivered items. The aerial vehicle may be further configured to carry 1 600 to 5 000 pounds of payload internally with for example some internal capacity being allocated for CASEVAC . The aerial vehicle may travel at for example speeds of between 110 and 250 knots. Within the terminal area of 5 nautical miles the aerial vehicle may be configured to descend and land within a two to four minute window timeframe and execute an autonomous landing as close to the requested site as possible e.g an objective of less than 1 meter error from a computer designated landing site center point without over flight of the landing zone e.g. the vehicle executes a straight in approach without a first pass . In addition the aerial vehicle may be able to operate at night thus facilitating operation 24 hours a day 7 days a week in possibly satellite denied settings e.g. preventing communication and or satellite based geo location such as that provided by the Global Positioning System denoted GPS denied and in all types of environments including steep and rugged terrain instrument meteorological conditions IMC and non icing conditions high and hot environments and in dust and sand conditions with minimum visibility. An aerial vehicle equipped with an AACU system may be configured to operate in weather conditions that exceed those of maimed flight capabilities. While the forgoing describes the performance traits of an example aerial vehicle one of skill in the art would recognize that the AACU system s sensor package and supervisory control system may be integrated and physically mounted on a number of different aerial vehicle platforms as desired for a particular need.

As illustrated in an aerial vehicle equipped with an AACU system e.g. via an AACU system enabled platform autonomously detects and executes an aerial vehicle landing to an unprepared landing zone LZ while simultaneously negotiating and navigating threats and obstacles e.g. vegetation terrain buildings etc. potentially requiring evasive maneuvering. The landing zone LZ may have a radius of for example 50 150 meters. Within said landing zone LZ are one or more touchdown zones including for example a touchdown zone TZ designated by the field operator using the COP interface and one or more alternate touchdown zones ATZ . Each touchdown zone may have a radius of for example 1 to 50 meters more preferably 5 to 25 meters and most preferably about 10 20 meters. In operation the AACU system evaluates the area surrounding the COP designated touchdown zone TZ designated by the operator at combat outpost COP through a AACUS human systems interface. If the COP designated touchdown zone TZ is deemed unsuitable for touchdown an alternate touchdown zone ATZ may be identified. One or more alternate touchdown zones ATZ may be identified by the AACU system or an operator who may be based at the combat outpost COP a remote main operating base MOB or a forward operating base FOB .

The AACU system may be configured to avoid obstacles both static and dynamic in flight as well as in the descent to land phase in a potentially satellite denied environment. Further a consideration of the AACU system is the approach descent and landing phase so the intent for obstacle avoidance is to consider navigation in low level flight envelopes. Such obstacles could be static e.g. towers trees building etc. or dynamic e.g. no fly zones due to enemy activity other vehicles etc. . Similarly the AACU system may be further configured to detect and negotiate any conditions that could prevent a safe approach and or landing e.g. unsafe unstable ground composition marshy muddy ground vegetation and or water and able to negotiate sloped landing sites. Moreover the AACU system may be further capable of generating complete paths from launch to landing or touchdown which in certain aspects may be modifiable by a human in a supervisory control role in real time and to generate and execute new paths as dictated by mission plan data contingencies.

Accordingly in some aspects an aerial vehicle equipped with an AACU system may be capable of GOAL based supervisory control with an unobtrusive device from a variety of operators with no specialized training as well as from various locations e.g. field personnel medical personnel supply personnel command center personnel which could be beyond line of sight BLOS from the launch location. The AACU system is also advantageous in that it allows an operator with no special skills to supervise and request services from the system. The AACU system may be configured to operate in environments that currently present significant risks to manned aerial vehicles e.g weather threat terrain etc. and ideally to operate in environments that manned aerial vehicles cannot e.g. high wind steep terrain low visibility etc. . The AACU system may be configured to be monitored and supervised through a ground control station with mission planning capabilities from a remote operations center. Thus as will be discussed below an easy to use human system interface HSI device may be employed.

The AACU system may be configured to operate in meteorological or operating conditions that may limit traditional manned cargo delivery especially in austere terrains with low visibility due to dust precipitation and fog. Three interfaces for interaction with the AACU system include for example 1 operations center ground control stations 2 field operators and or 3 vehicle mounted systems for ground communication.

Upon power up the AACU software initializes the hardware runs a built in test and reports the results. Once initialized the AACU software may wait for a mission e.g. in the form of mission data to be uploaded or otherwise received to the aerial vehicle which is equipped with an AACU system. For example the main operating base may transmit to the aerial vehicle mission data that may comprise a set of routes per NATO Standardization Agreement 4586 STANAG 4586 including for example 1 launch route 2 approach route 3 flight route 4 contingency A and 5 contingency B. After the mission data has been uploaded to the mission manager the mission manager may send the mission data to the route and or trajectory planner. STANAG 4586 is a North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO Standard Interface of the Unmanned Control System UCS UAV interoperability. The standard includes data link command and control and human computer interfaces.

As noted above the aerial vehicle may be equipped with an autonomous normal flight mode and a piloted flight mode. During autonomous normal flight mode the aerial vehicle may be commanded by the main operating base to launch and follow a predefined launch route in accordance with for example the mission data previously received by the aerial vehicle . Thus according to one aspect the following sequence of events may occur to navigate the aerial vehicle to the rally waypoint 1 the aerial vehicle internal switch may be set to autonomous whether a physical switch or remote command 2 the main operating base sends a launch command to the vehicle management system VMS 3 the VMS commands the flight control system e.g. a system having a flight controller operatively coupled with one or more flight components and one or more sensors to execute a launch and forwards the command to the mission manager 4 the mission manager transitions from ground to launch mode and waits for a launch complete message from the flight control system 5 the trajectory planner sends trajectory commands to the flight control system to guide it to the rally waypoint 6 the aerial vehicle arrives at the rally waypoint . Alternatively during piloted flight mode the aerial vehicle may be piloted e.g. remotely directly to the rally waypoint or to the initial point hence there may be no need for execution of the launch route and or sequence. In certain aspects the autonomous normal flight mode may be overridden by a pilot. For example if the AACU system appears to be malfunctioning or immediate action is needed the pilot may remotely and quickly regain control of the aerial vehicle using mechanisms typically in place for optionally piloted and test aircraft.

To maintain identical software for both autonomous and piloted mode scenarios the following sequence of events may be employed to navigate the aerial vehicle to the initial point 1 the aerial vehicle internal switch may be set to manual 2 the pilot completes takes off 3 the mission sequencer detects that the aerial vehicle has taken off without a launch command and automatically transitions to a FlyLaunchRoute mode and 4 the pilot flies the aerial vehicle to the rally waypoint at which point the aerial vehicle may resume autonomous normal flight mode.

If the aerial vehicle reaches the rally waypoint autonomously the aerial vehicle may automatically transition to the flight route set forth in the mission data and begin autonomously executing that flight route. Thus once in autonomous mode the aerial vehicle autonomously executes the flight route because it has determined that it has completed the launch route since it has reached the rally waypoint . The aerial vehicle can autonomously execute the flight route request landing confirmation at the notification waypoint and executes the steps as described below and or in .

If the aerial vehicle has been manually piloted to the rally waypoint the following events may occur in order to transition to autonomous flight. The main operating base may first send a STANAG 4586 Flight Vehicle Command and Status Message 42 Vehicle Operating Mode Command to the VMS thereby putting it in loiter mode at which point the aerial vehicle may execute the loiter pattern until further commanded. For example the main operating base may send a STANAG Vehicle Mode 42 commanding the aerial vehicle to waypoint mode at which point the pilot need not interact with the AACU system. Alternatively the aerial vehicle pilot may put the aerial vehicle in autonomous mode. In yet another alternative the aerial vehicle may be configured to automatically enter autonomous mode once it arrives at a predetermined location e.g. rally waypoint . After the aerial vehicle has landed during the touchdown the pilot may then launch again and fly back to the initial point and repeat the process.

Once landing confirmation has been received by the AACU system at the notification waypoint the aerial vehicle may execute a descent procedure starting at the top of the descent point through the vehicle on ground point . During the descent procedure the aerial vehicle relies on the AACU system to identify and land at a predetermined touchdown zone or alternative touchdown zone while determining if a wave off command has been received by the AACU system.

For example turning now to when the aerial vehicle is a first predetermined distance from the touchdown zone e.g. 1 km and or a first predetermined time from the touchdown zone e.g. 55 seconds the aerial vehicle may begin scanning using the sensor package to detect for example terrain features and large obstacles. When the aerial vehicle is a second predetermined distance from the touchdown zone e.g. 400 m and or a second predetermined time from the touchdown zone e.g. 30 seconds the aerial vehicle determines whether the designated touchdown zone is feasible. If the AACU system determines that the designated touchdown zone is infeasible the AACU system may identify one or more alternate touchdown zones which may be communicated to the operator for consideration and or approval. Throughout this landing procedure the aerial vehicle may receive or otherwise detect a wave off command.

Between the second predetermined distance time and a third predetermined distance time from touchdown e.g. 60 m 10 seconds the AACU system may identify an alternate touchdown zone and inform the operator or pilot of the alternate touchdown zone . In response the operator may 1 approve the alternate touchdown zone 2 designate a second alternate touchdown zone 3 wave off the aerial vehicle 4 abort the mission or 5 do nothing. If the operator does nothing within a predetermined time period e.g. between 5 and 60 seconds more preferably 10 seconds and 30 seconds from touchdown the mission may be aborted. If the operator chooses to abort the mission explicitly or by failure to act the aerial vehicle may be directed to a hold off point or an egress point which will ultimately direct the aerial vehicle to navigate to a predetermined point such as the initial point .

If the AACU system determines that the designated touchdown zone is infeasible at the AACU system will identify one or more alternate touchdown zones and await approval at Step . At Step an alternate touchdown zone may be provided directing the aerial vehicle to land at said alternate touchdown zone at Step . Alternatively the aerial vehicle may be waved off causing the aerial vehicle to proceed to wave off at . In yet another alternative the mission may be aborted Step either via a command from the flight controller or a time out thus causing the aerial vehicle to return to a predetermined location such as the base. At any of Steps and the aerial vehicle may receive a wave off command whereby the aerial vehicle may be directed to a hold off point Step . The aerial vehicle may then loiter Step until the mission may be aborted Step or a retry may be attempted. If the aerial vehicle determines that the designated touchdown zone is feasible at the aerial vehicle proceeds to approach at Step where the aerial vehicle may execute the landing procedure at . Once the aerial vehicle is on the ground the aerial vehicle is deemed to have landed Step . The aerial vehicle may then again initialize Step for a new mission or to return to base.

The flight controller may provide feedback e.g. vehicle state data wind estimation data etc. to the vehicle dynamics lookup module via the vehicle dynamics module which may generate vehicle dynamic data from one or more sensors e.g. . Such vehicle dynamic data may also be used to control one or more flight controllers or flight controller systems e.g. flight components . Thus the flight controller coupled with the flight components and one or more flight controllers systems and sensors may function as the aerial vehicle s flight control system.

The motion planner may be configured to receive data e.g. obstacle and state data from the sensing and perception module which may receive data measurements from various sensors such as Light Detection and Ranging LIDAR Radio Detection And Ranging RADAR Electro Optical Infrared EO IR Imagers radio altimeter RADALT Air Data Sensor and or GPS Inertial Navigation System INS . The mission manager may be communicatively coupled with one or more remotely situated systems or operators via a communications system or module . For example the mission manager may wirelessly communicate with a COP MOB FOB and or another system such as a medic ground crew other vehicles etc.

The mission manager may be configured to send data reflecting the mission payload countermeasures and or other data to a ground crew e.g. a cargo system auxiliary system etc. or another system e.g. a medical system . Similarly the mission manager may be configured to receive data from sensors indicating a ground threat or a casualty . Any processors and or other hardware may be powered by a power supply which may be alternating or direct current e.g. traditional line current battery power solar power wind power etc. . The various components of the AACU system s architecture including exemplary features and or functions will now be described in greater detail below.

To facilitate the various functionalities of the of the AACU system the AACU system may employ a processor operatively coupled to 1 a memory data storage 2 one or more sensors and or 3 other systems disclosed herein or those known in the art. For example to process and manipulate data a processor may be equipped to run software that may be stored to ROM RAM or one or more other computer readable storage mediums. Similarly data collected or created by the AACU system may be stored to RAM ROM or another suitable storage medium for longer term retention. The AACU system may receive and transmit via said processor data related to location speed etc. The flight controller may further comprise a user interface e.g. via a HSI device allowing an operator e.g. either human or computer implemented either of which may be local or remote to input commands control operation and or adjust settings of AACU system. The user interface may be remotely coupled and or may include for example a computer a keyboard mouse touch screen joystick and the like.

The mission manager may comprise a 1 Mission Sequencer 2 STANAG to Robot Operating System ROS Bridge 3 ROS to STANAG Bridge 4 mission plan service 5 Route Monitor and 6 Route Feeder.

The mission sequencer manages the overall behavior of the AACU System and associated air vehicle. It employs multiple state machines one to manage the overall behavior of the air vehicle and the others to manage the commands issued by the main operating base and combat outpost . The mission sequencer may track at which waypoint the aerial vehicle is positioned instigate communications with the combat outpost for landing negotiation and tell the route feeder to send a new route to the trajectory planner via the mission command if needed. The mission sequencer may also communicate to the route feeder which route or phase of the route the aerial vehicle is performing e.g. Initialization and Configuration Launch En Route Approach etc. .

The STANAG to ROS Bridge acts as a bridge between the STANAG 4586 protocol used by the main operating base and the aerial vehicle s vehicle management system the Dynamic Route Planner which may or may not communicate using the STANAG 4586 protocol the ROS protocol used by the mission manager trajectory planner perception system and other components of the AACU System. The STANAG to ROS bridge allows integration with the commonly used STANAG 4586 messaging standard increasing the portability of the AACU system. This node performs the following services 1 aggregates a series of STANAG 4586 messages into a single mission plan ROS message and publishes this message over the ROS protocol. The mission plan data may comprise a set of routes nominally launch flight approach contingency A and contingency B each possibly with their own set of waypoints. The mission plan data for each mission plan may have a source identifier indicating if the plan came from the main operating base or the Dynamic Route Planner 2 translates other STANAG 4586 messages into for example equivalent ROS messages and publishes those messages over the ROS protocol and 3 subscribes to select ROS messages and translates them back into STANAG 4586 messages for broadcast on the STANAG 4586 multi cast network listened to by the Vehicle Specific Module VSM within the VMS main operating base possibly the Dynamic Route Planner and possibly the combat outpost . While the ROS protocol is disclosed and described herein it is only one of multiple ways in which messages may be published within the AACU System. Thus one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that other protocols such as DDS for example are possible. Accordingly the AACU system should not be limited to use with the ROS protocol.

The ROS to STANAG Bridge performs essentially the opposite function of the STANAG to ROS Bridge it translates ROS data into STANAG messages and supports the outgoing interface between the AACU system s internal components and the main operating base .

The mission plan service subscribes to the mission plan ROS message published by the STANAG to ROS node and stores in non volatile memory and organizes received mission plan data for use by elements of the mission manager and possibly other ROS nodes. Whenever the mission plan service receives and processes new mission plan data it may publish a configuration ROS message that specifies that the configuration is complete and indicates key waypoint identifiers within the mission plan data currently the rally notification and approach waypoint identifiers. The mission plan service will ensure that the waypoint identifiers are maintained in ascending numeric order corresponding to the visit order indicated by the route e.g. if the route indicates the vehicle should visit Rome Paris and London in that order Rome will have a lower numeric waypoint than Paris which in turn will have a numerically lower waypoint identifier than London . Whenever the mission plan service receives a route data request from another ROS node it may use the previous route and waypoint identifiers to fetch the corresponding series of waypoints and sends a route data reply with the requested number of waypoints back to the requestor. A request may request the current waypoint the vehicle is heading toward and all subsequent waypoints on the route.

The route monitor subscribes to two sensor messages one from the inertial state reported by the vehicle over STANAG 4586 translated into a ROS message by the STANAG to ROS node and the trajectory status message provided by the trajectory planner using data from the perception system. The route monitor will select or merge information from these two sources and report progress along the route in single floating point value representing a fractional distance from the last past waypoint e.g. 2.3 means 30 between waypoint and the next waypoint along the route . This may be the same format as reported by the trajectory planner although the information may not necessarily come solely from the trajectory planner. This provides the option to generate this signal internally from a mixture of inputs. The route monitor also measures route deviations and will send a Boolean flag embedded along with the route progress within the route status to the mission sequencer.

The route feeder block may create the mission command to the trajectory planner based on the current route provided by the mission sequencer the current vehicle position provided by the route monitor and the set of route waypoints provided by the mission plan service. Upon receipt of a route selection from the mission sequencer and a vehicle position from the route monitor the route feeder requests a set of waypoints currently from the current vehicle position to the end of the route from the mission plan service. The mission plan service replies with the requested set of waypoints. The route feeder may then form and publish the waypoints in the form of a mission command. The trajectory planner may receive these waypoints and adjust its trajectory accordingly.

Route planning may be facilitated via a software algorithm called 4D D that explicitly addresses the problem of routing multiple vehicles using a combination of data from maps as well as incrementally discovered information from the onboard sensors. This software is distinct in two specific ways. First it explicitly considers a 4D space composed of x y z and time allowing explicit consideration of moving obstacles such as weather or other vehicles that must be avoided. Second it uses concepts from a well known route planning algorithm called Field D to optimally update trajectories as new information becomes available. This has an advantage that completely new trajectories can be calculated in milliseconds over a large map by modifying the old trajectories versus having to completely re compute upon receiving new information. Depending on mission urgency or the priority given to saving fuel different paths might be preferred. The algorithm will choose paths that optimize a large set of criteria some of which might change during the mission. The algorithm complexity compute time may implement an any time version that will continually improve the solution given time but will produce an answer in some cases suboptimal at any time it may be requested.

Given an initial path from the mission planner the motion planner computes trajectories based on multiple objectives including proximity to obstacles desired landing vector based on wind direction vehicle dynamics and localization accuracy. The trajectory generation scheme also continuously improves and optimizes trajectories based on the criteria specified. It quickly produces and iterates on a new commanded path that avoids any detected obstacles and that the vehicle can follow. An advantage of this approach may be that the fidelity of the parallel planning algorithm scales with available computing power. If resources are limited only a small part of the search space can be explored while still obtaining a good enough solution. The planning system is robust and adaptive to the changing dynamics of a cargo aerial vehicle because they will change depending on the weight and wind conditions. The commands may be verified based on propagating the uncertainties of the different objectives and the execution uncertainty in a stochastic optimal control framework. This improves confidence in the execution of a plan and allows high performance control of the vehicle. Special maneuvers relevant to launch from and landing on sloped terrain may also be employed. The algorithm is configured to account for unexpected discontinuities in vehicle dynamics e.g. contact with undetected ground features through the addition of hidden states. Such mission level and motion planning algorithms may be adapted to a wide range of aerial vehicles. They combine multiple objectives and constraints in real time incorporate and adapt the dynamics into the motion plan with higher fidelity control and propagate uncertainties for robust control in sloped landing.

The flight controller may be operatively coupled with the motion planner the vehicle dynamics lookup module and vehicle dynamics module . In operation the flight controller generates flight control signal data based at least in part on date received from for example motion planner and one or more sensors e.g. RADALT Air Data Sensor and or GPS INS device . The flight control signal data generated by the flight controller may be communicated to or used to control the flight components . Example flight components include for example rotorcraft flight controls e.g. a collective cyclic pedals throttle auxiliary components etc. and fixed wing aircraft controls e.g. ailerons rudder trim tabs elevators throttle etc. .

In one aspect a flight controller may further employ for example a user interface and a processor operatively coupled to a memory data storage and the one or more sensors. For example to process and manipulate data a processor may be equipped to run software which may be stored to ROM RAM or one or more other computer readable storage mediums. Similarly data collected or created by the flight controller may be stored to RAM ROM or another suitable storage medium for longer term retention. The flight controller may receive and transmit via said processor data related to location speed attitude etc. The flight controller may further comprise a remotely situated user interface allowing an operator e.g. either human or computer implemented either of which may be local or remote to input commands and or control operation of flight controller . The remotely situated user interface may be the same remotely situated user interface used to control the AACU system. The user interface may be coupled with the flight controller and may include for example a computer a keyboard mouse touch screen joystick and the like. To monitor the various flight conditions the flight controller may further employ one or more sensors e.g. weather RADAR engine sensors vertical directional gyroscopes accelerometer thermometer altimeters etc. .

An objective of the foregoing is to enable safe aerial vehicle operations during launch cruise and descent by making the aerial vehicle aware of its environment. Thus an objective of the AACU system may be to ensure a safe final approach and a stable touchdown and environmental awareness during launch and or cruise. For example AACU perception may 1 support cruise speeds of up to 250 knots 2 permit a five mile approach to an LZ in two to four minutes and 3 be able to operate both in visually degraded and GPS denied environments. To meet these objectives a sensor package and perception algorithms are preferably tightly coupled. A sensor package s notable design features may be range the greater the range of the sensors the higher the approach speeds that can be supported range resolution the finer the resolution the easier to detect roughness and slope of the terrain and field of regard FOR a large FOR may be needed to be able to image the landing zone all the way from a distant approach to a view point directly above the landing site . Operation in visually degraded environments will also require sensors that penetrate obscurants and GPS denied operation will require employment of available sensors to achieve alternate methods of navigation. Finally for autonomous aerial vehicles to be accepted by ground forces operating at the forward bases the aerial vehicle may itself unambiguously identify common human gestures such as a wave off used by landing support specialists if present at the landing site. Analysis of various military aerial vehicle missions shows that an aggressive low flying profile such as those typically executed under hostile conditions may be the limiting case for determining the minimal sensor range for collision free flight. This presumes that the final approach starts at 110 knots a current example threshold 600 meters from the landing site. At this speed it may be necessary to sense about 300 meters ahead presuming that collisions are avoided by a combination of swerving and slowing down. The objective speed of 250 knots may be expected during cruise and may necessitate looking ahead by approximately 1 km. The final parameter related to the determination of the exact location of the skids on touchdown may be to avoid objects of 15 cm 6 implying that the resolution and accuracy of ranging must be better than five cm. The sensor suite may conduct landing zone LZ validation by classifying the terrain around the designated touchdown zone based on shape rough smooth flat level as well as by semantics muddy dry vegetated barren . During cruise flight and during final approach the sensor suite may be used to find obstacles such as buildings trees wires and towers that might not be known ahead of time. Third the sensor suite may be used to estimate vehicle position in the case of GPS denial or outage that could occur due to jamming or due to blockage by terrain. A point of departure design includes redundant complementary sensors.

LIDAR also called a laser scanner refers to a technology capable of measuring distance by illuminating a target with a laser and analyzing the reflected light. Thus a two axis scanning LIDAR may be used to provide high resolution imaging starting at 400 meters so as to enable straight in landings at speeds up to for example 135 knots. With a very large field of regard 180 the Scanning LIDAR may be used as a primary sensor for environmental perception whereby the laser ranging is capable penetrates all but heavy obscurants. The same LIDAR may be used for gesture recognition of personnel indicating final approval to land or a wave off Small LIDARs positioned appropriately may also be used to determine if the aerial vehicle is sinking in vegetation or soft terrain and to avoid tail strikes during launches involving pedal turns.

RADAR such as a forward looking RADAR may be used to provide low resolution imaging through weather conditions and thick brownout conditions during landing. The forward looking RADAR may be configured to measure distance to objects such as transmission towers tree lines and other vehicles at distances of up to 2 km. In addition this modality can be used to perform cruise missile like navigation in GPS denied environments.

Passive Electro Optical Infrared EO IR Imagers may be generally used for navigation in GPS denied environments for terrain analysis and detection of water and vegetation.

The AACU system architecture may be operatively coupled with one or more communication transceivers which may be used to wirelessly communicate data signals between the aerial vehicle and a remote system such as a COP MOB FOB and or another system . For example a wireless communication device may be configured to communicate data e.g. Surveillance Data mission plan data and or flight control signal data with the one or more remote systems. To facilitate optional wireless communication the aerial vehicle may further comprise an air communication link enabled to transmit TX and receive RX data using one or more antennas e.g. top and bottom . The antenna may be controlled via a processor that is operatively coupled to an RF switch. Thus data collected or created by the AACU system s architecture may be communicated with a remote system and or any other device capable of wired or wireless communication using either a wired communication link or a wireless communication link.

The AACU system may provide for example three or more communications links such as 1 MOB to aerial vehicle 2 COP to aerial vehicle 3 FOB to aerial vehicle and 4 between one or more of the MOB COP and or FOB . Communications may be maintained by establishing any two communications links. For example an aerial vehicle equipped with an AACU system may execute a lost communications contingency if communications are lost with both the main operating base and the combat outpost . If communications with either are present the AACU system equipped aerial vehicle may continue its mission except for situations where specific communications are required e.g. requiring landing confirmation from the combat outpost . In such cases the AACU system equipped aerial vehicle behavior may be explicitly specified for that scenario. Lost communications with the main operating base may be defined according to the STANAG standard. Lost communications with the combat outpost may be defined as the lack of a heartbeat message for a predetermined time e.g. 10 to 300 seconds more preferably 20 seconds to 100 seconds most preferably about 30 seconds . If communication is re established after a lost communications contingency has been executed the operator may override the AACU system equipped aerial vehicle s behavior by uploading and executing new mission plan data. This may include commanding the aerial vehicle to execute its currently loaded mission. The main operating base has the capability of uploading new mission plan data whereas the combat outpost does not. Therefore the only function a combat outpost can execute is to command the AACU system equipped aerial vehicle to re establish its mission to land at the previously designated touchdown zone or alternate thereto .

When available a GPS INS device may be used to provide latitude and longitude information as well as altitude. GPS INS device uses GPS satellite signals to correct or calibrate a solution from an INS. The GPS gives an absolute drift free position value that can be used to reset the INS solution or can be blended with the INS by use of a mathematical algorithm such as a Kalman Filter. The angular orientation of the unit can be inferred from the series of position updates from the GPS. The change in the error in position relative to the GPS can be used to estimate the unknown angle error. The benefits of using GPS with an INS are that the INS may be calibrated by the GPS signals and that the INS can provide position and angle updates at a quicker rate than GPS. For high dynamic vehicles such as missiles and aerial vehicles INS fills in the gaps between GPS positions. Additionally GPS may lose its signal and the INS can continue to compute the position and angle during the period of lost GPS signal.

When the GPS INS device is unavailable e.g. a GPS Denied Operation which may be due to poor reception or a malfunction the AACU system s architecture remains functional where GPS signals are interrupted for example due to active jamming or shadowing from terrain. Generally speaking the AACU system may navigate the aerial vehicle using visual landmarks for navigation during descent. Specifically satellite maps of the area along with Digital Terrain Evaluation Data DTED may be used to determine salient features offline. Thus one or more databases which may be stored to a memory data storage device may be used to store information related to without limitation DIED buildings and structures geographical maps military maps and or any other information that may be used to assist in navigating the aerial vehicle. During a mission features from an onboard camera are compared to the maps to produce a navigation solution. Typically accuracy may be 1 of distance traveled for such applications. In the case that salient features are continuously available during the mission drift in navigation can be significantly reduced. Flight tests show that navigation error can be capped to 10 meters 3 sigma in an hour of flight over varying terrain.

Visually degraded environments are common in combat operations and can complicate the process of autonomous low elevation flight. Ensuring collision free flight when flying close to and inside clouds or during the final approach where the landing zone may be obscured by brownout may require special consideration. An approach to this may be two fold. First the LIDAR may be capable of ranging in light through moderate obscurants using a method called full waveform analysis. In contrast to most laser ranging devices that use the first return over threshold to compute range this method looks at all returns from a laser chirp to determine the furthest opaque object. Intermediate returns can automatically be flagged in the sensor hardware. Since laser ranging cannot penetrate the thickest obscurants and because high cruise speeds may require km scale ranging a RADAR e.g. W Band 94 GHz may be included for operating the aerial vehicles in a brownout environment. At cruise speeds the RADAR look ahead distance for objects such as transmission towers and ridgelines may be increased relevant in case of navigation failure . During final approach the RADAR can provide returns corresponding to ground objects such as vehicles buildings and power lines. RADAR returns from a ALG W band 94 Ghz RADAR mounted to the front of an aerial vehicle descending into a landing zone may be mapped onto a pilot s display during an approach to a landing zone.

The LIDAR for landing zone validation can be used to detect gestures by field personnel. Simple gestures can be detected by the LIDAR used to perform landing zone validation and to generate a range image. Such imagery is robust to ambient illumination or requiring the personnel to use any fixed infrastructure to signal to the aerial vehicle. Hand and or body gestures already in use by marine landing support specialists and army pathfinders can likely be used to provide final confirmation to land or to wave off the landing.

The perception system offers at least three advantages including 1 Combining scanning LIDAR and RADAR provides both long range detection in degraded visual environments DVE and high resolution for determining an optimal landing zone 2 position estimation that can be based on EO IR Imagers LIDAR RADAR as necessary only EO IR Imagers might be used for stealth to provide robustness e.g. to GPS outage and high performance and 3 Terrain Analysis based on both geometry from LIDAR and vegetation properties EO IR Imagers . The main sensor scanning LIDAR is a derivative of a commonly used device for aerial survey and offers significantly higher accuracy larger adaptable field of view and lower price than other sensors such as Flash LIDAR. The RADAR sensor may be configured to penetrate weather and brownout conditions to provide assurance of collision free flight.

The Configuration sent from the mission plan service to the mission sequencer indicates whether or not the configuration is complete and contains the indices of specific action waypoints 1 rally waypoint last waypoint of launch route used to change from launch to flight route 2 notification waypoint point at which AACU system requests permission to land from the combat outpost and 3 approach waypoint last waypoint of flight route and first waypoint of approach route. The configuration also contains status regarding an updated mission and threshold for route deviation beyond which a route re plan may be necessary.

A Route Data Request is one half of a synchronous ROS service call to the mission plan service to request a set of waypoints along a given route. The request contains the route identifier the starting waypoint identifier to fetch from and the number of consecutive waypoints to fetch or a flag valve to fetch all remaining waypoints in the route. Upon receipt of this request the mission plan service will reply with an array of waypoints.

This ROS message is the response to a route data request. It comprises an array of waypoints starting from the waypoint identifier indicated in the request and containing the number of waypoints requested. If the request indicates all remaining waypoints this response will contain all remaining waypoints along the route.

The route status message indicates the current location of the vehicle relative to the route s waypoints and a Boolean flag indicating if the vehicle has veered too far off the planned route. The vehicle s waypoint location may be expressed as a floating point waypoint identifier where the integer portion indicates the most recent waypoint passed and the fractional portion indicates the fractional distance between the passed waypoint and the next waypoint the vehicle is flying toward this may be an identical representation to the Trajectory Status . The Boolean flag indicates if the vehicle flight path has diverged past some limit from the planned path and may trigger a re plan if so determined by the Mission Sequencer.

An objective is to generally have an autonomous aerial vehicle fit into the cargo delivery and casualty evacuation process as seamlessly as possible. The AACU system s value stems not only from technical achievement but also from its procedures being easily adopted by personnel interacting with the vehicle at various stages of the mission with no specialized training. Landing at unprepared sites historically required specific attention since units operating in remote locations are severely resource constrained. Interaction with the vehicle must be achievable with minimal equipment and infrastructure. Hence field personnel may be able to request services from an aerial vehicle equipped with an AACU system for cargo resupply and CASEVAC. This interface must be intuitive and oriented around the tasks done during cargo and casualty evacuation using an intuitive interface. In some cases it may be essential that the vehicle not depend on an operator to land since it might be directed to a location with no ground personnel or communication. Hence the most useful role of the operator during the critical landing phase may be to enhance safety allowing the complete human machine system to perform at a higher level of capability than the machine or a human pilot on his or her own. Human system interaction will also enable a level of redundancy in case the onboard systems fail or their performance may be degraded.

Interface technologies may be tailored according to how useful they are to the MOB FOB and COP operators. For example at the MOB this might lead to networked PCs with smart boards. At the slightly more austere FOB the UGCS 400 interface with touch screens for simple negotiation offers potential. At the very austere COP size weight and power are particularly constraining and we will consider cell phone applications and functionality. More sophisticated functionality such as multi vehicle tasking at the FOB or complex negotiations with both the FOB and vehicle at the COP may be possible.

AACU system emphasizes modular platform agnostic processors sensor suites and software that can be adapted to various aerial vehicles and missions thus lowering total ownership costs and the time needed to integrate developed technology into fielded systems. Current solutions for complex architectures rely on a series of point to point devices each with specialized interfaces. To lower the number of components in these systems many functions are usually combined within one device using tightly coupled code developed for specific hardware operating systems applications and target platforms. Traditional architectures require significant time and capital resources to integrate certify and upgrade while limiting life cycle maintenance to one prime integrator. An AACU system however would benefit from an improved architecture that allows functional modules to be interoperable with clearly defined interfaces. In addition the architecture will need to support health monitoring diagnostics and restarting of failed computer processes during the mission all without the involvement of an onboard crew.

AACU system functional architecture with innovative approaches to perception planning and HSI may be integrated within a robust open architecture framework to provide platform agnostic automation for rapid resupply and CASEVAC. To open the development ecosystem an Open Architecture and or Global Open Architecture Layer GOAL may be employed to exploit concepts of module partitioning hardware and software abstraction loose coupling of functional modules and a central standardized data exchange layer. The GOAL for example may be implemented as a Service Oriented Architecture SOA that exchanges data through a shared canonical data model using the Data Distribution Service DDS international standard. Platform mission specific modules are easily replaced in such architectures. DDS may be an anonymous publication subscription middleware standard that provides a low overhead and low latency solution targeted for real time processing and embedded applications. DDS allows for extensive control of quality of service attributes that ensure reliability bandwidth delivery deadlines resource limits priorities security and information assurance. Combined with hardware and operating system abstraction this architecture facilitates component re use services plug and play open competition for development and integration platform agnostic functionality and interoperability between system components and other systems. The architecture also allows other advances like system health monitoring and sense and avoid to be easily integrated into the overall AACU system equipped aerial vehicles. GOAL enables universal AACU services to control plug and play platforms sensors and equipment via a government controlled interface standards.

The AACU system may be composed of a set of top level subsystems. These are ground units e.g. forward operating base main operating base and combat outpost and airborne units e.g. VMS VSM mission manager trajectory planner perception system and flight control system . The main operating base and the combat outpost are the ground control units the main operating base being a full blown ground control system and the combat outpost being a small hand held device for use in the field. The airborne units comprise the majority of the AACU system with the exception of the VMS and flight control system which are part of the aerial vehicle.

The mission manager is generally responsible for coordinating the major autonomous operations of the vehicle including a sequencing the major autonomous operations of the vehicle such as notifications to the command outpost receipt and processing of wave off and aborts etc. b monitoring and feeding desired location information waypoints to a trajectory planner c requesting the automatic recalculation of the flight route upon significant deviations from the desired flight route or upon changes in the mission s area of operation safe air volume d the portability and openness of the invention may be ensured through i open communications standard e.g. user datagram protocol UDP and ii separation of logic from the messaging format in order to facilitate future migration to a global open architecture e ease of use may be i ensured through support of IP based radio communications with the AACU system equipped aerial vehicle ii developed using Human Machine Interface HMI methods inherent in modern mobile device applications such as Apple s iOS or Google s Android and iii controlled from a mobile man packable device that capitalizes on modern communications technology.

While the present invention has been described with respect to what is presently considered to be the preferred embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments. To the contrary the invention is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. The scope of the following claims is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent structures and functions.

All documents cited herein including journal articles or abstracts published or corresponding U.S. or foreign patent applications issued or foreign patents or any other documents are each entirely incorporated by reference herein including all data tables figures and text presented in the cited documents.

