---

title: Non-contact fiber optic localization and tracking system
abstract: A system for detecting and tracking one or more of direction, orientation and position of one or more light sources includes one or more optical fiber sensors configured to receive light from the one or more light sources and to generate a plurality of cones of light according to relative positions of the one or more optical fiber sensors relative to the one or more light sources. The system includes light data processing circuitry configured to detect characteristics of the plurality of cones of light and to determine one or more of direction, orientation, or position of the one or more light sources relative to the one or more optical fibers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09599697&OS=09599697&RS=09599697
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 09599697
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140415
---
This invention was made with government support under contract number N00024 03 D 6606 awarded by the Naval Sea Systems Command NAVSEA . The government has certain rights in the invention.

Example embodiments of the invention relate to light detection and in particular to localizing or tracking one or more light sources using one or more fiber optic sensors.

When light enters a fiber optic waveguide at an angle relative to a normal directional facing of a distal end of the fiber the light is emitted from the opposite or proximal end of the fiber optic waveguide as a cone having angles of its sides that are based on the angle of incidence of the light onto the receiving end of the fiber optic waveguide. In particular the angle of incidence of the light onto the receiving end of the fiber optic waveguide is the same as the angle at which the light exits the emitting or proximal end of the fiber optic waveguide according to the well known principle of total internal reflection. The characteristics of the cone such as the shape of the base of the cone projected onto a detection surface may then be analyzed to determine the angle of incidence of the light onto the receiving end of the fiber optic waveguide. The direction and location of the light source may not be determined from a single waveguide measurement since the direction of the light source may correspond to any point along the sides of the corresponding receiving cone from the distal end of the fiber. However measurements from multiple fiber optic waveguides may be combined to localize and track optical sources.

In addition if the sources are spatially fixed with respect to each other and attached to some other secondary structure the detection system can effectively track the position and orientation of said secondary structure.

There is significant established need and prior art in the use of optical technologies and methods for localization and tracking purposes. These include interferometric techniques such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 515 275 and 7 349 099 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety as well as numerous methods based on triangulation imaging both monoscopic and stereoscopic position sensitive detectors PSDs and active laser ranging methods based on time of flight measurements. However fiber optic sensors have not typically or commonly been used for localization and tracking. In some cases localization and tracking using fiber optic sensors has distinct advantages over other tracking methods. For instance in some cases the sensing head of the tracking system must be low profile and must be able withstand high temperatures or other extreme environmental conditions that would preclude the use of imagers or other direct sensing components such as PSDs.

U.S. Patent application No. 2009 0314925 Van Vorhis et al. Fiber Optic Tracking System and Method for Tracking which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety describes a method for tracking an object by processing the signal from an optical fiber that is attached to the tracked object.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 071 460 Rush Optical Non Contact Measuring Probe which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety describes an active sensor that emits an optical signal towards a proximate surface and then couples the reflected signal back into an optical fiber. The light pattern exiting the proximal end of the fiber is analyzed to compute the displacement to the reflective surface. This active sensor is intended for use in restricted spaces for very small displacements over a range of a few millimeters.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 792 185 Ahrens et al. Method and Apparatus for Automatic Tracking of an Optical Signal in a Wireless Optical Communication System which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety describes a method using a fiber optic bundle to maintain directional coupling to a communications signal by comparing the amplitudes of the signals from various fibers in the array to generate a feedback signal to adjust the orientation of the receiving unit.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 196 714 Garcia Jr. et al. System for X Y Alignment and Tracking of Moving Targets Having Angular Displacement with Fiber Optic Sensing Surface which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety describes a fiber optic system and method for tracking a source based on triangulation and using row and column arrays of fibers.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 085 507 Williams et al. Device for Three Dimensional Tracking of an Object which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety also uses column and row arrays of fiber optic sensors to determine the position of a source.

Embodiments of the invention include a system for localizing and tracking one or more light sources. The system includes one or more optical fiber sensors configured to receive light from the one or more light sources and to emit a plurality of cones of light from the proximal ends of said fiber sensors according to relative positions of the one or more optical fiber sensors relative to the one or more light sources. The system includes light data processing circuitry configured to detect characteristics of the plurality of cones of light and to determine a direction of the one or more light sources relative to the one or more optical fibers.

Additional aspects of the invention relate to a method of localizing or tracking one or more light sources. The method includes receiving by a light receiving or distal ends of one or more optical fibers light from the one or more light sources and emitting by the light emitting or proximal ends of the one or more optical fibers a plurality of cones of light according to relative positions and orientations of the one or more optical fibers relative to the one or more light sources. The method includes detecting by light data processing circuitry characteristics of the plurality of cones of light and determining the direction of the one or more light sources relative to the one or more optical fibers based on the characteristics of the plurality of cones of light.

Additional features and advantages are realized through the techniques of the present invention including repetitive measurements that provide a means to localize and track light sources or objects over time. For example two direction measurements of a stationary source from a moving platform provide a means of using triangulation to identify the position of the source even if the source is a laser. Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed invention. For a better understanding of the invention with the advantages and the features refer to the description and to the drawings.

The example non limiting embodiments hereafter described relate to localizing and tracking one or more light sources such as the direction and location of the one or more light sources relative to one or more optical fiber sensors by determining characteristics of cones of light emitted by the one or more optical fiber sensors.

The optical fiber sensor assembly includes optical fibers having light receiving ends to receive light from the light source and light emitting ends to emit cones of light corresponding to the light from the light source. The distal ends of the optical fibers may include lenses to focus the optical signals which is a standard practice. The optical fiber sensor assembly includes proximal optics such as refractory optics reflective optics or any other optical surfaces that facilitate the measurements of the light cones that are projected from the optical fiber and onto the cone of light detection component . The detection component may include an optical sensor array such as a line scanner or camera or any other light detecting device or component. Other examples include a photodiode or an imaging chip such as a color or monochrome charge coupled device CCD or a color or monochrome complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS imager an array of photodiodes or other light sensitive materials an array of color or monochrome CCDs or an array of color or monochrome CMOS imagers. In one embodiment the array is a one dimensional array or a series of detection devices arranged in a line.

The cone of light analysis assembly includes a light data processing circuit which may include one or more of a microprocessor logic circuitry memory and any other circuitry capable of analyzing data resulting from the measurement of projected cones of light onto the surface of the sensing array such as angles of incidence intensity spectra temporal variations and times of occurrence. The cone of light analysis assembly is also capable of combining multiple concurrent angle of incidence measurements to compute source directions and positions combining multiple non concurrent direction measurements to compute source positions and to combine multiple non concurrent position measurements for tracking purposes. In one embodiment the cone of light analysis assembly uses several robust algorithms including unconstrained non linear optimization and iterative grid searches to find tracking solutions.

The system includes an optical fiber sensor assembly including an optical fiber or light guide including a light receiving end or distal end for receiving the light to from the light sources to and a light emitting end or proximal end that emits cones of light to based on the received light to . In this embodiment that only requires the use of a single optical fiber or light guide the four or more light sources are intended to be in a known rigid spatial arrangement with respect to one another thus forming a coordinate system. The arrangement of light sources may also be attached rigidly to a secondary structure such as a machine a vehicle or a person for localizing and tracking said secondary structure. The cones of light to are projected onto a light detection component . In embodiments of the invention the direction position and orientation of the light sources to are determined based on the characteristics of the cones of light to . In particular light is emitted from the optical fiber at an angle that corresponds to the angle at which light enters the optical fiber but while the light enters the optical fiber as a beam the light leaving the optical fiber leaves the optical fiber in the shape of a cone. Accordingly the direction from which the light enters the optical fiber may be determined by analyzing the characteristics of the shapes of the projected cones of light to that are projected onto light detection component . In this embodiment where the user has full knowledge and control over the intrinsic characteristics of the light sources to unique spectral characteristics intensity variations and temporal modulations of each light source may be used to improve the measurements of the geometric properties of the light cones to that are projected onto light detection component .

While four sources of light to are illustrated in embodiments of the invention encompass any number of sources of light. In an embodiment in which only three cones of light emitted from the same optical fiber are analyzed and in which the three cones of light correspond to only three directional light sources a direction of the sources of light may be determined. In another embodiment in which at least four cones of light emitted from the same optical fiber are analyzed and the four cones of light correspond to four light sources the direction orientation and the location of the sources of light may be determined.

While cones of light to are represented in for purposes of illustration the depictions of should not be considered accurate depictions of the actual shapes of the cones of light that would be generated by light sources to relative to the optical fiber .

Unless otherwise indicated light sources according to embodiments of the invention may include any type of light sources including natural light sources and fabricated light sources. Examples of light sources include stars or the moon light bulbs light emitting diodes lasers or any other light source. Directional light sources are lasers or focused beams of light. Non directional light sources project light over a large angular spatial extent that is not focused into a narrow beam like a point source or an LED.

In embodiments of the invention one or both of the light sources and optical fiber sensors may be mobile. For example in one embodiment the light sources are mounted on a vehicle such as an automobile or aircraft and the optical fiber sensors assemblies are stationary to determine the distance of the vehicle from the sensor assembly based on the light from the light sources. In another embodiment the sensor assemblies are mounted to the vehicle and the light sources are stationary. In yet another embodiment both the sources and sensor assemblies are in relative motion with respect to each other.

In the lines and represent axes corresponding to the distal light receiving ends of the optical fibers and respectively. The cones and correspond to the cones and of light emitted from the optical fibers and . The cones and are defined by the axes and passing through the apex of the cones and and having the sides of the cones arranged at angles and . The angle is defined by the angle of the light relative to the axis . The angle is defined by the angle of the light relative to the axis . The angle is defined by the angle of the light relative to the axis . The sides of the cones and are formed by rotating a line corresponding to the angles and around their respective axes and

As mentioned above the cones and correspond to the cones and such that the angle of the beam of light relative to the axes and determine the shapes of the cones of light and .

In one embodiment the angular relationship between the three fiber axes corresponds to the intersecting edges at the vertex of a tetrahedron.

In operation the characteristics of the cones to are detected by the light detection component to determine the direction of the source of light . In particular the intersection of two cones having a common vertex i.e. the light receiving end of the optical fibers yields two possible directions of the laser. The intersection of the third cone then resolves the correct direction among the two possible directions.

In operation two or more measurements may be combined over time to yield additional information. For example if two or more non concurrent direction measurements are made from a moving platform that is being lased the two direction measurements may be triangulated to determine the source location of the laser beam.

While only one light source is illustrated in for purposes of description embodiments are not limited to determining the position of only one light source. For example in one embodiment multiple different light sources exist and the light cones of the different light sources are analyzed to determine the directions of each light source. In one embodiment the multiple different light sources are of different colors or different intensities or have different temporal modulations. In addition while the light emitting ends of the optical fibers to are illustrated as being separated from each other for purposes of illustration embodiments include light emitting ends that are adjacent to each other.

While three optical fibers to are illustrated in embodiments of the invention encompass any number of optical fibers. In one embodiment only two optical fibers are used to determine the direction of a light source. In such an embodiment the light source and the two optical fibers are all located on the same plane. More particularly the distal axes corresponding to the light receiving ends of the optical fibers are located along the same plane as the light source.

In the lines and represent axes corresponding to the distal light receiving ends of the optical fibers and respectively. The cones and correspond to the cones and of light emitted from the optical fibers and . The cones and are defined by the axes and passing through the apex of the cones and and having the sides of the cones arranged at angles and . The angle is defined by the angle of the light relative to the axis . The angle is defined by the angle of the light relative to the axis . The angle is defined by the angle of the light relative to the axis . The sides of the cones and are formed by rotating a line corresponding to the angles and around their respective axes and . In one embodiment the direction of the light source is represented by an angle relative to a horizontal axis passing through the distal light receiving ends of the optical fibers to .

The optical fiber sensor assembly further includes a fourth optical fiber having a distal light receiving end separated from the distal light receiving ends of the optical fibers to by a distance d. The line represents an axis corresponding to the distal light receiving end of the optical fiber . The cone corresponds to the cone of light emitted from the optical fiber . The cone is defined by the axis passing through the center of the light receiving end of the optical fiber and having sides arranged at an angle . The sides of the cone are formed by rotating a line corresponding to the angle around its axis . Light from optical source propagates to optical fiber via light beam

In operation the characteristics of the cones to are detected by the light detection component to determine a direction of the light source and the characteristics of the cone caused by the incident light beam are added to those of the cones to to determine the location of the light source . In the embodiment illustrated in the optical fiber and the axis are arranged vertically or perpendicular to the horizontal plane . However embodiments of the invention are not limited to the illustrated angle and the optical fiber and corresponding axis may be arranged at any angle.

The optical fiber assembly also includes a fourth optical fiber which emits a cone of light based on the light received from the light source . In the embodiment of the optical fibers to are spaced apart from each other and the light receiving ends or the axes to representing the distal light receiving ends are displaced from each other and at a fixed angle with respect to each other. The fixed angle is zero in the case where optical fibers are parallel to each other. Likewise the distal axis of the optical fiber is displaced from but not necessarily parallel to the optical fibers axes corresponding to fibers to . The light source must be within the field of view of all the optical fibers to and .

In one embodiment the optical fibers to are arranged such that at least two of the optical fibers are displaced along a first axis and at least two of the optical fibers are displaced along a second axis perpendicular to the first axis. In the optical fiber is displaced from the optical fiber along the X axis and the optical fiber is displaced from the optical fiber along the Y axis. Although illustrates an embodiment in which the optical fibers and are aligned or co linear along the X axis embodiments encompass the optical fibers and being displaced in the direction of the Y axis as well as the X axis. Likewise although illustrates an embodiment in which the optical fibers and are aligned or co linear along the Y axis embodiments encompass the optical fibers and being displaced in the direction of the X axis as well as the Y axis.

In operation the characteristics of the cones to are detected by the light detection components and to determine two possible positions of the light source and the characteristics of the cone are analyzed along with those of the cones to to resolve the actual position of the light source .

In one embodiment elements and represent different light sources. In such an embodiment the light from the light sources may be detected by a single optical fiber to determine a direction orientation and position of the single optical fiber relative to the light sources. In another embodiment the elements and represent different optical fibers that receive light from one or more light sources to generate cones of light which are then used to determine one or both of the direction and location of the one or more sources of light. For purposes of simplicity in description the elements to and are referred to below as optical fibers.

In one embodiment the optical fibers to are arranged relative to the X axis and Y axis such that the optical fibers to define a circumference of a circle or are all arranged on the circumference of the circle. In one embodiment the optical fibers to are equidistant from each other around the circumference of the circle but embodiments of the invention are not limited to such an arrangement. Instead the optical fibers to may be located any distance from each other.

In an embodiment in which it is desired to maintain the optical fiber sensor assembly as compact as possible while obtaining the most accurate measurements of the cones of light possible a fourth optical fiber is located at the center of the circle . In such an embodiment the greatest geometric diversity of angle measurements is obtained while minimizing the optical fiber sensor assembly footprint. However in another embodiment an optical fiber may be located outside the circumference of the circle. In such an embodiment the long range accuracy of the fiber optical sensor assembly increases while also increasing the footprint of the fiber optic sensor assembly. In some embodiments the optical fibers or are not located along the circumference of the circle.

While embodiments have been described in which the location of one or more light sources is determined based on analyzing cones of light in another embodiment in which an intensity of the one or more light sources is known the distance from the one or more optical fibers to the one or more light sources may be calculated based on the known light intensity instead of based on shape characteristics of a cone of light output by the one or more optical fibers based on the light from the one or more light sources.

In block light is received at the light receiving ends or distal ends of one or more optical fibers possibly through distal optics to focus the optical signals. In block light cones are output from light emitting ends or proximal ends of the one or more optical fibers and the light cones are detected by a light detection component. In block the characteristics of the light cones are analyzed to determine spatial characteristics of the one or more light sources. In particular one or more of the direction orientation and position of the one or more light sources or the structure and coordinate system with which they are associated may be determined relative to the one or more optical fibers.

As discussed in the present embodiments the one or more light sources may include only one light source and the one or more optical fibers may include two three four or more optical fibers. Alternatively the one or more light sources may include three four or more light sources and the one or more optical fibers may include only one optical fiber. According to yet another alternative embodiment the one or more light sources may include multiple light sources and the one or more optical fibers may include multiple optical fibers.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented in any field structure device vehicle or in any situation in which one or more of a direction orientation and a location of one object is determined relative to another object and in particular one object including a light source and the other including a fiber optic sensor. Examples of some implementations of embodiments include optical free space optical communication FSOC acquisition FSOC between moving platforms the identification of the direction or source position of a laser beam impinging on an aircraft or other platform laser targeting detection and tracing surveillance cueing robotics medical equipment positioning camera movement and compensation detecting shifting loads detecting the position of a vehicle such as a smart car aircraft or other vehicle tracking heavenly objects such as the sun moon or stars navigation tracking the position of a human such as athlete position tracking etc. It is understood that embodiments of the invention are not limited to the above examples.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one more other features integers steps operations element components and or groups thereof.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiments have been chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

While various non limiting example embodiments have been herein described it will be understood that those skilled in the art both now and in the future may make various improvements and enhancements which fall within the scope of the claims which follow.

