---

title: Data clustering system and methods
abstract: Data having some similarities and some dissimilarities may be clustered or grouped according to the similarities and dissimilarities. The data may be clustered using agglomerative clustering techniques. The clusters may be used as suggestions for generating groups where a user may demonstrate certain criteria for grouping. The system may learn from the criteria and extrapolate the groupings to readily sort data into appropriate groups. The system may be easily refined as the user gains an understanding of the data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09183285&OS=09183285&RS=09183285
owner: Next IT Corporation
number: 09183285
owner_city: Spokane
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140827
---
Large amounts of data are collected every day. Often people attempt to understand the data in order to leverage the data. The amount of data may be overwhelming for humans to easily understand without the help of tools. Various tools that are available in the natural language space often require a linguistic background and often significant training and or experience in order to effectively use the tools. Accordingly there is a need for a tool that allows a user to gain an understanding of large amounts of data without requiring that the user gain significant training or experience to operate.

This disclosure describes in part data clustering and organizing systems and methods. In some instances data may be clustered according to predefined algorithms for example agglomerative clustering. In some instances data may be grouped based on emulation and extrapolation of user provided guidance and or examples. Various embodiments contemplate allowing a user to analyze large amounts of data. For example a user in a first instance may readily and rapidly determine what data is alike and what data is different with respect to a first set of criteria or first view point. Additionally the user in a second instance may readily and rapidly determine what data is alike and what data is different with respect to a second set of criteria or second view point. In these examples the user may use the same data in the first and second instances or may use subsets of the data in each or either instance.

For example various embodiments contemplate helping the user to understand how a set of inputs relate to each other. Various embodiments contemplate grouping certain inputs into groups for example buckets of similar characteristics. For example a set of natural language inputs may be grouped into buckets of similar intents.

Various embodiments contemplate allowing a user to view and or analyze data in an aggregate form. While data may still be analyzed one by one in various embodiments viewing and or analyzing the data in an aggregated form may provide additional efficiency in analyzing and or understanding the data. For example this may allow a user to approach the data and identify any problem areas represented by the data from a holistic approach and may further allow a strategic approach to refine or resolve the identified problems. For example in a natural language setting a user analyzing a large dataset of conversations from a helpline call or chat may holistically identify problem areas of the underlying service and allow the user to strategically address those areas identified for example by addressing the most frequent problems first.

Additionally or alternatively shows a preprocessor that may comprise a feature set extractor . For example a feature set extractor may extract features from the data. For example the feature set extractor may comprise a string generator that may generate a string that represents each data of the data to be clustered . For example a string that represents a data entry may include the data entry a portion of the data entry additional features or combinations thereof. For example also shows a remove features unit where for example elements present in the data that does not help to compare or contrast the data may be removed. For example stop words may be removed in a natural language setting. For example a stop word may comprise some words may be used frequently in the data but are not helpful in grouping the data. For example the terms the may not be helpful and may be ignored. Additionally or alternatively in a natural language setting dealing with a specific subject for example an organization the organization s name may not be helpful in determining useful groupings and may be ignored. The words used as stop words may be based on a static list of words a tailored list of words or combinations thereof. Often it may be desirable to specify stop words based at least in part on the context of the data and the context in which the user is trying to understand the data. Various embodiments contemplate that the removal of features may be easily accessed and tailored to more readily understand the data given the context of the user and data.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate leveraging mappings. For example a dataset may contain elements that on the surface appear to be disparate but for the purposes of a given situation may be considered as a single element. As such when one or more of the disparate features appears for clustering and or grouping procedures a replacement feature may be substituted. For example in a natural language setting directed to a medical application terms such as Ritalin Prozac Xanax insulin aspirin may be mapped to the term medicine. This may allow data directed to the concept of medicine to be grouped together more readily. Various embodiments contemplate this as a combination of adding features the generalized mapped feature and removing features the specific mapped feature . The features added for example in N grams vocabulary mappings may be based on a static list of words a tailored list of words or combinations thereof. Often it may be desirable to specify added features based at least in part on the context of the data and the context in which the user is trying to understand the data. Various embodiments contemplate that the addition of features may be easily accessed and tailored to more readily understand the data given the context of the user and data.

The preprocessor may also comprise pattern recognition to preprocess the data. For example pattern recognition may allow for identification of patterns in the data. Various embodiments contemplate identifying patterns in speech language text images sounds among others. For example natural language processing may identify additional meaning in the data. Additionally or alternatively the pattern recognition may extract meaning concepts intents context among other features in the data. For example a conversation may provided.

The pattern recognition may be configured to identify e.g. determine one or more pieces of contextual information. The pattern recognition may take into account contextual information when determining an intent or meaning of a piece of data for example a user s query. Additionally or alternatively context may be taken into account when determining a response or reply to provide back to the user. Additionally or alternatively a response or reply provided to a user may provide context itself. Additionally or alternatively by taking into account meanings intents concepts and or context and understanding of the data may be gained that more closely emulates human to human interaction and understanding of a piece of data in comparison to traditional techniques for understanding data.

Further in some instances the pattern recognition may take into account contextual information that does not include an inquiry or initiation of an action from a user. For example the pattern recognition may use a location environment and or setting of a user to determine when the user has for example arrived at a particular location. Upon arrival at the particular location information may have been presented that is relevant to that location e.g. provided a boarding pass upon arrival at an airport . In this example the extracted context information may provide insights into understanding of the data for example by highlighting a meaning concept and or intent.

Generally contextual information may comprise any type of information that aids in understanding the meaning of a data. In some instances contextual information is expressed as a value of one or more variables such as whether or not a user has signed in with a site e.g. is signed in true or is signed in false . Contextual information may be stored in a context data store. Example non limiting pieces of contextual information may include 

Various embodiments contemplate integrating user direction into clustering system . For example user direction may comprise a type of human coaching of the system. For example a human may be able to quickly coach the system to cluster the data in a meaningful and or useful way much quicker than traditional coding of statistical methods provide. Various embodiments contemplate iterating the clustering of the data. For example a smaller set of data may be clustered and the results may be evaluated. Based on this evaluation additional features may be added removed or substituted. Using the smaller set of data a larger set of data may be processed using the updated additional features. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate receiving user direction to select change and or include various clustering algorithms.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate the user direction may be used to set modify eliminate and or adjust portions of the preprocessor . For example a user may change certain stop words to be eliminated add mappings weight various contextual features ignore certain intents and or combinations thereof among others.

Additionally or alternatively shows a preprocessor that may comprise a feature set extractor . For example a feature set extractor may extract features from the data. For example the feature set extractor may comprise a string generator that may generate a string that represents each data of the data to be grouped . For example a string that represents a data entry may include the data entry a portion of the data entry additional features or combinations thereof. For example also shows a remove add features unit where for example elements present in the data that does not help to compare or contrast the data may be removed. For example stop words may be removed in a natural language setting similar to the example discussed above with respect to data clustering. Additionally or alternatively features may be added to the feature sets. For example in the context of a natural language situation it may be beneficial to add metaphones and or bigrams trigrams etc. of words in the data to better generalize the terms in the data. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate leveraging mappings similar to the example discussed above with respect to the data clustering.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the bucket model may generate a model of the buckets. Various embodiments contemplate that the bucket model may comprise a statistical model a classification model or combinations thereof. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the feature set model may generate a model of the feature sets. Various embodiments contemplate that the feature set model may comprise a statistical model a classification model or combinations thereof. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the assignor may assign feature sets to buckets based at least upon the bucket model and the feature set model . Various embodiments contemplate that the assignor may assign feature sets to buckets based on mathematical statistical geometrical and or other approaches. For example a feature set from the feature set model may be compared to the bucket model based on a Euclidian distance model in n space. For example a feature set may be associated with the closest bucket based at least in part on a distance between the two in the Euclidian space. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate determining a distance based at least in part on a Chebyshev distance along the most significant dimension a Hamming distance based the difference bit by bit of two strings a Mahalanobis distance that may be normalized based on a covariance matrix to make the distance metric scale invariant a Manhattan distance along axis aligned directions a Minkowski distance or combinations thereof.

The bucketed data may be evaluated in the bucketed data evaluator . For example the bucketed data may be evaluated using various techniques. For example the bucketed data may be compared against various models by model comparator . Various embodiments contemplate that a model for comparison may be one or more statistical models. Various embodiments contemplate providing a confidence level that one or more data associated with a bucket is a best match for that bucket. For example a model may suggest that one entry associated with a first bucket may have a higher confidence level of being associated with a second bucket.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate displaying the bucketed data in one or more forms to a user by the results display unit . For example the results display may provide a user with a graphical representation of the bucketed data distribution. Various embodiments contemplate a displaying the bucketed data via a heat map. For example a display may show buckets grouped by the number of bucket members where buckets with a relative amount to other buckets are grouped. For example buckets may be separated into groups with small medium and large number of members. Various embodiments contemplate that bucket members may be related to or the same as the amount of data associated with the respective bucket. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate displaying the bucketed information in a hierarchal fashion where buckets may be listed by name or other configuration where sub buckets may be shows below and or as part of the parent bucket. A host of other ways of displaying the bucketed data are contemplated by this disclosure as one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize and do not stray from the scope of this disclosure.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate displaying data associated with the model comparator with the bucketed data. For example the results display may provide an indication that a portion of the data associated with a bucket has a strong weak or moderate confidence of association with the bucket. Various embodiments contemplate indicating this information by way of color codes pie chart symbols percentages lists other visual or auditory indications or combinations thereof.

Additionally or alternatively a bucket may be modified by defining additional criteria for the bucket. For example in a natural language setting a string could be added that models the type of input or data that should be associated with the bucket. The string may include wildcards place holders mappings order requirements proximity requirements or combinations thereof among other possibilities.

Based at least in part on the bucket definition input bucket features for example bucket strings may be modified by the bucket feature modification unit . For example if a piece of data is associated with a first bucket the bucket string representing the first bucket may be modified or regenerated to include information about the piece of data to be included. Various embodiments contemplate that the bucket string representing the second bucket that the piece of data had been may be modified or regenerated to exclude the piece of data from the associated bucket. Similarly the bucket strings may be modified or regenerated to capture the modifications of the buckets captured in the additional criteria added as discussed above.

Additionally or alternatively a filter may be applied by the filter application . For example it may be beneficial to limit the buckets evaluated and or subsequently run by filtering out certain buckets and or data. For example it may be beneficial to limit the data to be bucketized to data that was unassigned previously.

Various embodiments contemplate that a user may provide some direction for example in the areas demarked by the broken line indicating user direction . While this is not the exclusive area where a user may provide direction and input various embodiments contemplate that a large portion of the user direction and or input may come in the form of interaction with these units.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate additional application and or runs of the system . For example various embodiments contemplate that the modified bucket features for example strings may be used as the bucket features for example bucket strings of the bucket generator that may be used to compare to the data to be grouped . Various embodiments contemplate that the data to be grouped may comprise unassigned data as previously designated in bucketed data . Additionally or alternatively the data to be grouped may be a set of data different from the original data to be grouped . For example various embodiments contemplate taking a large corpus of data selecting a subset of the data may be random or strategic selection applying a first bucket generation to match the selected subset of the data to the buckets of the first bucket generation and modifying the bucket definitions based at least on the results. Various embodiments contemplate using the modified bucket definitions to compare against a second subset of data from the large corpus of data and adjusting the bucket definitions based at least in part on the results. Various embodiments contemplate a limited number of iterations to a large number of iterations depending on the needs and desires of the user. However the system has demonstrated the ability to rapidly and accurately scale to large corpuses of data with few iterations.

In at least one configuration the computing device includes at least one processor and system memory . The processor s may execute one or more modules and or processes to cause the computing device to perform a variety of functions. In some embodiments the processor s may include a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU both CPU and GPU or other processing units or components known in the art. Additionally each of the processor s may possess its own local memory which also may store program modules program data and or one or more operating systems.

Depending on the exact configuration and type of the computing device the system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory miniature hard drive memory card or the like or some combination thereof. The system memory may include an operating system one or more program modules and may include program data . The operating system includes a component based framework that supports components including properties and events objects inheritance polymorphism reflection and provides an object oriented component based application programming interface API . The computing device is of a very basic illustrative configuration demarcated by a dashed line . Again a terminal may have fewer components but may interact with a computing device that may have such a basic configuration.

Program modules may include but are not limited to a clusterer a classifier a conversation analyzer a concordancer applications and or other components .

The computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example the computing device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

The storage devices and any associated computer readable media may provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data. Computer readable media includes at least two types of computer readable media namely computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other non transmission medium that may be used to store information for access by a computing device.

In contrast communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission mechanism. As defined herein computer storage media does not include communication media.

Moreover the computer readable media may include computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor s perform various functions and or operations described herein.

The computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers a printer etc. may also be included.

The computing device may also contain communication connections that allow the device to communicate with other computing devices such as over a network. By way of example and not limitation communication media and communication connections include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connections and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The communication connections are some examples of communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules etc.

The illustrated computing device is only one example of a suitable device and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the various embodiments described. Other well known computing devices systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes game consoles programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices implementations using field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and application specific integrated circuits ASICs and or the like.

The implementation and administration of a shared resource computing environment on a single computing device may enable multiple computer users to concurrently collaborate on the same computing task or share in the same computing experience without reliance on networking hardware such as but not limited to network interface cards hubs routers servers bridges switches and other components commonly associated with communications over the Internet as well without reliance on the software applications and protocols for communication over the Internet.

Additionally or alternatively the computing device may be in communication with one or more search engine computing devices via for example network .

Communication connection s are accessible by processor s to communicate data to and from the one or more search engine computing devices over a network such as network . Search engine computing devices may be configured to perform the search using one or more search engines . Search engines may be a generic search engine such as Bing Google or Yahoo a combination of search engines or a custom search engine configured to operate in conjunction with the system . Search engines may also be a specialized form of a search engine such as Bing Maps or Google image search.

It should be understood that system may be used in an environment or in a configuration of specialized computer systems. Examples include a personal computer a server computer a handheld device or a portable device a tablet device a multi processor system a microprocessor based system a set up box a programmable customer electronic device a network PC and a distributed computing environment including any system or device above.

For ease of understanding the processes discussed in this disclosure are delineated as separate operations represented as independent blocks. However these separately delineated operations should not be construed as necessarily order dependent in their performance. The order in which the processes are described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described process blocks may be combined in any order to implement the process or an alternate process. Moreover it is also possible that one or more of the provided operations may be modified or omitted.

The processes are illustrated as a collection of blocks in logical flowcharts which represent a sequence of operations that may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. For discussion purposes the processes are described with reference to the system shown in . However the processes may be performed using different architectures and devices.

At an indication may be received from a user that a first portion of the first data set is associated with a bucket. Various embodiments contemplate that the indication may comprise an action by a user for example the user may drag and drop a representation of the data into a bucket the user may speak or otherwise gesture indicating the association. Additionally or alternatively the user may generate a pattern that may cause the first data set is associated with a user. Various embodiments contemplate that the indication may be based at least in part on an evaluation by the user of at least one of the recommended groupings. Various embodiments contemplate that the indication may comprise a selection of one or more inputs affirmatively associated with the bucket. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the indication may comprise a selection of one or more subunits of one or more inputs affirmatively associated with the bucket. For example the selection of one or more subunits of the one or more inputs may comprise a pattern identified in the one or more inputs.

At a classification model may be generated. Various embodiments contemplate that the classification model may be based at least in part on the indication.

At the data may be classified generating classified data. Various embodiments contemplate that the classification may be based at least in part on applying the classification model to a second data set. Various embodiments contemplate that at least a portion of the classified data may be associated with the bucket.

At another recommended grouping of clustered data may be provided. Various embodiments contemplate that the other recommended groupings may be based at least in part on clustering data of the subset of data of the first data set.

At another indication may be received from a user a first portion of the subset of data of the first data set is associated with another bucket. Various embodiments contemplate that the other indication may be based at least in part on an another evaluation by the user of at least one of the another recommended groupings.

At another classification model may be generated. Various embodiments contemplate that the other classification model may be based at least in part on the another indication.

At another classified data may be generated. Various embodiments contemplate that the other classified data may be based at least in part on applying the another classification model to the second data set.

At a classification recommendation may be evaluated. For example the classification may compare the results of the plurality of classification models applied to the data set. Various embodiments contemplate that the classification recommendation may be based at least in part on the plurality of classification models. Various embodiments contemplate that the classification recommendation may further comprise a first confidence associated with the first suggested classification and a second confidence associated with the second suggested classification.

At the classification recommendation may be displayed. Various embodiments contemplate that the classification recommendation may comprise an input a first suggested classification and a second suggested classification. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate display the classification recommendations at runtime where a clarification question may be displayed seeking input from a user to clarify or select an answer to a question or otherwise resolve a different between two or more classification models.

At an indication may be received from a user that first suggested classification is a correct classification of the input. Various embodiments contemplate that the indication may be based at least in part on an evaluation by the user of at least a portion of the classification recommendation. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the indication may comprise a selection of one or more subunits of one or more inputs affirmatively associated with the bucket. For example the selection of one or more subunits of the one or more inputs may comprise a pattern identified in the one or more inputs.

Additionally or alternatively the clustering algorithm may associate units of the set of data that are dissimilar to separate clusters. For example a dissimilarity threshold may be set and if a confidence factor is below the dissimilarity threshold then the clustering algorithm may associate the units with separate clusters.

Additionally or alternatively the clustering algorithm may associate units of the set of data that are similar to subclusters within a cluster. For example if a confidence factor is between a low and high threshold range the units may be associated with a subcluster within a cluster.

Additionally or alternatively the clustering algorithm may ignore a portion of the data set based at least in part on a subject context. For example the context of the data may cause certain features to regularly appear in the data however the certain features do not aid in clustering comparing and or contrasting the data. For example in the context of a natural language setting an organizational name may appear but does not help to distinguish different intents of users. For example Gonzaga may be removed as a stop word as part of a Gonzaga University database.

At a display may display to a user a confidence that a portion of the set of data should be associated with a cluster. Various embodiments contemplate that the confidence may be based at least in part on a model for example a statistical model.

At a receiver module may receive an indication from a user that a first portion of the set of data clustered is meaningful a second portion of the set of data is superficial or a combination thereof. Various embodiments contemplate that the meaningful indication and superficial indication may be based at least in part on a human cognitive trigger.

Various embodiments contemplate that the indication that the first portion is meaningful may comprise selecting the first portion highlighting the first portion underlining the first portion checking one or more boxes associated with the first portion un checking one or more boxes associated with the first portion touching the first portion speaking the first portion typing the first portion or a combination thereof.

Various embodiments contemplate that the indication that the second portion is superficial may comprise selecting the second portion crossing out the second portion highlighting the second portion underlining the second portion checking one or more boxes associated with the second portion un checking one or more boxes associated with the second portion touching the second portion speaking the second portion typing the second portion or a combination thereof.

At the clustering module may cluster the set of data based at least in part on the clustering algorithm and the first weight associated with the first portion and ignoring the second portion. Various embodiments contemplate that the clustering algorithm may be based at least in part on a human trained algorithm. For example human trained may include regression testing adding to the model by a human modifying the model by a human or combinations thereof. Additionally or alternatively the modifying of a model by a human may comprise the human directing specific data to be associated with a group. Various embodiments contemplate that the direction of specific data may comprise indicating that a portion of existing data is to be associated with a given group and or bucket creating a classification that causes a portion of existing data to be associated with the given group and or bucket creating examples of data that are to be associated with the given group and or bucket without specifically referencing existing data or combinations thereof.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the set of data may comprise words phrases sentence fragments sentences documents photos images DNA sequences sounds gestures databases language models files waves mathematical patterns equations colors tastes touches haptic feedback temperatures models medical histories test results symptoms disease states drug treatments behavioral patterns handwriting patterns languages tomes writing styles scents smells writing styles human motion gait walking patterns gestures animal motions plant motions microbe motions muscle motions heart palpitations voices eyes finger prints identifications or combinations thereof.

At when the first model is different from the second model a clarification question for a user to select may be generated. Various embodiments contemplate that the clarification question may comprise a question asking a user to select an appropriate answer to an input statement.

At when an indication is received from a user that the first model is correct the second model may be updated based at least in part on the indication from the user. Additionally or alternatively the indication may be used to set criteria when integrating the first and or second model into a third model for example a bucket model.

At when an indication is received from a user that the second model is correct the first model may be updated based at least in part on the indication from the user. Additionally or alternatively the indication may be used to set criteria when integrating the first and or second model into a third model for example a bucket model.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the first model may comprise a symbolic language model and or a statistical model while the second model may comprise a symbolic language and or a statistical language model.

At the data may be clustered based at least in part on a clustering algorithm to create clustered data comprising data associated with a cluster and data not associated with a cluster.

At an input from a user may be received. The input may indicate that a first portion of the clustered data not associated with a cluster is meaningful data a second portion of the clustered data not associated with a cluster is superficial data or a combination thereof. Various embodiments contemplate that the user may comprise a human and advisor a quality controller a proofer a validator or combinations thereof.

Various embodiments contemplate that the indication that the first portion is meaningful may comprise selecting the first portion highlighting the first portion underlining the first portion checking one or more boxes associated with the first portion un checking one or more boxes associated with the first portion touching the first portion speaking the first portion typing the first portion or a combination thereof.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the indication that the second portion is superficial comprises selecting the second portion crossing out the second portion highlighting the second portion underlining the second portion checking one or more boxes associated with the second portion un checking one or more boxes associated with the second portion touching the second portion speaking the second portion typing the second portion or a combination thereof.

At a first weight factor may be associated with the first portion and a second weight factor associated with the second portion. Various embodiments contemplate that the first weight factor is greater than the second weight factor. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the first weight factor is greater than the second weight factor and the second weight factor is zero.

At the data may be clustered based at least in part on the clustering algorithm the first weight factor and second weight factor.

Various embodiments contemplate that the data may comprise words phrases sentence fragments sentences documents photos images DNA sequences sounds gestures databases language models files waves mathematical patterns equations colors tastes touches haptic feedback temperatures models medical histories test results symptoms disease states drug treatments behavioral patterns handwriting patterns languages tomes writing styles scents smells writing styles human motion gait walking patterns gestures animal motions plant motions microbe motions muscle motions heart palpitations voices eyes finger prints identifications or combinations thereof.

At an indication may be received from a user that the portion of the provisionally grouped data belongs in a first group or an indication from the user that the portion of the provisionally grouped data belongs in a second group. Various embodiments contemplate that the indication may based at least in part on a trigger of the user an experience of the user an understanding of the user a recognition of the user or a combination thereof. 1. Various embodiments contemplate that the indication from a user may comprise an indication that the portion of the provisionally grouped data belongs in a subgroup of the first group or second group where for example the subgroup not the same as one of the clusters.

At the set of data may be clustered based at least in part by emulating the user. Various embodiments contemplate emulating the user is based at least in part on the indication from the user. For example the indication from the user may be extrapolated and applied to additional data to associate portions of the additional data to an appropriate cluster.

At when the first model agrees with the second model the first model may be validated for use. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that either or both of the models may be validated when both models agree. Various embodiments contemplate that the agreement of the first model with the second model may comprise a first score associated with the first model and a second score associated with the second model being within a threshold range.

At when the first model is different from the second model within a first threshold difference a first clarification question for a user to select may be generated and the first model may be updated based at least in part on a selection of an answer to the first clarification question. Various embodiments contemplate that the first clarification question may comprise a question asking a user to select an appropriate answer to an input statement.

At when the first model is different from the second model within a second threshold difference and without the first threshold difference a second clarification question for the user to select may be generated and the first model may be updated based at least in part on a selection of an answer to the second clarification question. Various embodiments contemplate that the second clarification question may comprise a question asking a user to select an appropriate restatement of an input statement the appropriate restatement of the input being a leading and or clarified restatement of the input statement.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the first model comprises a symbolic language model and the second model comprises a statistical language model. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the first and second models comprise symbolic languages. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the first and second models comprise statistical models.

At the system may determine whether a difference exists between the models. If a difference does not exist then at the first model may be validated for use. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that either or both of the models may be validated when both models agree. Various embodiments contemplate that the agreement of the first model with the second model may comprise a first score associated with the first model and a second score associated with the second model being within a threshold range.

At if the difference is not beyond the threshold then at a first clarification question may be generated for a user to select. Various embodiments contemplate that the first clarification question may comprise a question asking a user to select an appropriate answer to an input statement.

At the first model may be updated based at least in part on a selection of an answer to the first clarification question.

At if the difference is beyond a threshold then at a second clarification question may be generated for the user to select. Various embodiments contemplate that the second clarification question may comprise a question asking a user to select an appropriate restatement of an input statement the appropriate restatement of the input being a leading and or clarified restatement of the input statement.

At the first model may be updated based at least in part on a selection of an answer to the second clarification question.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the first model comprises a symbolic language model and the second model comprises a statistical language model. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the first and second models comprise symbolic languages. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the first and second models comprise statistical models.

At one or more data signatures may be generated for the selected data. For example the data signatures may comprise signature strings. Various embodiments contemplate that the data signatures may be based at least in part on one or more of units of data input patterns of data order and proximity of terms or combinations thereof.

Various embodiments contemplate that the generating the one or more data signatures may comprise several features. For example at one or more string representations of the selected data may be generated.

At one or more undesirable portions may be removed from the one or more string representations based at least in part on the selected data a language model a domain or a combination thereof. For example stop words may be removed from a string representation.

At one or more desirable portions may be added to the one or more string representations based at least in part on the selected data the language model the domain or a combination thereof. For example metaphones bigrams trigrams or others of words or phrases of the data may be added to increase the effectiveness of the clustering. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate leveraging mapping as well. For example various specific terms may be related to a more generalized term where the more generalized term may be substituted each time one of the various specific terms is found.

At one or more clusters may be generated based at least in part on the one or more data signatures. Various embodiments contemplate that concepts and in some cases intents may be identified based at least in part on the generated clusters. Various embodiments contemplate that the one or more clusters may comprise structured data comprising one or more cluster signatures comprising a string associated with an original portion of selected data. Various embodiments contemplate that the one or more clusters may further comprise a link to the original portion of selected data. Various embodiments contemplate that linking to the original portion of selected data may be beneficial for post processing and inspection. For example it may be beneficial to review the underlying original data when examining clusters.

At additional data may be selected. Various embodiments contemplate that the additional data may be related or unrelated to the input data selected at . Additionally or alternatively the amount of additional data selected may be larger or smaller than the size of the input data selected at .

At one or more additional clusters may be generated based at least in part on the one or more additional data signatures the one or more data signatures the one or more clusters the one or more cluster signatures or a combination thereof.

Various embodiments contemplate additional clustering approaches. For example selected data may be clustered based at least in part on one or more data signatures. Various embodiments contemplate that clustering may comprise distributing portions of the selected data to one or more clustering nodes. Various embodiments contemplate that the portions of the selected data may be in the form of data signatures. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the clustering may further comprise receiving clustered data from the one or more clustering nodes. For example the clustered data may comprise a reduced data set representative of the distributed selected data to the one or more clustering nodes. Various embodiments contemplate that the clustered data may represent a statistical representation of the clustered data. For example the reduced data set may comprise one or more cluster signatures associated with a portion of the distributed selected data.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the clustering may further comprise distributing portions of the received clustered data to the one or more clustering nodes. Various embodiments contemplate that the data distributed may further comprise portions of selected data not previously clustered. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the clustering may further comprise receiving clustered data from the one or more clustering nodes. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the clustering may further comprise repeating the distributing and receiving until a threshold is met threshold comprising one or more of a number of clusters created a number of iterations performed or a combination thereof.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate receiving an indication from a user that a first portion of the clustered data associated with a first cluster is inaccurate the indication comprising an indication that a first portion of a unit of the selected data is meaningful and a second portion of the unit of the selected data is superficial. A first weight may be assigned to the first portion.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate distributing portions of the received clustered data with the first weight to the one or more clustering nodes and receiving clustered data from the one or more clustering nodes. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate repeating the distributing and receiving until a threshold is met threshold comprising one or more of a number of clusters created a number of iterations performed or a combination thereof.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate receiving an indication from a user that a first portion of the clustered data associated with a first cluster is inaccurate the indication comprising affirmatively associating the first portion of the clustered data a second cluster. Various embodiments contemplate updating and or recreating one or more data signatures associated with the first cluster and one or more data signatures associated with the second cluster. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate adjusting the underlying data to capture correction of the association.

Various embodiments contemplate additional grouping and or bucketing approaches. For example one or more buckets may be defined. For example the one or more buckets may comprise one or more bucket patterns based at least in part on one or more cluster patterns input data patterns or a combination thereof. Various embodiments contemplate that the defining of one or more buckets may further comprise receiving an input data pattern from a user. The data pattern may be generated in situ by the user or selected from a database.

Various embodiments contemplate that the one or more buckets may comprise a bucket hierarchy. For example the bucket hierarchy may comprise one or more parent buckets with one or more child buckets associated within a parent bucket of the one or more parent buckets. Additionally or alternatively the bucket hierarchy may comprise one or more buckets with one or more sub buckets associated within a bucket of the one or more buckets where the bucket hierarchy may comprise one or more sub sub buckets associated within a sub bucket of the one or more sub buckets.

Various embodiments contemplate selecting input data. Various embodiments contemplate that the data may be formatted partially formatted unformatted or combinations thereof. Additionally or alternatively the data may be structured partially structured unstructured or combinations thereof. Additionally or alternatively the data may be filtered partially filtered unfiltered or combinations thereof.

Various embodiments contemplate defining one or more data signatures based at least in part on the selected input data.

Various embodiments contemplate associating a portion of the selected input data with the one or more buckets based at least in part on comparing a data signature of the one or more data signatures to a bucket pattern of the one or more bucket patterns.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate generating a bucket model that may comprise an evaluation of the input data associated with a matched bucket. For example the bucket model may comprise a statistical model representing an accuracy of the input data associated with the matched bucket the statistical model based at least in part on bucket patterns input data patterns or combinations thereof.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate suggesting a bucket for an unassigned input data based at least in part on the bucket model.

Various embodiments contemplate additional clustering grouping and or bucketing approaches. Various embodiments contemplate receiving a request to generate buckets.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate generating buckets based at least in part on one or more bucket patterns based at least in part on one or more cluster patterns for example cluster signatures input data patterns or a combination thereof.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate assigning selected input data to the buckets based at least in part on the one or more bucket patterns input data patterns or combinations thereof.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate displaying on a display one or more views comprising and unassigned list view an auto cluster view a suggested buckets view or combinations thereof.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate displaying on a display a graphical representation indicating a relative size of a bucket with respect to another bucket of the buckets. For example the display may take the form of a heat map a bucket hierarchy or combinations thereof among others.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate generating a bucket model based at least in part on a statistical model representing an accuracy of the selected input data associated with an assigned bucket the statistical model based at least in part on bucket patterns input data patterns or combinations thereof.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate displaying on a display bucket accuracy indicators the bucket accuracy indicators comprising a best match a best match to another bucket in a bucket hierarchy a lack of a best match no match or a combination thereof.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate receiving an indication from a user that a first input data pattern associated with a first bucket should be associated with a second bucket. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate updating one or more bucket patterns associated with the first bucket and one or more bucket patterns associated with the second bucket.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate testing the bucket model with example test input data.

Various embodiments contemplate allowing users to analyze large amounts of data. For example a user in a first instance may readily and rapidly determine what data is alike and what data is different with respect to a first set of criteria or first view point. Additionally the user in a second instance may readily and rapidly determine what data is alike and what data is different with respect to a second set of criteria or second view point. In these examples the user may use the same data in the first and second instances or may use subsets of the data in each or either instance.

For example various embodiments contemplate helping the user to understand how a set of inputs relate to each other. Various embodiments contemplate grouping certain inputs into groups for example buckets of similar characteristics. For example a set of natural language inputs may be grouped into buckets of similar intents.

Various embodiments contemplate allowing a user to view and or analyze data in an aggregate form. While data may still be analyzed one by one in various embodiments viewing and or analyzing the data in an aggregated form may provide additional efficiency in analyzing and or understanding the data. For example this may allow a user to approach the data and identify any problem areas represented by the data from a holistic approach and may further allow a strategic approach to refine or resolve the identified problems. For example in a natural language setting a user analyzing a large dataset of conversations from a helpline call or chat may holistically identify problem areas of the underlying service and allow the user to strategically address those areas identified for example by addressing the most frequent problems first.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate providing groupings based on recommended groupings of input data based in part on clustering methods for example agglomerative clustering providing groupings based on human emulating grouping methods for example leveraging user input providing one or more example groupings or combinations thereof.

Various embodiments contemplate providing various structures to accommodate disparate datasets. For example a first dataset may be related to a first customer while a second data set may be related to a second customer. Additionally or alternatively a third dataset may contain a first type of data for example natural language data while a fourth dataset may contain a second type of data for example video.

Various embodiments contemplate data may include but is not limited to the set of data comprises words phrases sentence fragments sentences documents photos images DNA sequences sounds gestures databases language models files waves mathematical patterns equations colors tastes touches haptic feedback temperatures models medical histories test results symptoms disease states drug treatments behavioral patterns handwriting patterns languages tomes writing styles scents smells writing styles human motion gait walking patterns gestures animal motions plant motions microbe motions muscle motions heart palpitations voices eyes finger prints identifications or combinations thereof.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate providing control features to allow or prevent accessing various datasets. For example a first user may have permissions to access a first and second customer s datasets but not a third customer s dataset while a second user may have permission to access the second customer s dataset only.

Various embodiments contemplate importing various types of data. For example shows an example of data in the form of sentences to be imported.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate importing data in various forms. For example the data to be imported may be structured unstructured partially structured or combinations thereof. For example a dataset may comprise multiple pieces of data related to each other. For example a spreadsheet may comprise three columns of data where each row may not be in any particular order but within each row the column data may be related. Additionally or alternatively the data may have some grouping information included. Continuing with the preceding example of spreadsheet data the data may specify that the first 10 rows are grouped together while rows 11 15 and 20 32 are grouped together. Additionally or alternatively the data may have some hierarchal information included. Continuing with the preceding example of grouped spreadsheet data the data may specify that rows 4 6 are a subset group of the group comprising rows 1 3 and 7 10 as well as rows 35 56 are a subset group of the group comprising rows 11 15 and 20 32.

Various embodiments contemplate importing FPML data while preserving or leveraging information contained in the FPML data.

Additionally or alternatively certain data may be imported while other is not. For example only certain data may be imported while other data is not. For example if importing from a spreadsheet only columns A B and D or imported. Additionally or alternatively filters may be applied to limit importation. For example a filter may be applied to exclude units from importation. Additionally or alternatively a filter may be applied to only import units that match a designated pattern.

Various embodiments contemplate providing various views of the data. For example an Unassigned List View where inputs in a dataset that have not been grouped and or bucketed are displayed an Auto Cluster View where inputs in the dataset may be grouped by key words and or ideas in the set are displayed a Suggested Buckets View where inputs in the dataset may be grouped by suggested bucket based on a classifier model a List Search Results where the last search that the user performed is displayed a Pattern Search Results where the last pattern that the user ran is displayed.

Various embodiments contemplate applying filters to the displayed data. For example a filter may be created by a user based on a user s criteria. For example a user may set multiple criteria in a single filter. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate applying one or more filters to vary levels of data aggregation. For example a filter may be applied to the dataset for example all of the imported data a subset of the dataset for example the data to be grouped metadata associated with the data to be grouped or combinations thereof an aggregation of the data for example across the groups and or buckets. For example a filter may be applied to sentence data in a natural language setting. For example if a filter is set to contain a specific word for example Spokane then data containing the word would be displayed. Additionally or alternatively a filter may be applied to data within a group and or bucket. Continuing the preceding example the filter of Spokane may be applied to the group of data classified as unassigned inputs where data containing the word Spokane and classified as unassigned would be displayed. Additionally or alternatively the filter of Spokane could be applied to a group and or bucket designated as Location where data containing the word Spokane in the group and or bucket designated as Location would be displayed. Additionally or alternatively a filter may be applied to the group and or bucket designations. For example a filter set to Spokane would cause buckets with the term in the name to be displayed. For example Spokane Valley Spokane Area Spokane Airport etc.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate returning search results based on a search. Various embodiments contemplate providing simple keyword searches as well as formatted searches of multiple terms that may have an order and or proximity defined.

Various embodiments contemplate clustering a set of inputs based on similarities. For example a set of inputs may be clustered according to various algorithms. Various embodiments contemplate that the clustered data may generate groups and or buckets. Additionally or alternatively the clustered data may provide useful insights to a user as to the structure and composition of the data. Various embodiments contemplate using vocabulary terms to generalize and or specify various potential inputs. Additionally or alternatively concepts types and or other features may be used to enhance the effectiveness of the clustering. Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate removing and or ignoring certain features when clustering. For example in a natural language setting some words may be used frequently and are not helpful in grouping the data. For example the term the may not be helpful and may be ignored. Additionally or alternatively in a natural language setting dealing with a specific subject for example an organization the organization s name may not be helpful in determining useful groupings and may be ignored.

Various embodiments contemplate clustering a set of inputs a subset of inputs or combinations thereof. For example a clustering procedure may be applied to all of the inputs loaded. Additionally or alternatively the clustering procedure may be applied to a subset of the inputs loaded. For example the clustering procedure might be applied to metadata associated with the loaded inputs the sentence data of the loaded inputs an intent associated with the loaded inputs a concept associated with the loaded inputs or combinations thereof. Additionally or alternatively the clustering procedure may be applied to a category of data for example data contained in a previously designated group and or bucket data that has not been designated a group and or bucket for example unassigned data or combinations thereof.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate creating clusters with a hierarchy. For example a clustering procedure may produce a single level of clusters. However a clustering procedure may be configured to produce clusters with sub clusters.

Various embodiments contemplate the level of clustering. For example various criteria may be used to determine when the clustering procedure will end. For example various embodiments contemplate that a maximum number of inputs in a given cluster may be set. For example a cluster member maximum threshold may be set to 100. When a cluster reaches the cluster member maximum during the clustering procedure the clustering procedure ends and returns the resulting clusters. Additionally or alternatively a minimum number of clusters may be set. For example using an agglomerative clustering method a large number of clusters exist where as the clustering procedure continues and data is clustered with other data the total number of clusters is reduced until the minimum number of cluster threshold is reached. Various embodiments contemplate that this may reduce over clustering and or over simplification of the data.

Various embodiments contemplate various clustering approaches and techniques. For example hierarchical clustering may be used to discover features of data. Various embodiments contemplate using agglomerative hierarchical clustering. Various embodiments contemplate that a benefit of this approach may allow the clustering procedure to perform at near linear time complexity. Various embodiments contemplate that this may be a material improvement over both the O n3 time complexity of the naive algorithm and the O n2 complexity of other heap based and average distance agglomerative methods. Various embodiments contemplate that this may allow for processing large data sets for example large text corpora.

Hierarchical clustering may be use as a part of algorithms that use an ordered tree of objects to process. These algorithms may be used when a series of unconnected objects with no explicit ordering is evaluated. A goal of hierarchical clustering may be to generate a tree of nested clusters that links the data according to some distance function sometimes known as a dissimilarity function . Algorithms using hierarchical data can be used in bioinformatics image processing computational geometry and computational linguistics to name a few areas.

In general hierarchical clustering may use a monotonic similarity function that can be applied to each pair of clusters to produce a measure of the similarity of the two clusters. typically the function is one of the following types 

Often hierarchical clustering algorithms come primarily in two forms top down and bottom up. Essentially these algorithms generate the same result but through different methods.

For example top down clustering often called divisive clustering often starts by adding all of the data points to a single cluster and then dividing the cluster by looking for internal clusters with maximal separation. Then the sub clusters are split to form new clusters and the algorithm continues until the sub clusters contain only one data point.

Additionally or alternatively bottom up clustering also known as agglomerative clustering often starts by making each data point into its own cluster. These separate clusters may be joined by finding the most similar sub clusters and joining them into higher level clusters. In the canonical algorithm the process continues until all the data is in one cluster. In practice clustering may be thresholded so that clusters that are far apart are not joined. Often the result then will be a number of trees that are rooted in different top level clusters.

Often the naive agglomerative clustering algorithm is simple to code but has O n3 time complexity often making it less suitable for realistic data sets in the text processing realm. Additionally there are some simple techniques for coding an O n2 time complexity implementation.

In general agglomerative methods use a similar mechanism for example a similarity test. Similarity tests can take many forms but they often provide a way of measuring how similar different cluster are to each other. The similarity measure can be thought of as an inverse distance. For example one valid similarity measure is an inverse Euclidian distance 1 1 

The flowing is an illustrative algorithm showing an example of a local order agglomerative clustering.

A fast bottom up clustering using local ordering may be used in clustering various types of data. For example this algorithm and comparative results may be used in the domain of rendering as well as the processing of text image sound etc. Often local order agglomerative clustering may provide a method for building the clustering implementation with a time complexity slightly greater than O n .

Various embodiments contemplate displaying the clustered data. For example data that has been organized by similarity for example similar language may be displayed to communicate the volume of inputs in each cluster. For example the clustered inputs may be classified as high medium and low volume clusters where the size of the cluster may represent the volume of inputs in that cluster. Various embodiments contemplate labeling a cluster with the primary features for example terms that the data are clustered around.

Additionally or alternatively filters may be applied to the clusters and or clustered data. For example a filter may be applied to the input data that will be clustered. This for example may limit which data is clustered influencing the resulting clusters. Additionally or alternatively the filter may be applied to the data already clustered limiting what data is displayed but not necessarily affecting the underlying clusters.

Various embodiments contemplate leveraging mappings. For example a dataset may contain elements that on the surface appear to be disparate but for the purposes of a given situation may be considered as a single element. As such when one or more of the disparate features appears for clustering and or grouping procedures a replacement feature may be substituted. For example in a natural language setting directed to a medical application terms such as Ritalin Prozac Xanax insulin aspirin may be mapped to the term medicine. This may allow data directed to the concept of medicine to be grouped together more readily.

Various embodiments contemplate that buckets may be containers that may be used to group inputs that share selected features. For example in a natural language environment an intent may be a selected feature that a group of inputs share. Various embodiments contemplate grouping inputs in a variety of ways. For example the buckets may be manually created imported or a combination thereof. For example a bucket may be given a descriptive name and may also include comments. Various embodiments contemplate that buckets may be searched filtered and or displayed based at least in part on the bucket name and or comments.

Additionally or alternatively sub buckets may be created. For example each bucket may have one or more children buckets. A possible benefit is that it allows organization of the buckets by topic area.

Various embodiments contemplate importing buckets from a list of buckets and bucket comments from a database from a Functional Presence Markup Language FPML file. Various embodiments contemplate that an intent of each unit if present may be imported into the bucket s comments and the test questions of each unit may be imported as well.

Various embodiments contemplate organizing the buckets manually automatically or combinations thereof.

Various embodiments contemplate that tags may be associated with buckets. Various embodiments contemplate that tags may provide for increased searching and or organizing efficiency and efficacy.

Various embodiments contemplate searching the buckets by part of a bucket name one or more bucket tags or combinations thereof.

Various embodiments contemplate various ways of populating a bucket. For example when viewing inputs in an unassigned list view a bucket view or a cluster view one or more of the inputs may be selected and moved to a selected bucket.

Additionally or alternatively various patterns may be identified and or assigned to a bucket. For example language that represents the key ideas or intent of each input can be flagged. The combination of words that represent the intent for an input may be referred to as a pattern. These patterns may be helpful as language models are built within the system.

Various embodiments contemplate allowing for searches of the buckets the data clusters or other structures with patterns. For example after associating patterns with a bucket those patterns may be used to find inputs that match that pattern. When looking for inputs that match a pattern the system may search both bucketed and unbucketed inputs. The results of the search may indicate whether the matching input is currently in a bucket or unbucketed.

Various embodiments contemplate using the pattern approach to group and or bucketize input data. For example a pattern model may be generated and run against the input data.

Various models contemplate building a classifier model that may be used to predict a bucket for inputs of a dataset. For example the classifier model may be generated based at least in part on a portion of input data being assigned to appropriate buckets. Various embodiments contemplate that as the number of inputs in the buckets increases the classifier model s suggestions will improve.

Various embodiments contemplate that patterns may be integrated with the classifier model to further strengthen the model.

Various embodiments contemplate using a subset of buckets when generating a model. For example there may be buckets that a user would like to exclude from a model. For example a user may designate an ignore these inputs buckets for various reasons. If a user decides to exclude one or more buckets a model may be generated without the specified one or more buckets.

Various embodiments contemplate viewing the results of the classifier model in various ways. For example a best bucket match a bucket pie chart suggested buckets and or a table view may be available.

For example the best bucket match view may provide metadata that is created for some or all inputs. If a selected statistical model matches the input to an existing bucket the bucket may be identified in view. Various embodiments contemplate that a meaningful match may or may not be returned for every input.

Various embodiments contemplate a bucket pie chart view that may provide a bucket pie chart created for each bucket included in the classifier model. The pie chart may allow visualization the some or all of following 

Various embodiments contemplate a suggested buckets view where unassigned inputs may be grouped by the best bucket column value in a view similar to the auto cluster view.

Various embodiments contemplate a table view where details about the total number of inputs in each bucket and a breakdown between green yellow red categories may be shown. A similar indication strategy may be used as discussed with respect to the bucket pie chart view.

Single or multiple classifiers may be run in various embodiments. For example multiple classifiers may be run where multiple results may be displayed at the same time.

Various embodiments contemplate classifying inputs by the language in the sentences. For example the data may be examined on a word term phrase sentence document or other basis. For example a set of terms may be selected and a breakdown by volume of terms in your data set may be returned.

Once a model is created preliminary testing may be performed to check for inputs may need to be added or corrected.

Various embodiments contemplate application to a wide variety of data. For example several of the example discussed in this disclose are directed to natural language applications. However it is understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the systems and methods discussed herein are readily available for application to other applications where patterns exist.

Additionally or alternatively various embodiments contemplate that the data may comprise words phrases sentence fragments sentences documents photos images sounds gestures databases language models files waves mathematical patterns equations colors tastes touches haptic feedback temperatures models medical histories test results symptoms disease states drug treatments behavioral patterns handwriting patterns languages tomes writing styles scents smells writing styles human motion gait walking patterns gestures animal motions plant motions microbe motions muscle motions heart palpitations voices identifications or combinations thereof.

As discussed above the power to recognize similarities and dissimilarities in patterns in speech sound audio among other types of data may be beneficial in many industries. For example the systems and processes discussed herein are may be integrated into various aspects of peoples lives. For example virtual assistants and artificial intelligence systems may be a deeply integrated with various aspects of the present system and processes. For example U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 293 529 filed on Jun. 2 2014 discusses applications and uses of virtual assistants among other features. The entire disclosure is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The subject matter described above can be implemented in hardware software or in both hardware and software. Although implementations have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. For example the methodological acts need not be performed in the order or combinations described herein and may be performed in any combination of one or more acts.

