---

title: Thermal swing reactor including a multi-flight auger
abstract: A thermal swing reactor including a multi-flight auger and methods for solar thermochemical reactions are disclosed. The reactor includes a multi-flight auger having different helix portions having different pitch. Embodiments of reactors include at least two distinct reactor portions between which there is at least a pressure differential. In embodiments, reactive particles are exchanged between portions during a reaction cycle to thermally reduce the particles at first conditions and oxidize the particles at second conditions to produce chemical work from heat.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09586190&OS=09586190&RS=09586190
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09586190
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140515
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 823 480 Multi Flight Auger for Solar Thermochemical Fuel Production filed May 15 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Embodiments of the invention were developed under Contract No. DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to a material conveyor and more particularly relates to a multi flight auger reactor for thermal swing processing.

Solar concentration systems typically entail optics mirrors or lenses to focus a large area of sunlight or solar thermal energy onto a small area. The solar thermal energy may drive a heat engine such as a steam turbine which may be further coupled to an electrical power generator to convert a portion of the solar thermal energy into electricity. Solar concentration systems may also drive a thermochemical reaction to generate a fuel that chemically stores a portion of the solar thermal energy. Water splitting gasification of coal and reforming of methane are all under investigation as potential solar thermochemical fuel production techniques. Solar concentration systems may drive other important reactions on an industrial scale as well such as COreduction into CO for example.

Many solar thermochemical reactions entail a redox cycle. In a water splitting reaction to produce hydrogen from water a metal oxide redox pair is thermally reduced and the reduced reactive media then drives decomposition of water. The metal oxide is then reduced again to repeat the cycle. While identifying advantageous metal oxides is currently a subject of research thermodynamic considerations dictate the thermal reduction portion of the cycle generally requires a high temperature typically between 1000 2000 C. depending on the reactive oxide chosen and other conditions in the system.

Solar thermochemical reactors can take many forms affording more or less efficient fuel production scalability etc. One conventional system utilizes a honeycomb substrate that is coated with the reactive oxide. The honeycomb substrate is alternately exposed to collected solar energy to heat the system and reduce the reactive oxide and to a reactant gas such as HO in the case of water splitting to generate fuel. Such a reactor is essentially a fixed bed and as such suffers temperature non uniformities and low thermal efficiency because much of the solar energy is expended on heating non reactive portions of the bed e.g. honeycomb substrate and is ultimately rejected from the system as waste heat rather than utilized for fuel production. Also with each redox cycle the entire system undergoes extreme thermal cycling leading to component fatigue.

Additionally other thermal swing process systems and methods may benefit from more cost efficient and productive systems and methods for heating the process material.

A system which avoids many of the difficulties and efficiency limitations associated with existing reactors would advantageously advance the art of thermal swing processing and in particular solar thermochemical fuel production.

According to an embodiment of the disclosure an apparatus is disclosed that includes a first reaction zone operating a first temperature a second reaction zone operating at a second temperature and a particle transport component capable of moving particles from the first reaction zone to the second reaction zone. The first reaction zone includes a window capable of receiving sunlight from a sunlight source and a high temperature zone heated by the received sunlight. The first reaction zone further includes a first auger within a casing and wherein the first auger comprises a flight that transports particles from a particle collection zone to the high temperature zone when the casing is rotated.

According to another embodiment of the disclosure a solar reactor system is disclosed that includes a solar collection system comprising at least one mirror and a swing reactor having an opening for receiving sunlight directed by the at least one mirror. The swing reactor includes a first reaction zone operating a first temperature a second reaction zone operating at a second temperature a particle transport component capable of moving particles from the first reaction zone to the second reaction zone. The first reaction zone includes s a window capable of receiving sunlight from a sunlight source and a high temperature zone heated by the received sunlight. The first reaction zone further includes a first auger in a casing and the first auger includes a flight that transports particles from a particle collection zone to the high temperature zone when the casing is rotated.

According to another embodiment of the disclosure a method is disclosed that includes transporting particles from a particle collection zone at a first temperature to a first reaction zone operating at a first reaction temperature by rotating a casing surrounding an auger having a flight capable of moving the particles transporting particles from the first reaction zone to a bottom portion of an inner cylinder of the auger transporting particles to a second reaction zone operating at a second reaction temperature less than the first reaction temperature. Heat is transferred from particles being transported from the first reaction zone to the bottom portion of the inner cylinder of the auger to particles being transported from the particle collection zone to the first reaction zone. The first reaction temperature is greater than the first temperature and the particles are heated to the first reaction temperature in the first reaction zone by concentrated solar energy.

An object of the present invention is to provide a reactor that conveys solid particulate materials between process volumes operating at different temperatures while conveying solid particulate materials between process volumes operating at different temperatures.

An advantage of the present invention is to increase process energy efficiency via heat recovery between process steps while conveying solid particulate materials between process volumes operating at different temperatures.

Other objects advantages and novel features and further scope of applicability of the present invention will be set forth in part in the detailed description to follow taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following or may be learned by practice of the invention. The objects and advantages of the invention may be realized and attained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

Described herein are multi flight auger reactors and methods for thermal swing processing. Thermal swing processes include thermochemical thermo adsorption and other process that include changing the physical and or chemical properties of a material by changing process temperature. Thermochemical systems and processes include but are not limited to the COand water splitting and associated fuel production processes. Thermo adsorption systems and processes include but are not limited to COand water capture.

In the following description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known methods and devices are shown in illustration form rather than in detail to avoid obscuring the present invention. Reference throughout this specification to an embodiment means that a particular feature structure function or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. Thus the appearances of the phrase in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment of the invention. Furthermore the particular features structures functions or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. For example a first embodiment may be combined with a second embodiment anywhere the two embodiments are not mutually exclusive.

The terms coupled and connected along with their derivatives may be used herein to describe structural relationships between components. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Rather in particular embodiments connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. Coupled my be used to indicated that two or more elements are in either direct or indirect with other intervening elements between them physical or electrical contact with each other and or that the two or more elements co operate or interact with each other e.g. as in a cause and effect relationship .

In this exemplary embodiment the reactor support is a cylindrical vertical support capable of elevating the thermal swing reactor and the component housing . In another embodiment the reactor support may be a tower or other structure capable of elevating the thermal swing reactor .

The solar collection system includes a plurality of mirrors and a reflector . In another embodiment the solar collection system may include one or more mirrors. The mirrors direct solar energy to the reflector where the concentrated solar energy is directed to the thermal swing reactor . The solar collection system may include control components for moving and or positioning the mirrors .

As can be seen in the swing reactor includes a particle heater reduction component a particle transport component and an oxidation reactor component . The particle heater reduction component may be referred to as the reduction reactor. The oxidation reactor component may be referred to as the oxidation reactor.

The reduction reactor includes a housing a casing and a stationary ramp device or auger . The housing includes an aperture having a window that allows sunlight to pass through with minimum attenuation and reach the interior of the housing and in particular to reach a top portion of the auger .

The casing is positioned within the housing and around the auger in such a manner as to allow the casing to rotate within the housing and around the auger . The casing has a top end and a bottom end . The top end may be referred to as the high temperature zone . The bottom end has a particle collection zone . The casing is coupled to a drive mechanism not shown capable of rotating the casing within the housing and around the auger .

The auger includes a spiral ramp or flight surrounding an inner cylinder . The inner cylinder includes an inner passage that has an entrance and a bottom collection zone .

When the casing is rotated particles are moved from the particle collection zone onto the flight and then up the flight towards the top end of the casing . The particles are pushed and by the force of the rotating casing moving the particles towards and up the flight as the casing continues to apply force against the particles . The particles are pushed to the high temperature zone where the particles are heated by concentrated solar energy. When the particles reach the top of the flight the particles are pushed by trailing particles into the entrance of the inner passage where the particles proceed to fall or travel down the inner passage to the bottom collection zone of the inner passage . In an embodiment the particles undergo a reduction reaction in the high temperature zone and reduced gas products may exit the high temperature zone via an exit .

As the particles pass down through the inner passage the particles transfer heat to particles being raised on the flight . The particles include the highest temperature particles A second highest temperature particles B third highest temperature particles C second coolest particles D these particles can be seen as the auger has been partially cut away to see the inner passage and coolest particles E. It should be noted that shows only a portion of the particles in order to simplify the drawing for clarity. In operation the internal space between the casing and the inner cylinder may be filled with particles.

The bottom collection zone has an outlet not shown that allows particles to pass into a conduit . The conduit transports particles to the oxidation reactor . The oxidation reactor includes a housing containing an oxidation zone . The oxidation zone has an inlet and an outlet . The inlet allows for gas reactants to enter the oxidation zone and be oxidized. The outlet allows for oxidation products to exit the oxidation zone .

The oxidation reactor includes an oxidation reactor housing A and a particle outlet that allows coolest particles E to exit the oxidation reactor and be received by the particle transport component . In this exemplary embodiment the particle transport component also has an auger configuration including a flight that rotates and transports particles from an initial or low position to a final or high position where they are introduced into the particle collection zone via a cold particle inlet not shown . A coupling to rotate the particle transport component is not shown in order to simplify the drawing for clarity and as the use of these components in operation of the primary internal components would be clearly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

In such a manner the particles are cycled between high reduction temperature in the high temperature zone of the oxidation reactor and low oxidation temperature in the oxidation zone of the oxidation reactor .

The reactive particles applicable to the systems and techniques described herein may generally be of any type known for thermochemical reactions that are further suitable for conveyance by the systems and techniques described herein. Although the reactive particles are not consumed significantly with each reaction cycle in the exemplary embodiments described herein one of skill in the art will note the systems and techniques described herein enable particle continuous addition and are therefore readily adaptable to embodiments where the reactive particles may be consumed e.g. volatilized and replenished. Reactive particles applicable to the systems and techniques described herein may be a solid media of homogenous or heterogeneous composition e.g. carrier media coated with reactive media and of various porosity.

In an embodiment the particles may be metal oxides facilitating a reduction oxidation cycle or redox cycle. These particles may metal oxides MOs selected from a group including but not limited to ceria CeO ferrite manganite cobalt oxide and other known particle composition capable of similar cyclic redox reactions. Reactive particles applicable to the systems and techniques described herein may also vary in size significantly with smaller sizes having higher surface volume ratios improving reaction rates but potentially being more susceptible to sintering and or melting. For one exemplary ceria particle embodiment particle size is between about 5 m microns and 50 m microns .

The reactor may be used in concentrated solar power systems that include but are not limited to solar thermochemical hydrogen and fuel production carbon dioxide and water splitting operations water capture such as from air and flue gas operations solar augmentation of fossil fuel power plants and industrial chemical operations. Industrial chemical operations may include but are not limited to cement manufacture ore thermolysis pyrolitic production of charcoal and activated carbon methanol production as well as biochar production for soil amendment and carbon sequestration.

In an embodiment the reactants may be COand the oxidation products may be CO and unreacted CO and the reduction product is O. In this embodiment the particles may be oxides such as CeO ferrites perovskites.

In an embodiment the process may be a water capture process and the reactant may be air and the oxidation products may be air and water and the reduction product is water. In this embodiment the particles may be a MOF or zeolite.

In an embodiment the process may be a COcapture process and the reactant may be air and the oxidation products may be air and CO and the reduction product is CO. In this embodiment the particles may be sorption materials such as zeolites or metal organic frameworks.

The reactor design enables a high degree of solid solid heat exchange or heat recovery in an auger used to move or circulate solid particles. Prior art particle beds are very poor thermal conductors with a coefficient of thermal conductivity typically one to two orders of magnitude less than that of the constituent bulk material and comparable with the best insulators. It is therefore advantageous in applications where heat exchange between two particle beds is necessary to minimize the relevant linear dimensions of the beds in order to maximize heat flow. Accordingly the swing reactor of the present disclosure maximizes heat exchange between particles in different temperature reactant zones by utilizing a vertical conveyor or recilcirculator where particles are moved up a stationary auger by the rotating action of the outside casing and then discharged down through the hollow auger shaft.

The disclosed swing reactor utilizes an auger with a very short pitch to provide for efficient exchange heat between the two countercurrent flows of particles. An auger with a short pitch minimizes the transfer distance through a highly insulating particle bed and maximizes heat transfer to and through the auger material itself which is typically a vastly better thermal conductor than a particle bed.

Unfortunately a very short auger pitch hampers the conveying function of the elevator since conveying relies on the pressure of the particle bed to keep the particles interlocked together and moving up the auger as roughly one unit. In other words an auger with a very short pitch compared to the auger diameter is optimal for the purposes of heat exchange but cannot convey well or at all. Conversely a long pitch auger comparable to the auger diameter is needed for efficient conveying but is virtually useless for the purposes of heat exchange.

The multi flight auger of the present disclosure satisfies both of these requirements without compromising either function. It uses multiple flights each having an individual pitch sufficiently large to be consistent with the need for efficient conveying. However because there are multiple flights with azimuthally offset starts the effective distance between flights i.e. effective pitch is given as the individual pitch divided by the number of flights. This gives the effective short pitch necessary for efficient heat exchange. The pitch of the auger is determined by the diameter weight and surface characteristics of the particles.

The operation of a multi flight auger solid solid heat exchanger is illustrated by again referring to . In this particular example the swing reactor is used to recover heat between the two flows of particles one flow of particles moving up the one or more flights of the auger and the second flow of particles traveling down the inner passage the hotter particles traveling down the inner passage transferring heat to the cooler particles traveling up the flights . The auger has a start A of the flight where the particles are received onto the flight by the pushing motion of the rotating casing . In another embodiment the auger may have one or more flights with corresponding flight starts. In an embodiment the auger may have four flights azimuthally offset by 90 . In another embodiment the auger may have two or more flights. In an embodiment the auger may have ten or more flights. In another embodiment the auger may have twenty or more flights. At the top of the auger particles A are heated and chemically reduced by solar heat. They then move downward and near the auger inner cylinder or shaft by gravity and transfer heat via conduction to the particles C being moved up the auger having previously been introduced into it via the cold particle inlet.

According to an embodiment the aspect ratio of the flights i.e. the ratio between the effective pitch and the depth of the flights flight outside radius minus inside radius is less than about 2. In practice this means that multi flight augers with a diameter that is large compared to the effective pitch would have a relatively large shaft and the flights would occupy the periphery.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the reactor may be used for a two step metal oxide redox cycle to produce fuel. Generally the reactor may be conceptualized as a particle exchange engine that implements a redox cycle. Reactive particles are exchanged between a thermal reduction portion of the reactor where the particles are reduced e.g. MO at first process conditions provided during the operation and a fuel production portion where the particles are oxidized e.g. MO at second conditions during operation to produce chemical work from solar heating.

The thermal reduction portion thermally reduces reactive particles through direct heating by solar energy to a reduction temperature Tand a reduction pressure P. At the operation reactive particles disposed in the thermal reduction chamber are exposed to a solar energy flux. In the exemplary embodiment the solar energy flux may be a beam down and directly irradiates the reactive particles disposed in the thermal reduction portion through an aperture e.g. quartz window in the ceiling of the reactor disposed a distance away from the reactive particles to avoid contact. However any means known in art may be employed to concentrate the solar energy flux to achieve a desired solar power such as parabolic troughs dish power towers etc. and embodiments of the present invention are not limited in this respect.

For an exemplary ceria particle redox cycle the reduction reaction of operation proceeds as 1 CeO 1 CeO O H 1 Where H is the reduction enthalpy of ceria and x is the extent of reduction. Other metal oxide particles also undergo similar a reaction.

The optimal reduction temperature Tmay vary considerably as a function of the thermal reduction properties of the reactive particle. The extent of reduction x achieved during the operation for a particular reactive particle composition is also a function of the reduction pressure Pmaintained in the thermal reduction portion. Generally the reduction temperature Tmay be expected to be in the range of 1000 C. to 1700 C. and more particularly in the range of 1300 C. to 1600 C. for the exemplary ceria particle with the extent of reduction x increasing for a given reduction temperature Tas partial pressure of oxygen in the thermal reduction portion decreases. During operation a vacuum is pulled on the thermal reduction portion to maintain a sub atmospheric reduction pressure Pand to extract oxygen O generated by thermal reduction of the reactive particles. For particular ceria particle embodiments the reduction pressure Phas a partial pressure of Obelow 100 Pa and preferably below 10 Pa where Tis in the range of 1300 C. to 1600 C. and preferably approximately 1500 C.

In an embodiment the fuel production portion re oxidizes the reduced particles at a fuel production temperature Tand a fuel production pressure P. During operation reactive particles disposed in the fuel production portion are exposed to a reactant fluid a gas or liquid . In an embodiment the reactant fluid may be steam HO for a water splitting embodiment or carbon dioxide CO in an alternative embodiment. The reactive particles undergo a reaction in the presence of the reactant fluid and are reoxidized while the reactant fluid is reduced into fluid reaction products. Depending on the composition of the particle the reaction may be limited to the surface or as in the case of the exemplary ceria particle which is an oxygen ion conductor the entire volume of the particle may participate in the reaction.

In an embodiment the fluid reaction products may be hydrogen H for the water splitting embodiment or CO in the alternative embodiment. The fluid reaction products are removed from the reactor as mixed with the reactant fluid. For the exemplary ceria particle the hydrolysis reaction of operation proceeds as 1 CeO HO 1 CeO H Q 2 where Q is the heat released by hydrolysis and x is again the extent of reduction. Other metal oxide particles also undergo a similar reaction. Collection of the reaction products e.g. H separately from the Ogenerated by thermal reduction is facilitated by physically separating the reactions 1 and 2 between the fuel production portion and the thermal reduction portion respectively.

In advantageous embodiments the fuel production temperature Tis below the reduction temperature T and in an embodiment at least 300 C. below the reduction temperature T and preferably between 300 C. and 600 C. below the reduction temperature T to render reduction or fuel production thermodynamically favorable. For the exemplary water splitting embodiment the temperature differential between Tand Tadvantageously avoids a need to perform any subsequent separation of Hfrom O. In one exemplary ceria embodiment operation is performed at a fuel production temperature Tof approximately 1000 C. In further embodiments the fuel production pressure Pis maintained at a pressure higher than the reduction pressure P. A higher fuel production pressure Padvantageously improves reactor efficiency because the rate of reaction 2 is directly proportional to pressure. In one exemplary ceria embodiment the fuel production pressure Pis at least 1 atm and preferably about 3 6 atm at a point where the reactant fluid e.g. steam is introduced. In certain embodiments countercurrent flow of the reactive particles and reactant fluid is provided to maximize the extent of the fuel production reaction.

With the reactor maintaining the thermal reduction portion at a thermal reduction pressure Pbelow the fuel production pressure Pin the fuel production portion during steady state operation of the reactor the reactor may independently provide optimal processing conditions for the separate operations of the redox cycle. For example Pmay be designed to achieve a greater extent of reduction x without hampering the fuel production half of the redox cycle.

It is to be understood that the above description is illustrative and not restrictive. For example while flow diagrams in the figures show a particular order of operations performed by certain embodiments of the invention it should be understood that such order is not required e.g. alternative embodiments may perform the operations in a different order combine certain operations overlap certain operations etc. . Furthermore many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments it will be recognized that the invention is not limited to the embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

