---

title: Revoking sessions using signaling
abstract: Embodiments are directed to revoking user sessions using signaling. In one scenario, an identity platform operating on a computer system receives an indication indicating that a user's login account has been compromised, where the user's login account has an associated login session and corresponding session artifact that is valid for a specified amount of time. The identity platform generates a signal indicating that the login session is no longer trusted and that the user is to be re-directed to the identity platform to re-authenticate and renew the session artifact and provides the generated signal to various relying parties including at least one relying party that is hosting the login session for the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09537851&OS=09537851&RS=09537851
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09537851
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140806
---
Computing systems have become ubiquitous ranging from small embedded devices to phones and tablets to PCs and backend servers. Each of these computing systems is designed to process software code. The software allows users to perform functions interacting with the hardware provided by the computing system. In some cases these computing systems allow users to establish login sessions with servers that provide private information for authenticated users. These login sessions may use artifacts that allow the sessions to remain alive for long periods of time after which the session will expire and the user will be asked to re authenticate. If an attacker determines a user s login credentials the attacker may have a long window in which those credentials are valid even if the breach in security is detected relatively quickly.

Embodiments described herein are directed to revoking user sessions using signaling. In one embodiment an identity platform operating on a computer system receives an indication that a user s login account has been compromised where the user s login account has an associated login session and corresponding session artifact that is valid for a specified amount of time. The identity platform generates a signal indicating that the login session is no longer trusted and that the user is to be redirected to the identity platform to re authenticate in order to renew the session artifact the identity platform provides the generated signal to various relying parties including at least one relying party that is hosting the login session for the user.

In another embodiment a computer system signals to one or more entities that a login session is to be revoked. The computer system receives an indication that credentials associated with a user account have been changed or updated where the user account has at least one associated login session. The computer system determines that a session token associated with the user s login session was issued before the time of credential change indicated on the received indication and based on the determination the computer system signals to an identity platform that the user s login session is to be revoked.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Additional features and advantages will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from the description or may be learned by the practice of the teachings herein. Features and advantages of embodiments described herein may be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. Features of the embodiments described herein will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims.

Embodiments described herein are directed to revoking user sessions using signaling. In one embodiment an identity platform operating on a computer system receives an indication indicating that a user s login account has been compromised where the user s login account has an associated login session and corresponding session artifact that is valid for a specified amount of time. The user s login account compromise may not only involve their credential compromise but also compromise of session artifacts at either the Identity platform level or at the relying party level. Compromise of session artifacts at the relying party level would only compromise that relying party but compromise at the Identity platform level would involve compromising many or even most of the relying parties. The identity platform generates a signal indicating that the login session is no longer trusted and that the user is to be redirected to the identity platform to re authenticate in order to renew the session artifact the identity platform provides the generated signal to various relying parties including at least one relying party that is hosting the login session for the user.

In another embodiment a computer system signals to one or more entities that a login session is to be revoked. The computer system receives an indication that credentials associated with a user account have been changed or updated where the user account has at least one associated login session. The computer system determines that a session token associated with the user s login session was issued before the time of credential change or update indicated on the received indication and based on the determination the computer system signals to an identity platform that the user s login session is to be revoked.

The following discussion now refers to a number of methods and method acts that may be performed. It should be noted that although the method acts may be discussed in a certain order or illustrated in a flow chart as occurring in a particular order no particular ordering is necessarily required unless specifically stated or required because an act is dependent on another act being completed prior to the act being performed.

Embodiments described herein may implement various types of computing systems. These computing systems are now increasingly taking a wide variety of forms. Computing systems may for example be handheld devices appliances laptop computers desktop computers mainframes distributed computing systems or even devices that have not conventionally been considered a computing system. In this description and in the claims the term computing system is defined broadly as including any device or system or combination thereof that includes at least one physical and tangible processor and a physical and tangible memory capable of having thereon computer executable instructions that may be executed by the processor. A computing system may be distributed over a network environment and may include multiple constituent computing systems.

As illustrated in a computing system e.g. A or B typically includes at least one processing unit e.g. A B and memory e.g. A B . The memory may be physical system memory which may be volatile non volatile or some combination of the two. The term memory may also be used herein to refer to non volatile mass storage such as physical storage media. If the computing system is distributed the processing memory and or storage capability may be distributed as well.

As used herein the term executable module or executable component can refer to software objects routines or methods that may be executed on the computing system. The different components modules engines and services described herein may be implemented as objects or processes that execute on the computing system e.g. as separate threads .

In the description that follows embodiments are described with reference to acts that are performed by one or more computing systems. If such acts are implemented in software one or more processors of the associated computing system that performs the act direct the operation of the computing system in response to having executed computer executable instructions. For example such computer executable instructions may be embodied on one or more computer readable media that form a computer program product. An example of such an operation involves the manipulation of data. The computer executable instructions and the manipulated data may be stored in the memory A of the computing system A. Computing system A may also contain communication channels that allow the computing system A to communicate with other message processors over a wired or wireless network.

Embodiments described herein may comprise or utilize a special purpose or general purpose computer system that includes computer hardware such as for example one or more processors and system memory as discussed in greater detail below. The system memory may be included within the overall memory A. The system memory may also be referred to as main memory and includes memory locations that are addressable by the at least one processing unit A over a memory bus in which case the address location is asserted on the memory bus itself. System memory has been traditionally volatile but the principles described herein also apply in circumstances in which the system memory is partially or even fully non volatile.

Embodiments within the scope of the present invention also include physical and other computer readable media for carrying or storing computer executable instructions and or data structures. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer system. Computer readable media that store computer executable instructions and or data structures are computer storage media. Computer readable media that carry computer executable instructions and or data structures are transmission media. Thus by way of example and not limitation embodiments of the invention can comprise at least two distinctly different kinds of computer readable media computer storage media and transmission media.

Computer storage media are physical hardware storage media that store computer executable instructions and or data structures. Physical hardware storage media include computer hardware such as RAM ROM EEPROM solid state drives SSDs flash memory phase change memory PCM optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other hardware storage device s which can be used to store program code in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures which can be accessed and executed by a general purpose or special purpose computer system to implement the disclosed functionality of the invention.

Transmission media can include a network and or data links which can be used to carry program code in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer system. A network is defined as one or more data links that enable the transport of electronic data between computer systems and or modules and or other electronic devices. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer system the computer system may view the connection as transmission media. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Further upon reaching various computer system components program code in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures can be transferred automatically from transmission media to computer storage media or vice versa . For example computer executable instructions or data structures received over a network or data link can be buffered in RAM within a network interface module e.g. a NIC and then eventually transferred to computer system RAM and or to less volatile computer storage media at a computer system. Thus it should be understood that computer storage media can be included in computer system components that also or even primarily utilize transmission media.

Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which when executed at one or more processors cause a general purpose computer system special purpose computer system or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Computer executable instructions may be for example binaries intermediate format instructions such as assembly language or even source code.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the principles described herein may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers desktop computers laptop computers message processors hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers mobile telephones PDAs tablets pagers routers switches and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed system environments where local and remote computer systems which are linked either by hardwired data links wireless data links or by a combination of hardwired and wireless data links through a network both perform tasks. As such in a distributed system environment a computer system may include a plurality of constituent computer systems. In a distributed system environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that the invention may be practiced in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing environments may be distributed although this is not required. When distributed cloud computing environments may be distributed internationally within an organization and or have components possessed across multiple organizations. In this description and the following claims cloud computing is defined as a model for enabling on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks servers storage applications and services . The definition of cloud computing is not limited to any of the other numerous advantages that can be obtained from such a model when properly deployed.

Still further system architectures described herein can include a plurality of independent components that each contribute to the functionality of the system as a whole. This modularity allows for increased flexibility when approaching issues of platform scalability and to this end provides a variety of advantages. System complexity and growth can be managed more easily through the use of smaller scale parts with limited functional scope. Platform fault tolerance is enhanced through the use of these loosely coupled modules. Individual components can be grown incrementally as business needs dictate. Modular development also translates to decreased time to market for new functionality. New functionality can be added or subtracted without impacting the core system.

Computer system A may further include a login session . The login session may include associated items such as a session artifact that allows a user e.g. to remain logged in to the session for an extended amount of time perhaps days weeks or longer . The artifact may be a cookie file or other type of data structure. The login session may also have a session token associated with it that remains valid for a specified period of time. Upon expiration the session token no longer allows the user to access applications or other data that is only available through the login session . While logged in i.e. while the session is still valid and active the user may access these remote or local applications and interact with them as an authenticated user. As such the user may access those portions of data to which they have access as an authenticated user.

It should be noted that in a single sign on SSO system there may be at a minimum two parties which would maintain these session artifacts. For example the parties may include an authentication service and a relying party. The authentication service may involve additional authentication services in case a of federated user s scenario in which cases there are a minimum of three parties who are to maintain these session artifacts.

In some cases the user may desire to change their login credentials or may be prompted to renew their login credentials. The user may thus provide their updated credentials e.g. username and password biometric credentials tokens passphrases or other credentials in input . In such cases when the user s credentials have changed the sessions previously established for the user become invalid. Similarly compromise of the session cookies e.g. at a shared kiosk or other computer system could allow malicious unauthorized access to a user s account. As such login credentials and session artifacts acquired through login credentials may be updated and changed. The session artifact however may indicate that the session will still be valid for a specified amount of time. In these cases the signal generating module may generate a signal that notifies relying parties which may be other users other computing systems other applications or other entities that the user s session has become stale and is no longer valid. The signal may also be sent to an identity platform of a cloud or other type of computing system e.g. computer system B . The identity platform may be configured to manage identities and login information for a plurality of users. In some cases the user may login to the identity platform in order to access applications . The identity platform thus includes multiple user login accounts and login sessions with corresponding session artifacts . The identity platform and other services may be hosted on the cloud and at least in some cases may be run on a virtual machine in a multi tenant system. Thus it should be noted that the identity platform and the relying parties may be multi tenant themselves and instances of these individual services may be running on a VM on a host which is also sharing VMs from other hostile non hostile tenants.

In some cases as described above the identity platform will be notified of invalid sessions by signal sent from computer system A. This signal may be sent in cases where the user changes their login credentials or when the administrator determines that an account has been compromised and is invalid. In other cases the identity platform may determine that a session is invalid. The user may have requested the identity platform to change their login credentials or the identity platform may have used a heuristics model to determine that suspicious activity has occurred on the user s login account and that its associated sessions are to be revoked. In such cases the signal generating module of the identity platform may generate a signal to notify other relying parties and computing systems such as computer system A. In this manner regardless of who determines the invalidity of a login session or how it is determined or where it is determined each computer system may notify the other and other related parties using signaling.

Indeed embodiments described herein include a series of signaling mechanisms between identity platform components and relying parties . These embodiments may apply to organizations that have an on premises identity management system and use a large number of applications and services that are federated to a shared identity security token service. The generated signals e.g. and allow relying parties to invalidate their session artifacts and send users back to the identity platform for remediation when such signals are received.

Previously entities have relied on short lifetimes for session artifacts which prevents an attacker from using compromised credentials for an extended period of time. This traditional approach however forces users to sign in too frequently which dramatically reduces usability. In embodiments described herein users are only round tripped to the identity platform to re sign in if a possible compromise has been detected and signaled to the applications or if the user has chosen to sign out and or sign in to another account . This makes it possible to eliminate unnecessary sign ins and reduce the time window between the detection of the account compromise and the lockdown of the account effectively reducing the ability for an attacker to access compromised resources.

Embodiments herein combine long session artifacts e.g. that are valid for two days or more and signaling methods to revoke session artifacts. This eliminates the search for a compromise between short session artifacts which impacts usability because it forces users to re sign often and long session artifact which impacts security because it leaves a large time window for attackers to access compromised resources . The signaling between a user or administrator and the identity platform may be dissociated from the signaling between the identity platform and the relying parties . Each leg can be push or pull and can use a combination of many different signals. These signals will be described further below.

Signals can be initiated by an end user or an administrator . The signals can be manually triggered e.g. when an administrator logs in to a console and enters the username of a compromised account and or built into existing workflows e.g. the user changes password which causes their associated sessions to be revoked across relying parties and devices . The signals can also be automatically generated upon detecting unusual account activity e.g. the same account has a sign in from the U.S. and China within a short timespan . These different signaling methods allow relying parties to keep long session artifacts e.g. two days or more and use signaling to immediately lock out users if an account compromise has been detected reported.

For the signal to make its way the relying parties various signaling mechanisms for end users or administrators may be used to signal the account compromise to the identity platform . Such signals can be initiated by an end user or an administrator . Additionally or alternatively the signals may be generated after unusual account activity is detected using heuristics . Still further the signals may be generated after a workflow or other event has triggered a credential change. The signals can be pushed in real time or pulled e.g. by a synchronization engine that picks up the changes . Various other signaling mechanisms may also be used to send the signal from the identity platform to the relying parties . These signals can also be communicated in a push or pull fashion.

One remediation for users whose accounts have been compromised is to change their password. This change password signal may thus be used to pivot on. In this manner existing properties of an identity management system may be leveraged to transmit or carry the signal to other entities as opposed to building new signaling mechanisms. For example in cases where a property that records when the user s password was last updated exists this property may be used for session revocation. If the session token for a session was issued before the time the user s password was last changed then the current session should be invalidated.

Various methods may be used to determine when the user s password was last changed 1 Use an existing timestamp property. Many identity management systems record the time at which the user s password was last changed. 2 In cases where organizations do not wish to expose a change password timestamp with external parties the organization could extend their identity management schema and synchronize another property. This could be for example a revocation timestamp attribute.

Mechanisms to send the signal from a user or administrator to the identity platform may include accessing existing identity management system synchronization mechanisms to synchronize password timestamps from on premises identity systems to cloud identity systems e.g. . In some cases these communications may already be regularly transferred as such these signals merely piggyback these synchronization messages. There may however be some wait time associated with the synchronization as the synchronization depends on its corresponding service level agreement SLA which may be for example three 3 hours between synchronizations . This allows end users to sign in to a portal or an application and select an option to invalidate my sessions on all other devices . It also allows administrators to sign in to a portal or an application enter a specific user ID or select in a list of users and select an option to invalidate these users sessions on all devices . When users change their password the identity management system may also provide an option to invalidate my sessions on all other devices . Still further a user may be able to selectively choose and revoke particular sessions as desired or as needed.

Still further embodiments may expose an application programming interface API to allow third party developers to integrate the signaling into third party tools and workflows such as third party security solutions or change password flows. This allows the third party solution to send revocation signals to the identity platform and other relying parties . Signaling mechanisms may also be provided to send the revocation signals from applications to other entities including the identity platform . Synchronization signals from the identity platform to relying parties may be used to carry the revocation signals e.g. . This would benefit relying parties that have an existing synchronization contract with the identity platform e.g. for user profile data .

The identity platform may also be used to invalidate central session artifacts e.g. cookies and may rely on session synchronization mechanisms to invalidate user session with relying parties. For instance Open ID Connect s session management polling mechanism may be implemented to invalidate a current session based on user s current state. The identity platform may send push signals to relying parties using any number of push mechanisms and relying parties may poll the identity platform at regular intervals via an API call to check the password timestamp. These concepts will be explained further below with regard to methods and of respectively.

In view of the systems and architectures described above methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow charts of . For purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks. However it should be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

Method includes an act of receiving at an identity platform an indication indicating that a user s login account has been compromised the user s login account having an associated login session and corresponding session artifact that is valid for a specified amount of time act . For example identity platform may receive indication indicating that a user s account has been compromised. This indication may be generated based on input from an administrator indicating that the user s account has been compromised or may be generated based on input from user indicating that their credentials have been changed resulting in their old login account no longer being valid. Still further the indication may be generated upon detecting through heuristics that a user s account has been compromised or upon detecting through other means that login credentials associated with the user have changed. The heuristics may be configured to look for suspicious login activity such as logging in from two different geographic locations within a short amount of time. Such suspicious account activity may lead the identity platform to determine that a user s account has been compromised and that their previous login sessions are to be revoked.

The user s login session may have one or more associated session artifacts . These artifacts may allow the login session to persist for a specified period of time even if the user is not actively using the session during that time. For instance the user may login and establish login session and access applications or other information. The identity platform may be configured to store user identifiers and perform the authentication of the user as well as establishing the login session . This login session then provides the user access to information and applications or other services which may be specific to that user. The login session may have a session token associated with it. Once the session token has expired the login session is no longer valid. In some cases if a user is logged in and accessing applications the expiration of a session token may cause the user to be prompted to login again. If proper authentication credentials are provided a new session token is issued and the user may continue acting within their login session.

Method further includes an act of generating a signal indicating that the login session is no longer trusted and that the user is to be re directed to the identity platform to re authenticate and renew the session artifact act . The signal generating module of computer system B may generate a signal that is sent to one or more relying parties and or to computer system A which is itself a relying party if the user has a login session on that computing system . As used herein the term relying party may include any user computing system application service or other entity that is relying on the validity of the user s credentials. Administrators mobile devices login sessions applications etc. may each rely on the fact that the user is legitimately using their login account and that no attacker has the user s credentials. Once the user s credentials have been compromised any login sessions or devices that trust the user s credentials will need to be notified that those credentials are no longer valid and that associated sessions should be revoked.

Method also includes an act of providing the generated signal to one or more relying parties including at least one relying party that is hosting the login session for the user act . Thus the signal may be used to notify the relying parties that the user s account has been compromised and that their sessions are to be revoked regardless of how long the artifact may indicate validity. The signal may be passed in a variety of different ways and may be passed to the relying parties upon a determination that each recipient is indeed a relying party. For example the identity platform may track those entities devices and or users that rely on the validity of the user s credentials and may designate them as relying parties . As such these specific relying parties will be notified of the compromise of user s credentials. Accordingly the set of relying parties may be different for each user or user login session.

As indicated above these relying parties may be notified of a compromise in a variety of manners. For instance the signal generated by module may be pushed to the relying parties via a message broadcast or direct transmission. Alternatively the signal may be pulled by relying parties as they periodically poll the identity platform for updates. In one embodiment the generated signal is provided to the relying parties using a synchronization contract between the identity platform and one or more applications that rely on the identity platform for identity management. Thus the signaling may use an existing synchronization contract between the identity platform and the applications that renews every variable number of hours. As such the signal may indicate to the applications that they are to renew on the next synchronization.

In one embodiment the generated signal may be relayed from an on premises identity management platform to a cloud identity management platform using push messaging or pull messaging. For instance if an on premises identity management platform is operating on computer system A it may be configured to interoperate with other identity platforms such as a cloud identity platform running on computer system B. In such cases the signal generating module of computer system A may generate signal which is pushed or pulled to the identity platform and or other relying parties . An on premises identity management platform may for example receive input from an administrator indicating that a user s login account has been compromised and generate the signal in response. In some cases the administrator may make changes to a synchronization contract that cause a timestamp of when the user last changed their credentials to be synchronized with the identity platform. This is one way of signaling to the identity platform that the user s credentials have changed and that prior or existing login sessions are to be revoked.

In other cases an application serviced by the identity platform or by a on premises identity management platform has removed one or more of its cookie files. In such cases the identity platform may detect that cookies were removed indicating a potential security breach and may invalidate the user s session across other applications or devices. Thus when the revocation signals and are received by relying entities and identity platforms the user s login sessions are invalidated across potentially many different services or devices. Applications may be closed upon receiving such a signal and may be unusable until new valid credentials have been provided. In this manner applications may rely on the identity platform for user session information and may terminate operation upon learning that a user login session is invalid.

In some embodiments the relying parties may already have a synchronization contract with an identity platform that provides authentication and user management. In such cases a generated signal e.g. may be provided to the relying parties using a synchronization signal that would have been sent as part of normal operation within the synchronization contract. The revocation signal effectively piggy backs on the synchronization signal notifying the relying parties on the next synchronization. In more urgent cases the revocation signal may be pushed out to the relying parties so they can act more quickly to revoke the user s sessions. The identity platform may invalidate the session artifact associated with the login session and may notify the relying parties using synchronization messages. In this manner bandwidth may be conserved and processing power may be reduced as existing synchronization infrastructure is used to propagate the revocation signal. Still further in some cases a user s login session may be revoked based on a determination of the user s state information in a session management application. For instance session management applications such as those implementing Open ID Connect session management may maintain a state for the user s login session. If that state information indicates that the account may be compromised or is otherwise invalid a revocation signal may be issued to revoke the user s login sessions across multiple applications and or devices.

Method includes an act of receiving an indication that one or more credentials associated with a user account have been changed the user account having at least one associated login session act . For example communications module A of computer system A may receive signal indicating that credentials associated with user have changed. The computer system A may determine that a session token associated with the user s login session was issued before the time of credential change indicated on the received indication act and based on the determination signal to an identity platform that the user s login session is to be revoked act . The signal generating module of computer system A may generate signal and send it to the identity platform . The signal is a revocation signal indicating that the users credentials are no longer valid and that login sessions associated with that user are to be revoked.

In some embodiments signaling to an identity platform that the user s login session is to be revoked includes synchronizing a password timestamp with the identity platform. The password timestamp may indicate the last time the user changed their password. If the password timestamp indicates a time that is later than when the session was initially established then the session will be invalidated. In some cases an indication that credentials associated with a user account have been changed may be the result of a user who has selected an option to invalidate associated login sessions. Accordingly user may be able to select an option that says something similar to invalidate my login sessions . Once such an option is selected the identity platform may be notified via indication or via a revocation signal . Similarly an administrator may indicate via such an option that sessions associated with the user are to be invalidated. Accordingly the administrator may select a user or group of users who are known or suspected to have compromised accounts and may select an option to invalidate their login sessions. If such an option is selected revocation signals may be provided by computer system A or by computer system B depending on configuration.

As shown in an administrator may perform various options including locking an account resetting a user s password via console or otherwise or reporting compromised accounts. The administrator may for example use a mobile admin application on premises identity platform or on premises identity management portal to perform these operations. The end user may also use an on premises identity management platform or cloud identity management portal to change their password or other login credentials. The on premises identity platform may synchronize with the cloud identity platform which may be configured to synchronize with one or more running applications . The cloud identity platform may also revoke sessions and terminate the applications . Accordingly the various components of may work together to allow administrators and end users to reset and change credentials revoke sessions and terminate applications.

Still further in some embodiments an application programming interface API may be provided that allows developers including potentially third party developers to integrate signaling into tools or workflows. Accordingly in one example a developer may cause a revocation signal to be issued automatically upon initiation of a change password or similar workflow. Once a user s account has been deemed compromised the user may be prompted to re authenticate. In some cases the user may be prompted to re authenticate using an authentication means that is different than that used to authenticate the session that was revoked. As such if the user authenticated via computer system A the first time the user may be prompted to re authenticate using a mobile device which may use SMS messaging email voice authentication biometric information such as fingerprint or other means of authentication. In this manner users can authenticate to an identity platform and stay logged in for a substantial amount of time. If the user s account becomes compromised during that time the revocation signals may be issued to substantially reduce the time that an attacker may be able to use the compromised account.

Accordingly methods systems and computer program products are provided which revoke user sessions using signaling. Moreover methods systems and computer program products are provided which signal to one or more entities that a login session is to be revoked. This allows the use of long session artifacts while still controlling the amount of time between a compromise and a safe account.

The concepts and features described herein may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from their spirit or descriptive characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the disclosure is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

