---

title: System and method for displaying surf information to a user
abstract: This disclosure relates to a system configured to display current surf information to a user on a device worn by the user, track physical surfing activity of the user across multiple surf sessions, and/or alert the user when current surf conditions match previously highly rated surf conditions and/or any user selected criteria based on surf/weather forecast data. The system may comprise a first device (a watch) worn by the user, a second device (the user's smartphone) associated with the user but physically separate and unconnected from the first device, external resources, and/or other components.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09020538&OS=09020538&RS=09020538
owner: Nixon, Inc.
number: 09020538
owner_city: Encinitas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140825
---
This disclosure relates to a system and method for displaying surf information to a user via a user interface carried by a device worn by the user.

Waterproof watches that display tide chart information to users are known. Typically the tide chart information displayed to users on such watches is predictive tide information determined days weeks months or even years in advance. The watches simply regurgitate this predetermined information and do not provide any information freshly gathered from output signals of oceanic and or other environmental sensors.

One aspect of the disclosure relates to a method for displaying surf information to a user via a user interface carried by a first device worn by the user. The method comprises obtaining information related to a desired physical geographic surf location of the user with a second device the second device being physically separate and unconnected from the first device and being associated with the user obtaining with the second device surf information for the desired surf location of the user wherein the surf information for the desired surf location may be regularly obtained from one or more external sources of information accessed via a wireless communication network such that the obtained surf information reflects substantially current surf information for the desired surf location of the user wirelessly communicating the obtained surf information to the first device responsive to the first device being in proximity to the second device to facilitate communication between the first device and the second device and displaying the communicated surf information to the user via the user interface carried by the first device.

Another aspect of the disclosure relates to a system configured to display surf information to a user. The system comprises a device worn by the user that carries a user interface configured to display surf information to the user. The surf information may be received from one or more physical computer processors configured by computer readable instructions to obtain information related to a desired physical geographic surf location of the user wearing the device obtain surf information for the desired surf location of the user wherein the surf information for the desired surf location may be regularly obtained from one or more external sources of information accessed via a wireless communication network such that the obtained surf information reflects substantially current surf information for the desired surf location of the user communicate the obtained surf information to the device worn by the user and cause the device worn by the user to display the communicated surf information to the user via the user interface.

A third aspect of the disclosure relates to a system configured to provide surf information to a user via an electronic application configured to receive surf information from one or more remote server computers and communicate the surf information to a device worn by the user for display to the user. The system comprises one or more physical computer processors configured by computer readable instructions to obtain information related to a desired physical geographic surf location of the user regularly obtain surf information for the desired surf location of the user from the one or more remote server computers accessed via a wireless communication network such that the obtained surf information reflects substantially current surf information for the desired surf location of the user communicate the obtained surf information to the device worn by the user and cause a user interface carried by the device worn by the user to display the communicated surf information to the user.

A fourth aspect of the disclosure relates to a system configured to track physical surfing activity of a user. The system comprises a first device worn by the user configured to generate and store information related to physical surfing activity of a user during a current surf session. The first device comprises one or more sensors electronic storage and or other components. The one or more sensors may be configured to generate output signals conveying information related to the physical surfing activity of the user during the current surf session. The electronic storage may be configured to electronically store the information related to the physical surfing activity of the user during the current surf session. The first device may be configured to communicate with a second device associated with the user that is physically separate and unconnected from the first device. The second device may comprise one or more physical computer processors configured to responsive to the user completing the current surf session obtain the information related to the physical surfing activity of the user during the current surf session determine one or more current surf parameters for the current surf session the current surf parameters indicating an amount of physical surfing activity of the user during the current surf session and electronically store the current surf parameters with corresponding previous surf parameters determined for previous surf sessions to facilitate tracking the user s individual surfing activity for multiple surf sessions.

These and other features and characteristics of the present technology as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood however that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and in the claims the singular form of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Current surf information may include recent information received stored transmitted etc. by external sources of information e.g. external resources such as sensors server computers and or other external resources as described herein and then obtained by system information determined by system e.g. a surf session duration a surf session rating a surf session location a surf session wave count etc. and or other information. Current surf information may include real time and or near real time information related to physical observable conditions forecasts ratings reports and or other information. For example current surf information may include information received by a server from an oceanic sensor that reflects current oceanic conditions e.g. real world observable conditions conveyed by the sensor output signals e.g. as opposed to months old pre determined tide chart data . Current surf information may include information such as the date the time the name of a surf break for which information is obtained a current wave height a current surf condition rating a current tide indication a current water temperature an alert indicator e.g. a high surf advisory a surf conditions ratings based alert etc. a tide graph with an indication of the current tide level a current air temperature a surf forecast current weather information a surf session duration a surf session rating a surf session wave count surf session physical activity tracking information e.g. wave count session duration paddle count etc. sunrise sunset information and or other surf information. In some implementations current surf information may include forecasted and or past surf conditions. For example system may be configured to display future forecasted data and or past data in some instances.

As shown in system may be configured such that a user s smartphone e.g. second device runs an electronic application e.g. an app the functionality of which is described herein related to a processor of second device that obtains at least some of the current surf information from external resources and then communicates it to a watch worn by a user e.g. first device for display to the user. In some implementations as shown in system may be configured such that the electronic application run by the user s smartphone second device receives at least some of the current surf information from a server associated with system . Server may collect gather determine and or otherwise obtain the current surf information from external resources . For example server may obtain current surf information via an external server that is part of external resources . The external server may provide an application programming interface API for server to facilitate communication of the current surf information between the servers. In some implementations communication to first device may be direct from external resources such as the API and or other external resources by wireless methods such as Bluetooth Low Energy and or other wireless protocols and or wired e.g. hard wired connections and or may be transmitted to first device via other external resources after being processed and or modified by other external resources such as a smartphone a smartphone app and or other resources.

Returning to presenting current surf information to a user on a watch e.g. first device worn by a user may include effectuating presentation of a graphical user interface. The graphical user interface may include one or more views that include one or more fields configured to display the different types of surf information to the user. . E illustrate various views of the graphical user interface presented to the user on a watch worn by the user. . E are non limiting examples of possible views of the graphical user interface. Various views of the graphical interface may include and or exclude any and or all of the fields shown in . E and or additional fields not shown in the figures. The views may include any number and or any types of fields and they may be presented in any way that allows system to function as described herein.

Returning to as described above first device may be configured to be worn by the user and display surf information to a user via a user interface carried by first device . First device may be configured to be light weight and small enough to be comfortably worn by the user. In some implementations first device may be configured to be comfortably worn by the user while the user goes surfing. In some implementations first device may be a watch. In some implementations the watch may be waterproof and or water resistant. First device may comprise one or more of user interface electronic storage a processor communications components sensors and or other components.

User interface may be configured to provide an interface between first device and a user through which the user may provide information to and receive information from system . This enables data cues results and or instructions and any other communicable items collectively referred to as information to be communicated between the user and system . By way of a non limiting example user interface may be configured to display the current surf information e.g. including forecasted and or past surf conditions if appropriate to the user. As described above displaying current surf information may include effectuating presentation of the graphical user interface which may include one or more views that include one or more fields configured to display the different types of surf information to the user e.g. . E . For example the one or more fields may display one or more of the date the time the surf break name the wave height the surf condition rating the current tide indication the water temperature the alert indicator the tide graph the air temperature the surf forecast the weather information a Bluetooth connectivity indicator surf session physical activity tracking information e.g. wave count session duration paddle count etc. sunrise sunset information and or other surf information. In some implementations user interface may be configured to display substantially all of the surf information and or a subset of related surf information e.g. as illustrated in . E to the user in a single view which may be more convenient for the user than having to navigate through multiple views to view the information . Examples of interface devices suitable for inclusion in user interface may include a display a touch screen display touch sensitive and or physical buttons and or other interface devices.

Processor may be configured to provide information processing capabilities in first device . As such processor may comprise one or more of a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information. Processor may be configured to provide at least some of the functionality attributed herein to first device . For example processor may facilitate electronic storage of information conveyed by output signals from sensors included in first device described below .

Communication components may be configured to facilitate communication between first device and second device and or other devices. Communication components may facilitate wireless and or wired communication. For example communication components may facilitate wireless communication via a Wi Fi network via Bluetooth technology the internet a cellular network and or other wireless technology. In some implementations communication components may facilitate communication via a wired USB connection for example.

Sensors may be configured to generate output signals conveying information related to the physical surfing activity of the user during a current surf session a physical geographic location of a user environmental conditions and or other information. In some implementations sensors may include one or more of a GPS sensor a gyroscope an accelerometer an altimeter a temperature sensor a barometer an anemometer a magnetometer a compass a heart rate monitor an ambient light sensor and or other sensors. The physical surfing activity of the user during the current surf session may refer to activities such as riding waves paddling kicking resting aerial maneuvers crashes diving and or being forced down at depth below water generating g forces and or other activities.

Electronic storage may comprise electronic storage media that electronically stores information. Electronic storage may store software algorithms information obtained received and or determined by processor described below processor external resources and or other devices information obtained received and or determined via sensors sensors described below and or other sensors and or other information that enables system to function as described herein. For example electronic storage may be configured to electronically store the information related to the physical surfing activity of the user during the current surf session e.g. information conveyed by the output signals of sensors .

As describe above second device may be associated with the user but physically separate and unconnected from first device . In some implementations second device may be the user s smartphone for example. Second device may comprise one or more of a user interface electronic storage a sensor communications components a processor and or other components.

User interface may be configured to provide an interface between second device and a user through which the user may provide information to and receive information from system . This enables data cues results and or instructions and any other communicable items collectively referred to as information to be communicated between the user and system . By way of a non limiting example user interface may be configured to receive information indicating a desired surf location a surf session rating after surfing that indicates enjoyment level of the user for the current surf session and or other information. Receiving entry and or selection of a desired surf location a surf session rating and or other information may include a user typing information via a key pad a keyboard and or a touch screen selecting e.g. via a touchscreen information from a list of choices provided to the user making a selection via slider icon displayed by user interface and or other entry and or selection. Examples of interface devices suitable for inclusion in user interface include a touch screen a keypad touch sensitive and or physical buttons switches a keyboard knobs levers speakers a microphone an indicator light a printer and or other interface devices.

It is to be understood that other communication techniques either hard wired or wireless are also contemplated by the present disclosure as user interface . For example the present disclosure contemplates that user interface may be integrated with a removable storage interface provided by electronic storage . In this example information may be loaded into system from removable storage e.g. a smart card a flash drive a removable disk that enables the user to customize the implementation of system . Other exemplary input devices and techniques adapted for use with system as user interface include but are not limited to an RS 232 port RF link an IR link modem telephone cable or other . In short any technique for communicating information with system is contemplated by the present disclosure as user interface .

Returning to electronic storage may comprise electronic storage media that electronically stores information. The electronic storage media of electronic storage may comprise one or both of system storage that is provided integrally i.e. substantially non removable with second device and or removable storage that is removably connectable to second device via for example a port e.g. a USB port a firewire port etc. or a drive e.g. a disk drive etc. . Electronic storage may comprise one or more of optically readable storage media e.g. optical disks etc. magnetically readable storage media e.g. magnetic tape magnetic hard drive floppy drive etc. electrical charge based storage media e.g. EPROM RAM etc. solid state storage media e.g. flash drive etc. and or other electronically readable storage media. Electronic storage may store software algorithms information e.g. surf information obtained received and or determined by processor processor and or external resources and or other information that enables system to function as described herein.

Sensors are configured to generate output signals conveying information related to a physical geographic location of second device proximity of first device to second device presence of saved surf sessions that are ready to be synced general watch setup timer set alarm set time date set battery level general status and or other information. By way of a non limiting example sensors may include one or more of a GPS location sensor a signal strength sensor for detecting proximity of first device and or other sensors. The output signals from sensors may be used by processor for obtaining and or determining a desired surf location of the user determining proximity of first device to facilitate tracking a user s surfing activity during the current surf session and or for other purposes.

Communication components may be configured to facilitate communication between first device and second device between second device and external resources and or between other devices. Communication components may facilitate wireless and or wired communication. For example communication components may facilitate wireless communication via a Wi Fi network and or via Bluetooth technology with first device and via the internet a cellular network and or other wireless technology with external resources . In some implementations communication components may facilitate communication via a wired USB connection with first device for example.

Processor may be configured to provide information processing capabilities in second device individually and or system as a whole. As such processor may comprise one or more of a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information. Although processor is shown in as a single entity within second device this is for illustrative purposes only. In some implementations processor may comprise a plurality of processing units. These processing units may be physically located within the same device e.g. within a server that is part of external resources within a smartphone such as second device within a watch such as first device within a desktop computer within a laptop computer within a tablet computer and or other computing devices or processor may represent processing functionality of a plurality of devices operating in coordination e.g. a server that is part of external resources a smartphone such as second device a watch such as first device .

Processor may be configured to execute computer program components. The computer program components may be configured to enable an expert and or user to interface with second device and or system and or provide other functionality attributed herein to first device second device external resources and or other components of system . The computer program components may include a location component a surf information component a communication component a display component an activity tracking component and or other components. Processor may be configured to execute components and or by software hardware firmware some combination of software hardware and or firmware and or other mechanisms for configuring processing capabilities on processor .

It should be appreciated that although components and are illustrated in as being co located within a single processing unit in implementations in which processor comprises multiple processing units one or more of components and or may be located remotely from the other components e.g. such as within processor of first device within a server that is part of external resources etc. . The description of the functionality provided by the different components and or described herein is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting as any of components and or may provide more or less functionality than is described. For example one or more of components and or may be eliminated and some or all of its functionality may be provided by other components and or . As another example processor may be configured to execute one or more additional components that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed below to one of components and or . In some implementations one or more of components and or may be executed by a processor incorporated in first device external resources and or other components of system .

Location component may be configured to obtain information related to a desired physical geographic surf location of the user. In some implementations the information related to the desired surf location may be entered and or selected by the user via user interface of first device user interface of second device and or other devices. In some implementations the desired surf location may be obtained and or determined based on output signals from one or more sensors included in first device one or more sensors included in second device and or other electronic signals that indicate a user s physical geographic location. In some implementations the desired surf location may be a known surf location that is geographically close to the user s physical geographic location. In some implementations location component may be configured to cause user interface user interface and or other user interfaces to present a list of nearby surf locations to the user to facilitate entry and or selection of a desired surf location from the list by the user. In some implementations location component may be configured to designate a desired surf location entered and or selected by a user as a user s Home Break. A user s Home Break may be displayed on a main screen of the watch for example and be first in all lists of spots in the app and on the watch. A user s home break may also be stored in an electronic user profile and or be visible to a user s accepted social network within the app environment.

Surf information component may be configured to obtain surf information for the desired surf location of the user. The surf information for the desired surf location of the user may be regularly obtained from one or more external sources of information e.g. external resources and or other sources. The external sources of information may include one or more remotely located server computers e.g. as described herein oceanic atmospheric and or other sensors oceanic atmospheric and or other information databases and or other external sources of information. In some implementations a server computer associated with system may obtain information from the oceanic atmospheric and or other sensors other external servers not associated with system and or other sources and then provide the information to surf information component . The surf information may include as described above the date the time the surf break name the wave height the surf condition rating the current tide indication the water temperature the alert indicator the tide graph the air temperature the surf forecast the weather information a Bluetooth connectivity indicator surf session physical activity tracking information e.g. wave count session duration paddle count etc. sunrise sunset information wind speed wind direction water temperature ocean swell direction ocean swell height crowd sourced social data related to any of the above conditions from the past for all of above mentioned and or other information.

The external sources of information may be regularly accessed by surf information component via a wireless communication network e.g. the internet a cellular communication network etc. such that the obtained surf information reflects substantially current surf information for the desired surf location of the user. As described above substantially current information may include the most recent information received stored transmitted etc. by the external sources of information. For example substantially current information may include information received by a server from an oceanic sensor that reflects current oceanic conditions e.g. real world observable conditions conveyed by the sensor output signals. Regularly accessing the external sources of surf information may include accessing the external sources of information at regular time intervals accessing according to a predetermined schedule accessing external sources of information in a particular order and or other accessing methods that produce substantially current surf information e.g. as opposed to months old pre determined tide chart data and or information pushed to system from the source as data becomes available. For example surf information component may cycle through a list of surf locations in a specified order once every 15 minutes this is not intended to be limiting obtaining updated surf information for an individual surf location once per cycle. Surf information and or other current information may be manually triggered by the user such that system checks to see whether a new API is available and if so pull it and update information for the user immediately. In some implementations with little and or no action from the user individual spots e.g. each and every spot in the API may be checked one by one substantially continuously for an update. By way of non limiting example a full cycle of 2989 locations spots in the API cycles through are checked in approximately 500 seconds. This is not intended to be limiting and is subject to change as new spots are added and or as server performance increases for example.

Communication component may be configured to wirelessly communicate the obtained surf information to first device . Communication component may be configured to wirelessly communicate the obtained surf information to first device responsive to first device being in proximity to second device to facilitate communication between first device and second device . In some implementations being in proximity may include being within a distance of about 20 meters or less from each other. In some implementations being in proximity may include being within a distance of about 10 meters or less from each other. In some implementations being in proximity may include being within a distance of about 5 meters or less from each other.

Display component may be configured to cause user interface of first device to display the communicated surf information to the user. Causing user interface to display the communicated surf information may include effectuating the presentation of the graphical user interface to the user via user interface . As described herein e.g. . E the graphical user interface may include one or more views that include one or more fields configured to display the different types of surf information to the user described above .

Activity tracking component may be configured to track physical surfing activity of the user. Responsive to the user completing a current surf session activity tracking component may obtain information related to the physical surfing activity of the user during the current surf session e.g. from the output signals of sensor in first device from information stored in electronic storage and or from other sources . Activity tracking component may be configured to obtain the information related to the physical surfing activity of the user during the current surf session responsive to the user completing the current surf session and first device being in proximity to second device to facilitate communication between first device and second device . Activity tracking component may determine one or more current surf parameters for the current surf session based on the obtained information and or other information. The current surf parameters may indicate an amount of physical surfing activity of the user during the current surf session and or other information. Current surf parameters may include for example a paddle count a session duration a wave count individual wave ratings an overall session rating speed of a surfer a top speed reached a distance surfed a distance paddled an aerial maneuver height of a surfer g forces sustained time surfing a wave time paddling and or other parameters. Activity tracking component may facilitate electronic storage e.g. in electronic storage on a server that is part of external resources etc. of the current surf parameters with corresponding previous surf parameters determined for previous surf sessions to facilitate tracking the user s individual surfing activity for multiple surf sessions.

Gathering the metrics mentioned herein as well as a recording of current surf conditions e.g. sensors generating output signals gathering data from external resources may be initiated by user entering and or selecting a SESSIONS for example mode of system via the graphical user interface on the user s watch e.g. first device and or the user s phone e.g. second device and starting a session. In some implementations this may be initiated from the watch for example and may be done independent of the phone. A user may store up to 10 for example different sessions on the watch. Then when within range of the phone the user may be prompted by system that they have saved sessions and be asked if they want to sync them. The session data may be transferred from the watch to the phone and saved. The user may then see a summary of the metrics and or the conditions for the surf session verify the location of the surf session add any notes or images and then save the information to a Surf Journal associated with the user and or save the information in other electronic locations. The user may make such a journal entry private and or public so that others may or may not see it. A user may create a custom alert based on any saved session in the journal they may post an image generated by the app that summarizes their session with a background image to their social network such as Instagram etc. and or perform other actions based on the information in the journal and or other information.

Responsive to receiving a positive enjoyment level rating from the user e.g. via user interface described above for the current surf session activity tracking component may be configured to cause user interface of first device to display an alert to the user when subsequently obtained surf information for the surf location of the current surf session from the one or more external sources of information is substantially similar to the surf information for the current surf session. In other words activity tracking component is configured to monitor the surf conditions at the surf spot relative to how the conditions were for the highly rated surf session and then notify the user when similar good surfing conditions are present at the surf spot. In addition system may be configured such that a user may manually create alerts based on any surf conditions.

External resources may include sources of information e.g. oceanic and or atmospheric information databases one or more servers a network e.g. the internet a cellular network electronic storage data entry devices sensors computing devices associated with individual users and or other resources. In some implementations some or all of the functionality attributed herein to external resources may be provided by resources included in system . External resources may be configured to communicate with second device first device and or other components of system via wired and or wireless connections via a network e.g. a cellular network a local area network and or the internet via Wi Fi technology and or via other resources. For example a server that is part of external resources may communicate surf information to second device via the internet and or a cellular communication network. In some implementations electronic resources may include at least one server computer associated with system configured to obtain information from oceanic atmospheric and or other sensors other external servers not associated with system and or other sources and provide the information to surf information component of processor e.g. as shown in .

In some implementations method may be implemented in one or more processing devices e.g. a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information . The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices executing some or all of the operations of method in response to instructions stored electronically on an electronic storage medium. The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices configured through hardware firmware and or software to be specifically designed for execution of one or more of the operations of method .

At an operation a desired surf location of the user may be obtained. The desired surf location may be a physical geographic surf location of the user. The desired surf location may be obtained with a second device e.g. a smartphone . The second device may be physically separate and unconnected from the first device and associated with the user. For example the desired surf location may be entered and or selected by the user via a user interface of the first device and or the second device the desired surf location may be obtained and or determined based on output signals from one or more sensors included in the first device and or the second device that indicate a user s location and or the desired surf location may be obtained and or determined in other ways and or based on other information. Operation may be performed by a computer processor component that is the same as or similar to location component shown in and described herein .

At an operation surf information for the desired surf location may be obtained. The surf information for the desired surf location may be regularly obtained by the second device from one or more external sources of information accessed via a wireless communication network such that the obtained surf information reflects substantially current surf information for the desired surf location of the user. In some implementations the surf information for the desired surf location of the user may be regularly obtained from one or more remote server computers accessed via a wireless communication network. The surf information may include one or more of a date a time a surf break name a wave height a surf condition rating a current tide indication a water temperature an alert indicator a tide graph an air temperature a surf forecast weather information and or other information. Operation may be performed by a computer processor component that is the same as or similar to surf information component shown in and described herein .

At an operation the obtained surf information may be communicated to the first device worn by the user. The obtained surf information may be communicated to the first device responsive to the first device being in proximity to the second device to facilitate communication between the first device and the second device. Operation may be performed by a computer processor component that is the same as or similar to communication component shown in and described herein .

At an operation the communicated surf information may be displayed to the user via a user interface of the first device worn by the user. In some implementations the user interface carried by the first device may comprise one or more views that include one or more fields for displaying one or more of the date the time the surf break name the wave height the surf condition rating the current tide indication the water temperature the alert indicator the tide graph the air temperature the surf forecast the weather information and or other information. Operation may be performed by a computer processor component that is the same as or similar to display component shown in and described herein .

In some implementations method may be implemented in one or more processing devices e.g. a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information . The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices executing some or all of the operations of method in response to instructions stored electronically on an electronic storage medium. The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices configured through hardware firmware and or software to be specifically designed for execution of one or more of the operations of method .

At an operation information related to physical surfing activity of a user may be generated and stored. The information related to physical surfing activity may be generated by one or more sensors included in the first device worn by the user. The one or more sensors may be configured to generate output signals conveying information related to the physical surfing activity of a user during a current surf session for example. In some implementations the one or more sensors may include one or more of a GPS sensor a gyroscope an accelerometer an altimeter a temperature sensor and or other sensors. The information related to the physical surfing activity of the user may be stored by electronic storage included in the first device. In some implementations the first device may be a watch worn by the user. Operation may be performed by a first device that is the same as or similar to first device shown in and described herein .

At an operation the information related to the physical surfing activity of the user may be obtained by a second device. The second device may be associated with the user and be physically separate and unconnected from the first device. The second device may be a smartphone for example. The second device may be configured to obtain the information related to the physical surfing activity of the user during the current surf session from the first device responsive to the user completing the current surf session. In some implementations the second device may be configured to obtain the information related to the physical surfing activity of the user during the current surf session responsive to the user completing the current surf session and the first device being in proximity to the second device to facilitate communication between the first device and the second device. Operation may be performed by a second device that is the same as or similar to second device shown in and described herein .

At an operation one or more surf parameters may be determined based on the information related to the physical surfing activity. The determined surf parameters may be current surf parameters for the current surf session. The current surf parameters may indicate an amount of physical surfing activity of the user during the current surf session. For example the current surf parameters may include one or more of a paddle count session duration a wave count individual wave ratings an overall session rating and or other surf parameters. Operation may be performed by a second device that is the same as or similar to second device shown in and described herein .

At an operation the determined surf parameters may be electronically stored. The current surf parameters may be electronically stored with corresponding previous surf parameters determined for previous surf sessions to facilitate tracking the user s individual surfing activity for multiple surf sessions. In some implementations the current surf parameters may be electronically stored with the corresponding previous surf parameters on a remotely located server. Operation may be performed by a second device that is the same as or similar to second device shown in and described herein .

At an operation a surf alert may be provided to the user. Providing a surf alert may include receiving a surf session rating from the user that indicates an enjoyment level of the user for the current surf session obtaining surf information for a physical geographic surf location of the current surf session wherein the surf information for the surf location is regularly obtained from one or more external sources of information accessed via a wireless communication network such that the obtained surf information reflects surf information for the surf location during the current surf session and responsive to receiving a positive enjoyment level rating from the user causing a user interface of the first device to display an alert to the user when subsequently obtained surf information for the surf location from the one or more external sources of information is substantially similar to the surf information for the current surf session. The surf information may include one or more of a time of day a wave height a surf condition rating a current tide indication a water temperature an air temperature swell information weather information and or other information. Operation may be performed by a second device that is the same as or similar to second device shown in and described herein .

Although the present technology has been described in detail for the purpose of illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred implementations it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the technology is not limited to the disclosed implementations but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example it is to be understood that the present technology contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any implementation can be combined with one or more features of any other implementation.

