---

title: Systems, methods, and computer-readable media for determining excessive use of a cellular network
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer-readable media for analysis of call detail records to determine unauthorized use of a cellular network are provided. The transferred data amounts from call detail records may be compared to categorized data usage associated with a portable user device to determine uncategorized data usage by the portable user device. The uncategorized data usage and the categorized data usage may be analyzed to determine unauthorized use of the cellular network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432521&OS=09432521&RS=09432521
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09432521
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141222
---
Portable electronic devices such as tablets smartphones and e readers may provide various capabilities to users. Some portable electronic devices may communicate over a network to provide capabilities such as Internet browsing online shopping and so on. The devices may be used for a variety of purposes. In some instances the devices may be used for unauthorized purposes that may result in the misuse of network resources. The misuse of network resources may be challenging to detect and may be costly to the provider of services to the device.

This disclosure relates to among other things analysis of call detail records to determine unauthorized use of a cellular network. A portable user device e.g. a mobile device having a cellular radio may access various services and content over a cellular network. For example the portable user device may execute applications such as a web browser an online store application social network applications and advertising applications that enable access to content and service from a content and service provider. In some embodiments call detail records may be obtained from a cellular network provider. The call detail record CDR may include a cellular radio identifier a timeframe e.g. a start time and an end time a data amount transferred over the cellular network and the country where the transfer occurred. Additionally data usage for the content and services accessed by the portable user device may be obtained. The data usage may be categorized into different categories. For example in some embodiments the data usage associated with a portable user device may be categorized into browsing data usage shopping data usage social networking data usage advertising data usage and other suitable categories. Additionally a purchase history associated with the user device may be obtained.

In some embodiments obtained call detail records for a time period may be associated with data usage for a portable user device via a mapping between a radio identifier from the call detail records and an account identifier associated with the portable user device. The total categorized data usage for a time period may be determined by summing the data usage in each category. The data amount from the call detail records may be compared to the total categorized data usage. The difference between the call detail records data transfers and the total categorized usage may determine uncategorized data usage. Such uncategorized data usage may include for example using the portable user device to browse webpages on the Internet transfer unauthorized files access unauthorized services and so on.

In some embodiments a cost analysis may be performed on the obtained call detail records. Based on the cost analysis content transfers to a user device may be modified to minimize the cost of data transfers. In some embodiments the cost analysis may be performed based on billing structures specific to each country to reduce the cost of transferring content. For example in some embodiments if a cellular network provider has a billing structure such that the rate to transfer content outside of the U.S. is significantly higher than the rate to transfer content inside the U.S. a service may wait until a portable user device is located in the U.S. and is able to transfer data in the U.S. before initiating the transfer of content.

In some embodiments the uncategorized data usage may be analyzed to determine unauthorized use of the cellular network. The uncategorized data usage may be analyzed using for example statistical data analysis techniques to determine whether the uncategorized data usage is unauthorized. In some embodiments for example uncategorized data usage above a threshold may result in an alarm to prompt further investigation of the data usage or in some embodiments to flag a portable user device as performing unauthorized activity. In some embodiments the uncategorized data usage may be compared to historical uncategorized data usage for a device or a group of devices to determine whether such data usage is associated with unauthorized activity. In some embodiments the uncategorized data usage may be analyzed to determine irregularities such as software bugs e.g. application bugs firmware bugs etc. billing mistakes and other irregularities.

In some embodiments the categorized data usage may be analyzed to determine unauthorized use of the cellular network. The categorized data usage may also be analyzed using statistical data analysis techniques to determine whether the categorized data usage is unauthorized. In some embodiments categorized data usage above a category specific threshold may be indicative of unauthorized activity and may result in an alarm or flagging of a portable user device. In some embodiments the data usage in a specific category may be compared to historical data usage e.g. purchase history for a category for a portable user device or a group of portable user devices. In some embodiments the data usage for a specific category may be cross referenced against activity e.g. purchase history associated with a service. For example if a service such as a store experiences a large increase in purchases after the release of a popular application or other product the category specific data usage for a shopping category may increase for some portable user devices. In some embodiments a purchase history may be associated with an account identifier associated with a user device and one of multiple profiles associated with the account identifier.

With the foregoing in mind depicts an example graph showing categorized and uncategorized data usage determined in accordance with techniques described herein. In some embodiments the graph may be provided in a report or other output after analysis of call detail records and data usage as described further below. As shown in the graph shows data usage in megabytes MB on the y axis and time in discrete months on the x axis. Uncategorized data usage and categorized data usage may be plotted vs. time based on analysis of call data records. Although the graph depicts data points plotted at each month it should be appreciated that some embodiments may determine data points at more or less frequent time intervals e.g. every day every week every two weeks every other month etc. .

As indicated in the legend a line corresponds to uncategorized data usage and each of lines and correspond to data usage in a specific category. For example as shown in line corresponds to data usage determined to be in a shopping category line corresponds to data usage determined to be in a periodicals category e.g. access newspapers or magazines and line corresponds to data usage in a browsing category e.g. web browsing . The graph illustrates various levels of data usage over the illustrated time period on the x axis. The uncategorized data usage line corresponds to a generally higher data usage over the illustrated time period than for example the shopping data usage line . In another example the browsing data usage line corresponds to a generally lower data usage over the illustrated time period than for example the shopping data usage line . also illustrates a threshold line associated with the uncategorized data usage line . As described further below uncategorized data usage above the threshold line may be categorized for example as excessive use. Accordingly relatively high amounts of data usage during a time period indicative of excessive use of a cellular network may be identified from the data depicted in graph .

As indicated in the legend of lines and correspond to different cellular network providers Carrier Carrier Carrier and Carrier respectively. For example as shown in line corresponds to data usage cost over the illustrated time period for Carrier and line corresponds to data usage cost over the illustrated time period for Carrier and so on. Accordingly the cost for data usage of a cellular network accessed by portable user devices may be analyzed to assess billing practices content transfer over different cellular networks and so on.

In view of the data usage described above depicts a system that illustrates data usage by a portable user device of a user in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure. The portable user device may be in communication with a cellular network provided by a cellular network provider represented by cellular network provider servers . The portable user device may communicate with a content and service provider represented by content and service provider servers that may provide services to the portable user device . In some embodiments the content and service provider may include a merchant. For example the content and service provider servers may provide a store for the purchase of electronic goods physical goods or both advertisements web browsing webpage caching and performance and other services. In some embodiments content and services transfers may be provided by different entities of the content and service provider. In some embodiments the portable user device may access cellular wireless service paid by an entity e.g. the content and service provider other than the owner of the portable user device . The content and service provider servers may be a single server in a discrete hardware component or as a virtual server or multiple servers. The content and service provider servers may include web servers application servers or other types of servers. Additionally the content and service provider servers may be for example computers arranged in any physical and virtual configuration such as computers in one or more data processing centers a distributed computing environment or other configurations. Such configurations may use the additional networks for communication.

The cellular network provider servers may store or otherwise have access to call detail records for data transfers occurring over the cellular network . In some embodiments the cellular network provider servers may communicate with the content and service provider servers via an additional network e.g. the Internet . The cellular network provider servers may include a single server in a discrete hardware component or as a virtual server or multiple servers. The cellular network provider servers may include web servers application servers or other types of servers and may be computers arranged in any physical and virtual configuration such as computers in one or more data processing centers a distributed computing environment or other configurations.

In some embodiments the portable user device may communicate with one or more proxy servers to access various services websites and so forth as represented by third party service servers . In some embodiments the one or more proxy servers may be provided by and under the control of the content and service provider. In some embodiments for example the portable user device may access a social networking service via the one or more proxy servers . The proxy servers may be a single server in a discrete hardware component or as a virtual server or multiple servers. The proxy servers may be for example computers arranged in any physical and virtual configuration such as computers in one or more data processing centers a distributed computing environment or other configurations. Such configurations may use the additional networks for communication.

The portable user device may include laptop computers tablet computers smartphones personal digital assistants etc. and may include a cellular radio for the cellular network . The portable user device may include or access applications and content shown in block to provide various capabilities to the user . In some embodiments the applications may enable access to the content and services provided by the content and service provider server . In some embodiments for example the portable user device may provide a browser such as a web browser for retrieving and viewing Internet webpages via the cellular network . In some embodiments the portable user device may provide an online store application for viewing and purchasing goods from the content and service provider. For example in some embodiments the online store application may be or provide access to an e book store for viewing and purchasing e books that may be downloaded to the portable user device via the cellular network . In some embodiments the portable user device may provide social networking applications for interacting with a social networking service. As mentioned above in some embodiments the social networking service may be accessed via one or more proxy servers . In some embodiments the portable user device may provide advertisements to the user . For example the advertisements may be provided by the content and service provider servers and transmitted via the cellular network . Additionally other applications and content may be accessed via the portable user device .

The content and services provided by the content and service provider server may be accessed by the portable user device via the cellular network . As will be appreciated such access may include the transfer of data e.g. transmission of data reception of data or both via the cellular network . For example such data may be referred to as merchant interaction data if the content and service provider includes a merchant. The content and service provider servers that provide content and services to the portable user device may also record the amount of data data usage for the applications and content accessed by the portable user device . As shown in the data usage block for various services corresponding to the applications and content accessed by the portable user device may be accessible e.g. stored obtained etc. by the content and service provider servers and categorized into various categories. For example data transfers corresponding to the browser may be categorized as browser data usage and the data transfers corresponding to the store may be categorized as shopping data usage . Similarly data transfers corresponding to social networking may be categorized as social networking data usage and data usage corresponding to advertisements may be categorized as advertising data usage . In some embodiments the content and service provider servers may also access purchase history for purchases made via the portable user device . In some embodiments other categories in addition to or instead of the categories described above may be used. In some embodiments the data usage may be categorized into more or less granular categories than those described herein. In some embodiments other categories may include for example one or more of e book transfers periodical transfers e.g. newspapers magazines etc. blogs e.g. when a user accesses a blogging website specific websites e.g. a retail website a social cataloguing website and geographic data transfers.

Additionally the cellular network provider may generate one or more call detail records CDRs also referred to as call data records for data transfers performed by the portable user device . For example in some embodiments the call detail record may be generated and stored on the cellular network provider servers . As shown in the example call detail record may include a radio identifier the timeframe for the data transfer the amount of data e.g. a number of bytes and in some embodiments a country identifier identifying the country in which the data transfer occurred. In some embodiments the timeframe includes a start time and an end time. In some embodiments the timeframe includes a time period. As used herein the term time may include a calendar date.

As also shown in the call detail records may be provided to the content and service provider servers for analysis in accordance with the techniques discussed herein.

As described further below the data usage of the portable user device may be evaluated with the call detail records to identify potentially unauthorized use of the cellular network or other irregular activity. In some embodiments the irregular activity may be used to identify bugs in the applications accessed by e.g. executed on the portable user device .

As shown in the transferred data from the call detail records may be determined such as from multiple call detail records over a time period. For example the transferred data from each call detail record produced within a time period may be summed to determine the transferred data . As also shown in the categorized data usage may be summed to determine the total categorized data usage . For example the browser data usage store data usage social networking data usage and other categories of data usage may be added together to determine the total categorized data usage.

The difference between the CDR transferred data and the total categorized data usage may be calculated to determine uncategorized data usage . Accordingly data transferred over the cellular network but not categorized into a known category of data usage may be determined to be uncategorized data usage . As described further below the uncharacterized data usage may be analyzed to determine whether excessive use of the cellular network is occurring. In some embodiments the categorized data usage may also be analyzed to determine whether excessive use of the cellular network is occurring and in some embodiments whether irregular activity is occurring in a specific category.

Initially call detail records for a time period may be obtained block . In some embodiments a cost analysis may be performed on the call detail records block . Based on the cost analysis content transfers to a user device as performed by the content and service provider for example may be modified block to minimize the cost of data transfers. As described above services provided by a service provider may transfer content over the cellular network to a portable user device. For example an e book service may transfer e books to a portable user device such as when a user purchases or otherwise obtains an e book. As will be appreciated cellular network providers may have different billing structures that may vary by country by time of day and other parameters. Thus in some embodiments the cost analysis block may be performed based on the billing structures to reduce the cost of transferring content. For example in some embodiments if a cellular network provider has a billing structure such that the rate to transfer content outside of the U.S. is significantly higher than the rate to transfer content inside the U.S. a service may wait until a portable user device is located in the U.S. and is able to transfer data in the U.S. before initiating the transfer of content.

As described above data transfer logs associated with the user device and for the time period may also be obtained block . In some embodiments a content and service provider may obtain data transfer logs for different content and services provided by the content and service provider. In some embodiments the content and services transfers may be provided by different entities of the content and service provider and each entity may provide a data transfer log for its respective content and services transfers. In some embodiments as mentioned above a proxy server may be used to access third party services and data transfer logs that log data transferred via the proxy service may be obtained. Thus obtaining data transfer logs may include obtaining data transfer logs from different entities in order to collect data transfer logs for all of the services used by a portable user device.

As mentioned above the data usage from the data usage logs may be categorized into different categories block . Data usage from one or more services may be categorized into a specific category. For example as noted above data usage associated with a store service provided by the service provider and an online store application may be categorized into a shopping category. In another example data usage associated with a social networking service may be categorized into a social networking category. In this manner data usage for each service accessed by the portable user device may be categorized into a category.

Next the transferred data from the call detail records for a portable user device may be compared to the categorized data usage for the portable user device block . In some embodiments the call detail records may include a radio identifier that identifies a cellular radio used to transfer data over a cellular network. In some embodiments the data usage logs may include an account identifier that identifies the device accessing a service. In some embodiments the transferred data from the call detail records may be correlated to a specific portable user device via a mapping between the radio identifier and the account identifier.

The difference between the transmitted data and the categorized data usage may be calculated block to determine uncategorized data usage block and categorized data usage block . In some embodiments as mentioned above the transferred data from the call detail records over a time period may be summed and the total categorized data usage may be determined by summing the data usage for all categories. The difference between the total transferred data from the call detail records and the total categorized data usage is the uncategorized data usage 

In some embodiments uncategorized data usage may be categorized into new or existing categories block . Some uncategorized data usage occurring over a period of time may be matched to a new or existing category. For example a new application executing on the portable user device may access a new service provided by the content and service provider and data transfers associated with the application may be categorized into a category associated with the new service.

Next the remaining uncategorized data usage may be analyzed block and excessive use based on the uncategorized data usage may be identified from the analysis block . The uncategorized data usage may be analyzed using for example statistical data analysis techniques to determine whether the uncategorized data usage is excessive and in some embodiments unauthorized use of the cellular network. In some embodiments the statistical analysis techniques may include one or more of the following data pre processing techniques for detection validation error correction and completion of missing data incorrect data or both calculation of statistical parameters such as averages quantiles performance metrics probability distributions and other suitable statistical parameters determination of models probability distributions or both for various business activities such that activities may be represented in terms of parameters or probability distributions computation of user profiles such as user profiles that describe a user s usage of various services time series analysis of time dependent data clustering and classification to determine patterns and associations in the uncategorized data usage and matching algorithms to detect anomalies in the behaviors of transactions and users as compared to previously known models and algorithms and in some embodiments to detect and eliminate false alarms estimate risks and predict further transactions and users.

In some embodiments for example uncategorized data usage above a threshold may result in an alarm to prompt further investigation of the data usage or in some embodiments to flag a portable user device as performing unauthorized use of a cellular network. In some embodiments the uncategorized data usage may be compared to historical uncategorized data usage for a device or a group of devices to determine whether such data usage is associated with unauthorized activity. In some embodiments the cost of the uncategorized data usage may be determined and the cost of the uncategorized data usage may be compared to a cost threshold.

In some embodiments the uncategorized data usage may be analyzed to determine irregular activity and the causes of such activity. Such irregular activity may include or be caused by for example software bugs e.g. application bugs firmware bugs etc. billing mistakes in bills received from a cellular network provider and other activities. An example of such activity may include a software bug for an application that results in data usage above a threshold over a period of time.

In some embodiments the specific categorized data usage may be analyzed block . In some embodiments excessive use of the cellular network may be identified from the categorized data usage block . Analysis of the data usage in a specific category may include any one or a combination of the statistical data analysis techniques described above with regard to the uncategorized data usage. In some embodiments for example categorized data usage above a category specific threshold may be indicative of unauthorized activity and may result in an alarm or flagging of a portable user device. In some embodiments the data usage in a specific category may be compared to historical data usage e.g. purchase history for a category for a portable user device or a group of portable user devices. In some embodiments the data usage for a specific category may be cross referenced against activity e.g. purchase history associated with a service. For example if a service such as a store experiences a large increase in purchases after the release of a popular application or other product the category specific data usage for a shopping category may increase for some portable user devices. If for example the data usage in the shopping category exceeds the data usage associated with the purchase history the data usage in the shopping category may be determined to be excessive use of the cellular network. In some embodiments a purchase history may be associated with an account identifier associated with a user device and one of multiple profiles associated with the account identifier. In such embodiments the purchase history for one or multiple profiles may be used to analyze the data usage for a specific category.

Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments irregular data usage may also be identified from the analysis of data usage in specific categories. Such irregular data usage may include or be caused by for example software bugs e.g. application bugs firmware bugs etc. inefficient software and other irregularities. For example if an online store application has been recently updated and the data usage in the shopping category shows significant increases the activity may be identified as a potential bug in the store application.

In some embodiments reports may be generated using the analysis described above in the process . In some embodiments the report may include the graphs depicted in and described above. In some embodiments a report of irregular data usage in a specific category may be generated and provided to an entity of a content and service provider that provides an application or service associated with the category. For example a report of data usage in a shopping category may be generated and provided to an entity associated with an e book store.

Next data processing of the CDR data may be performed using large data set processing and queries block . In some embodiments the large data set processing may be performed using MapReduce or another suitable programming data model. In some embodiments the queries may be implemented using Hive QL or another suitable query language. Next the processed data files may be uploaded to a data warehouse block .

The processed CDR data may be loaded into a cellular provider specific carrier specific table of the data warehouse block . Additionally common carrier data such as carrier usage data and usage cost may be loaded into a common table of the data warehouse block . A unique identifier may be stored for each CDR to ensure that the records are idempotent in the table and to ensure a direct relationship with the common table described.

The computing resource environment may provide various computing resources services to its customers. The services provided by the computing resource content and service provider in this example include a virtual computer system and a data warehouse . In some embodiments additional resources may be provided in addition to or as an alternative to the resources explicitly described. As described each of the services and may include one or more resource interfaces e.g. web interfaces that enable the submission of appropriately configured application programming interface API calls to the various resources through appropriate requests. In addition each of the resources may include one or more resource interfaces that enable the resources to access each other e.g. to enable a virtual computer system of the computing resource environment to store data in or retrieve data from the data warehouse .

The virtual computer system may be a collection of computing resources configured to instantiate virtual machine instances on behalf of the customer. The customer may interact with the virtual computer system via appropriately configured and authenticated API calls to provision and operate virtual computer systems that are instantiated on physical computing devices hosted and operated by the computing resource content and service provider. The virtual computer system may be used for various purposes such as to operate as servers supporting a website to operate business applications or generally to serve as computing power for the customer. Other applications for the virtual computer system may be to support database applications electronic commerce applications business applications and or other applications. Although the virtual computer system is shown in any other computer system or computer system service may be utilized in the computing resource environment such as a computer system or computer system service that does not employ virtualization or instantiation and instead provisions computing resources on dedicated or shared computers servers and or other physical devices.

The data warehouse may be a collection of computing resources that collectively operate to run one or more data collections e.g. databases . Such data collections may be operated and managed by utilizing appropriately configured API calls. This in turn may allow a user of the computing resource environment to maintain and potentially scale the operations in the database.

As shown in in some embodiments call detail records CDRs may be sent to the computing resource environment such as by the file transfer protocol FTP . In some embodiments the CDRs are sent directly to the computing resource environment . In some embodiments the CDRs may be sent from cellular network providers to a server or other computer and then retrieved by the CDR analysis process and stored in a resource provided by the computing resource environment . As described above data usage logs may also be obtained and processed by the CDR analysis process .

The virtual computer system may provide resources to facilitate execution of the CDR analysis process . As described herein the CDR analysis process may process the CDRs and store some or all of the data from the CDRs in the data warehouse . The data from the CDRs may be stored in a suitable data structure such as the CDR data tables shown in . In some embodiments the CDR data tables may include the common table and carrier tables described above.

The CDR analysis process may process the data from the CDRs and the data usage logs in accordance with the techniques described herein. In some embodiments the CDR analysis process may produce reports that provide the analyzed results. For example the reports may include uncategorized data usage for portable user devices categorized data usage for portable user devices cost data for cellular content and service providers and other information. In some embodiments the CDR analysis process may provide alarms or other notifications based on the analysis of uncategorized data usage the analysis of categorized data usage or both. For example as described above an alarm or other notification may be provided if the statistical analysis of uncategorized data usage determines excessive use e.g. unauthorized use of a cellular network. In another example as also described above an alarm or other notification may be provided if the categorized data usage exceeds a threshold for a specific category.

The user device may include a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a smart phone a vehicle mounted computer or the like. The user device may be connected to other devices that are not illustrated or may operate as a stand alone system. As shown in the embodiment illustrated in the user device may include one or more processors e.g. processors a memory a display input output I O ports a cellular network interface and an interface . Additionally the user device may include or be coupled to I O devices .

The processor may provide the processing capability to execute the operating system programs user interface and other functions of the user device . The processor may include one or more processors and may include special purpose microprocessors such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or any combination thereof. In some embodiments the processor may include one or more reduced instruction set computer RISC processors such as those implementing the Advanced RISC Machine ARM instruction set. Additionally the processor may include single core processors and multicore processors and may include graphics processors video processors and related chip sets. Accordingly the user device may be a uni processor system having one processor e.g. processor or a multi processor system having two or more suitable processors e.g. . The processor may receive instructions and data from a memory e.g. system memory .

The memory which may include one or more tangible non transitory computer readable storage mediums may include volatile memory and non volatile memory accessible by the processor and other components of the user device . The memory may store executable computer code such as the firmware for the user device an operating system for the user device and any other programs or other executable code for providing the functions of the user device . Such executable computer code may include applications that enable access to various services via a service provided as described herein. For example the applications may include a store application an e reader application a web browser a social networking application advertising applications e.g. applications that display advertisements and various other applications. Program instructions stored on the memory may include a computer program written in suitable programming languages including compiled or interpreted languages or declarative or procedural languages.

As mentioned above the memory may include volatile memory such as random access memory RAM . The memory may also include non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM flash memory a hard drive other suitable optical magnetic or solid state storage mediums or any combination thereof. The memory may store data files such as media e.g. music and video files software e.g. for implementing functions on the user device user preference information purchase information network connection information and any other suitable data.

In some embodiments the display may include a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED display or other display types. The display may display a user interface e.g. a graphical user interface executed by the processor of the user device . The display may also display various indicators to provide feedback to a user such as power status call status memory status network status etc. These indicators may be incorporated in the user interface displayed on the display . In some embodiments the display may be or may include a touch screen and a user may interface with the user device with the touch screen.

The interface may include multiple interfaces and may enable communication between various components of the user device the processor and the memory . In some embodiments the interface the processor the memory and one or more other components of the user device may be implemented on a single chip such as a system on a chip SOC . In other embodiments these components their functionalities or both may be implemented on separate chips. The interface may coordinate I O traffic between the processors the memory the cellular network interface or any other devices or a combination thereof. The interface may perform protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. the memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processors . The interface may implement various types of interfaces such as Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI interfaces Universal Serial Bus USB interfaces Thunderbolt interfaces Firewire IEEE 1394 interfaces and so on.

The user device may also include I O port to enable connection of additional devices such as the I O devices . Embodiments of the present invention may include any number of I O ports including headphone and headset jacks universal serial bus USB ports Firewire IEEE 1394 ports Thunderbolt ports and AC and DC power connectors. Further the user device may use the I O ports to connect to and to send or receive data from any other device such as other portable computers personal computers printers etc.

The operations and processes described and shown above may be carried out or performed in any suitable order as desired in various implementations. Additionally in certain implementations at least a portion of the operations may be carried out in parallel. Furthermore in certain implementations less than or more than the operations described may be performed.

Certain aspects of the disclosure are described above with reference to block and flow diagrams of systems methods apparatus and or computer program products according to various implementations. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and the flow diagrams respectively can be implemented by computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some implementations.

These computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a special purpose computer or other particular machine a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage media or memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable storage media produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. As an example certain implementations may provide for a computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having a computer readable program code or program instructions implemented therein said computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide elements or steps for implementing the functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain implementations could include while other implementations do not include certain features elements and or operations. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or operations are in any way required for one or more implementations or that one or more implementations necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or operations are included or are to be performed in any particular implementation.

Many modifications and other implementations of the disclosure set forth herein will be apparent having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the disclosure is not to be limited to the specific implementations disclosed and that modifications and other implementations are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

