---

title: Images for a question answering system
abstract: A method for providing content relevant images for an input question to a deep question answering system is disclosed. The method can include formulating, in response to receiving the input question, an answer to the input question. The method can also include identifying, based on the answer to the input question, a set of candidate images from a corpus of information. The set of candidate images may relate to the answer. The method can also include determining, based on a confidence value of the set of candidate images and a designated display specification, a first subset of the set of candidate images to provide in a display area. The method can also include selecting the first subset to be provided in the display area.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471601&OS=09471601&RS=09471601
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09471601
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140325
---
This disclosure relates generally to computer systems and more particularly relates to providing content relevant images for an answer in a question answering system.

The amount of data and information available on the internet and other communication networks is growing rapidly. Question answering systems are one tool by which a user may find desired information. As the amount of available information increases the need for question answering systems may also increase.

Aspects of the present disclosure in certain embodiments are directed toward a method in a deep question answering system for providing content relevant images for an input question. In certain embodiments the method can include formulating in response to receiving the input question an answer to the input question. The method can also include identifying a set of candidate images from a corpus of information. The set of candidate images may relate to the answer to the input question. Further in certain embodiments the method can include determining a first subset of the set of images to provide in a display area. In certain embodiments determining the first subset of the set of images can be based on a confidence value of the set of candidate images. In certain embodiments the method can include selecting the first subset to be provided in the display area.

Aspects of the present disclosure in certain embodiments are directed toward a computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having a computer readable program stored therein. When the computer readable program is executed on a first computing device it can cause the first computing device to formulate in response to receiving an input question an answer to the input question. In certain embodiments the computer readable program can cause the first computing device to identify a set of candidate images from a corpus of information based on the answer to the input question. In certain embodiments the set of images can be related to the answer to the input question. In certain embodiments the computer readable program can cause the first computing device to determine a first subset of the set of images to provide in a display area. Determining the first subset of the set of images can be based on a confidence value of the set of images. In certain embodiments the computer readable program can cause the first computing device to select the first subset to be provided in the display area.

Aspects of the present disclosure in certain embodiments are directed toward an apparatus comprising a processor and a memory coupled to the processor. The memory can comprise instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to formulate in response to receiving an input question an answer to the input question. In certain embodiments the instructions can cause the processor to identify a set of candidate images from a corpus of information based on the answer to the input question. The set of candidate images can relate to the answer to the input question. In certain embodiments the instructions can cause the processor to determine a first subset of the set of candidate images to provide in a display area. Determining the first subset of the set of candidate images can in certain embodiments be based on a confidence value of the set of candidate images and a designated display specification. In certain embodiments the instructions can cause the processor to select the first subset to be provided in the display area.

The above summary is not intended to describe each illustrated embodiment or every implementation of the present disclosure.

While the invention is amenable to various modifications and alternative forms specifics thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail. It should be understood however that the intention is not to limit the invention to the particular embodiments described. On the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention.

Aspects of the present disclosure relate to various embodiments of a system and methodology for a computer implemented question answering system. More particular aspects relate to providing content relevant images for an answer in the question answering system. The methodology may include formulating an answer to an input question received by the question answering system. The methodology may include identifying a set of candidate images. The set of candidate images may be identified based on the answer to the input question and may relate to the answer. The methodology may include determining a first subset of the set of candidate images to display in a display area. Determining the images to display may be based on a confidence value of the set of candidate images and a designated display specification. Further the method can include selecting the first subset to be provided in the display area.

As the amount of information available over computer networks such as the Internet rapidly increases question answering systems have become an important tool in assisting users with the gathering searching and analysis of data. However aspects of the present disclosure relate to the recognition that in certain situations the results provided to a user in response to an input question may not contain all of the information that a user is looking for. Additionally searches for textual information and searches for images are often separate requiring a user to perform multiple separate searches to find both information and images relevant to the original search query. Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure relate to a system and method for providing images relevant to the content of the input question along with a textual answer to the input question. The images may be selected based on a variety of factors including relevance to the original input question as well as the size of the image in relation to the size of the display. The present disclosure may provide benefits associated with increased search efficiency saving a user the time of performing multiple searches and image visibility.

Aspects of the present disclosure relate to a system and method for providing images related to a question answer in a question answering system. For example for a search question of How do I move pictures from my camera to my PC in addition to a textual answer images could be provided from a camera instruction manual or a technical support forum. Further the images selected to display along with the textual answer may be chosen based on the size of the images in relation to the screen size of the device. For example larger images could be selected to be displayed if the user is viewing the textual answer and images on a computer monitor and smaller images could be selected if the user is viewing the textual answer and images on a mobile device such as a smart phone.

Aspects of the present disclosure include a method and system for managing a computer implemented question answering system. More particular aspects relate to providing content relevant images for an answer in the question answering system. The method and system may work on a number of devices and operating systems. The method and system can include formulating an answer to an input question received by the question answering system.

Aspects of the present disclosure can include identifying a set of candidate images. Identifying the candidate images can be based on the answer to the input question and the set of candidate images can relate to the answer. The set of candidate images may be located within a corpus of information. The corpus of information can contain documents and images accessible for search. The answer to the input question can be formulated based on information from a first document and the set of candidate images can be identified from a second document. Accordingly identifying the set of candidate images can include performing a search of the corpus of information containing the first document and the second document.

Aspects of the present disclosure can include determining a first subset of the set of candidate images to provide in a display area. Determining the first subset of the set of candidate images can be based on a confidence value of the set of candidate images and a designated display specification. The confidence value of the set of candidate images may be based on similarity of content between the answer to the input question and the set of candidate images. Aspects of the present disclosure can include comparing using a natural language processing technique textual information coupled to the set of candidate images with the answer to the input question. Based on comparing the method can include assigning a confidence measure value to the set of candidate images. Further the method can include selecting in response to a first subset having a confidence measure value greater than a threshold value the first subset to provide in the image display area. Additionally the method can include providing a control interface configured to display an additional subset of the set of candidate images. The method can also include appending a reference indicating the first subset to a text description associated with the answer to the input question.

The designated display specification of the candidate images and the display area may include a first dimension of the set of candidate images and a second dimension of the display area. Aspects of the present disclosure can include computing the first dimension of the set of candidate images and the second dimension of the display area. The method can include comparing the first dimension of the set of candidate images with the second dimension of the display area. Based on comparing the method can include assigning a proportional value to a subset of the candidate images.

Aspects of the present disclosure can include selecting in response to a third subset having a confidence measure value greater than a first threshold value the third subset to display in the image display area. The method may further include selecting a third subset and a fourth subset to display in the image display area in response to the third subset having a proportional value greater than or equal to a first proportional threshold value. The method can also include selecting in response to the third subset having a proportional value greater than or equal to a third proportional threshold value a fifth subset of the candidate of the candidate images having a proportional value lower than the third subset. The method can further include scaling the first dimension of the third subset in response to the third subset having a confidence measure value higher than a second confidence measure threshold value and a proportional value greater than a second proportional threshold value.

Turning now to the figures is a diagrammatic illustration of an exemplary computing environment consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure. In certain embodiments the environment can include one or more remote devices and one or more host devices . Remote devices and host device may be distant from each other and communicate over a network in which the host device comprises a central hub from which remote devices can establish a communication connection. Alternatively the host device and remote devices may be configured in any other suitable relationship e.g. in a peer to peer or other relationship .

In certain embodiments the network can be implemented by any number of any suitable communications media e.g. wide area network WAN local area network LAN Internet Intranet etc. . Alternatively remote devices and host devices may be local to each other and communicate via any appropriate local communication medium e.g. local area network LAN hardwire wireless link Intranet etc. . In certain embodiments the network can be implemented within a cloud computing environment or using one or more cloud computing services. Consistent with various embodiments a cloud computing environment can include a network based distributed data processing system that provides one or more cloud computing services. In certain embodiments a cloud computing environment can include many computers hundreds or thousands of them disposed within one or more data centers and configured to share resources over the network.

In certain embodiments host device can include a question answering system also referred to herein as a QA system having a search application and an answer module . In certain embodiments the search application may be implemented by a conventional or other search engine and may be distributed across multiple computer systems. The search application can be configured to search one or more databases or other computer systems for content that is related to a question input by a user at a remote device .

In certain embodiments remote devices enable users to submit questions e.g. search requests or other queries to host devices to retrieve search results. For example the remote devices may include a query module e.g. in the form of a web browser or any other suitable software module and present a graphical user e.g. GUI etc. or other interface e.g. command line prompts menu screens etc. to solicit queries from users for submission to one or more host devices and further to display answers results obtained from the host devices in relation to such queries.

Consistent with various embodiments host device and remote devices may be computer systems preferably equipped with a display or monitor. In certain embodiments the computer systems may include at least one processor memories and or internal or external network interface or communications devices e.g. modem network cards etc. optional input devices e.g. a keyboard mouse or other input device and any commercially available and custom software e.g. browser software communications software server software natural language processing software search engine and or web crawling software filter modules for filtering content based upon predefined criteria etc. . In certain embodiments the computer systems may include server desktop laptop and hand held devices. In addition the answer module may include one or more modules or units to perform the various functions of present disclosure embodiments described below e.g. formulating an answer to an input question identifying a set of candidate images determined images to provide selecting a subset etc. and may be implemented by any combination of any quantity of software and or hardware modules or units.

The various components of the exemplary high level logical architecture for a QA system described above may be used to implement various aspects of the present disclosure. For example the question analysis component could in certain embodiments be used to process a natural language question for which relevant images can be provided. Further the search component can in certain embodiments be used to perform a search of a corpus of information for a set of images that are related to an answer to an input question to the QA system. The candidate generation component can be used to identify a set of candidate images based on the results of the search component . Further the answer selection component can in certain embodiments be used to determine and select a subset of the set of candidate images to provide in a display area. In certain embodiments the determination of the subset of the candidate images can be based on a confidence value of the set of images and a designated display specification.

A question similarly referred to herein as a query may be one or more words that form a search term or request for data information or knowledge. A question may be expressed in the form of one or more keywords. Questions may include various selection criteria and search terms. A question may be composed of complex linguistic features not only keywords. However keyword based search for answer is also possible. In certain embodiments using unrestricted syntax for questions posed by users is enabled. The use of restricted syntax results in a variety of alternative expressions for users to better state their needs.

Consistent with various embodiments client applications can include one or more components such as a search application and a mobile client . Client applications can operate on a variety of devices. Such devices include but are not limited to mobile and handheld devices such as laptops mobile phones personal or enterprise digital assistants and the like personal computers servers or other computer systems that access the services and functionality provided by QA system . For example mobile client may be an application installed on a mobile or other handheld device. In certain embodiments mobile client may dispatch query requests to QA system .

Consistent with various embodiments search application can dispatch requests for information to QA system . In certain embodiments search application can be a client application to QA system . In certain embodiments search application can send requests for answers to QA system . Search application may be installed on a personal computer a server or other computer system. In certain embodiments search application can include a search graphical user interface GUI and session manager . Users may enter questions in search GUI . In certain embodiments search GUI may be a search box or other GUI component the content of which represents a question to be submitted to QA system . Users may authenticate to QA system via session manager . In certain embodiments session manager keeps track of user activity across sessions of interaction with the QA system . Session manager may keep track of what questions are submitted within the lifecycle of a session of a user. For example session manager may retain a succession of questions posed by a user during a session. In certain embodiments answers produced by QA system in response to questions posed throughout the course of a user session may also be retained. Information for sessions managed by session manager may be shared between computer systems and devices.

In certain embodiments client applications and QA system can be communicatively coupled through network e.g. the Internet intranet or other public or private computer network. In certain embodiments QA system and client applications may communicate by using Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or Representational State Transfer REST calls. In certain embodiments QA system may reside on a server node. Client applications may establish server client communication with QA system or vice versa. In certain embodiments the network can be implemented within a cloud computing environment or using one or more cloud computing services. Consistent with various embodiments a cloud computing environment can include a network based distributed data processing system that provides one or more cloud computing services.

Consistent with various embodiments QA system may respond to the requests for information sent by client applications e.g. posed questions by users. QA system can generate answers to the received questions. In certain embodiments QA system may include a question analyzer data sources and answer generator . Question analyzer can be a computer module that analyzes the received questions. In certain embodiments question analyzer can perform various methods and techniques for analyzing the questions syntactically and semantically. In certain embodiments question analyzer can parse received questions. Question analyzer may include various modules to perform analyses of received questions. For example computer modules that question analyzer may encompass include but are not limited to a tokenizer part of speech POS tagger semantic relationship identification and syntactic relationship identification .

Consistent with various embodiments tokenizer may be a computer module that performs lexical analysis. Tokenizer can convert a sequence of characters into a sequence of tokens. Tokens may be string of characters typed by a user and categorized as a meaningful symbol. Further in certain embodiments tokenizer can identify word boundaries in an input question and break the question or any text into its component parts such as words multiword tokens numbers and punctuation marks. In certain embodiments tokenizer can receive a string of characters identify the lexemes in the string and categorize them into tokens.

Consistent with various embodiments POS tagger can be a computer module that marks up a word in a text to correspond to a particular part of speech. POS tagger can read a question or other text in natural language and assign a part of speech to each word or other token. POS tagger can determine the part of speech to which a word corresponds based on the definition of the word and the context of the word. The context of a word may be based on its relationship with adjacent and related words in a phrase sentence question or paragraph. In certain embodiments context of a word may be dependent on one or more previously posed questions. Examples of parts of speech that may be assigned to words include but are not limited to nouns verbs adjectives adverbs and the like. Examples of other part of speech categories that POS tagger may assign include but are not limited to comparative or superlative adverbs wh adverbs conjunctions determiners negative particles possessive markers prepositions wh pronouns and the like. In certain embodiments POS tagger can tag or otherwise annotates tokens of a question with part of speech categories. In certain embodiments POS tagger can tag tokens or words of a question to be parsed by QA system .

Consistent with various embodiments semantic relationship identification may be a computer module that can identify semantic relationships of recognized entities in questions posed by users. In certain embodiments semantic relationship identification may determine functional dependencies between entities the dimension associated to a member and other semantic relationships.

Consistent with various embodiments syntactic relationship identification may be a computer module that can identify syntactic relationships in a question composed of tokens posed by users to QA system . Syntactic relationship identification can determine the grammatical structure of sentences for example which groups of words are associated as phrases and which word is the subject or object of a verb. In certain embodiments syntactic relationship identification can conform to a formal grammar.

In certain embodiments question analyzer may be a computer module that can parse a received query and generate a corresponding data structure of the query. For example in response to receiving a question at QA system question analyzer can output the parsed question as a data structure. In certain embodiments the parsed question may be represented in the form of a parse tree or other graph structure. To generate the parsed question question analyzer may trigger computer modules . Question analyzer can use functionality provided by computer modules individually or in combination. Additionally in certain embodiments question analyzer may use external computer systems for dedicated tasks that are part of the question parsing process.

Consistent with various embodiments the output of question analyzer can be used by QA system to perform a search of one or more data sources to retrieve information to answer a question posed by a user. In certain embodiments data sources may include data warehouses information corpora data models and document repositories. In certain embodiments the data source can be an information corpus . The information corpus can enable data storage and retrieval. In certain embodiments the information corpus may be a storage mechanism that houses a standardized consistent clean and integrated form of data. The data may be sourced from various operational systems. Data stored in the information corpus may be structured in a way to specifically address reporting and analytic requirements. In one embodiment the information corpus may be a relational database. In some example embodiments data sources may include one or more document repositories.

In certain embodiments answer generator may be a computer module that generates answers to posed questions. Examples of answers generated by answer generator may include but are not limited to answers in the form of natural language sentences reports charts or other analytic representation raw data web pages and the like.

Consistent with various embodiments answer generator may include query processor visualization processor and feedback handler . When information in a data source matching a parsed question is located a technical query associated with the pattern can be executed by query processor . Based on retrieved data by a technical query executed by query processor visualization processor can render visualization of the retrieved data where the visualization represents the answer. In certain embodiments visualization processor may render various analytics to represent the answer including but not limited to images charts tables dashboards maps and the like. In certain embodiments visualization processor can present the answer to the user in understandable form.

In certain embodiments feedback handler can be a computer module that processes feedback from users on answers generated by answer generator . In certain embodiments users may be engaged in dialog with the QA system to evaluate the relevance of received answers. Answer generator may produce a list of answers corresponding to a question submitted by a user. The user may rank each answer according to its relevance to the question. In certain embodiments the feedback of users on generated answers may be used for future question answering sessions.

The various components of the exemplary question answering system described above may be used to implement various aspects of the present disclosure. For example the client application could be used to receive a question from a user. The question analyzer could in certain embodiments be used to process a natural language question for which relevant images can be provided. Further the question answering system could in certain embodiments be used to perform a search of an information corpus for a set of images that are related to an answer to an input question to the question answering system. The answer generator can be used to identify a set of candidate images based on the results of the search performed by the question answering system . Further the visualization processor can in certain embodiments be used to determine and select a subset of the set of candidate images to provide in a display area. In certain embodiments the determination of the subset of the candidate images can be based on a confidence value of the set of images and a designated display specification.

Consistent with various embodiments at block the method can include formulating an answer to an input question to the QA system. In certain embodiments formulating an answer to an input question can include using a QA system such as the QA system of . For example formulating the answer to a question can include receiving a question in a QA system from a mobile client. A question analyzer may parse the question identify tokens tag the parts of speech and determine the semantic and syntactic relationships present in the question. The QA system may then consult a data source such as an information corpus to retrieve documents and information to answer the question. In certain embodiments formulating the answer to a question can include using an answer generator to organize and render the information in the form of an answer to the question.

Consistent with various embodiments at block the method can include identifying a set of candidate images relevant to the answer to the question. In certain embodiments the set of candidate images can be located within a corpus of information containing documents and information accessible for search by the method . In certain embodiments the answer to the input question can be formulated based on information in a first document and the set of candidate images can be identified from one or more different documents. For example for an input question of What cable is needed to transmit video from my home theater PC to my TV the answer may be generated from a TV instruction manual while images relevant to the answer e.g. images showing the specific cable may be identified from a technical blog website or retailer product specifications.

In certain embodiments identifying the set of candidate images can include using a natural language processing technique. The natural language processing technique can be configured to recognize keywords contextual information and metadata tags associated with a set of images and the answer to the input question. In certain embodiments the natural language processing technique can be configured to analyze summary information keywords figure captions and text descriptions coupled with a set of images and use syntactic and semantic elements present in this information to identify the set of candidate images. The syntactic and semantic elements can include information such as word frequency word meanings text font italics hyperlinks proper names noun phrases and the context of surrounding words. Other syntactic and semantic elements are also possible.

As an example in certain embodiments an image may be referenced within a text description or could be accessible via a hyperlink embedded in the text. The natural language processing technique can follow such references to locate the image. Additionally in certain embodiments the documents in the corpus of information can be pre processed and annotated to indicate references to instructions concepts and procedures that may be relevant to the process of identifying a set of candidate images.

Consistent with various embodiments at block the method can include determining a first subset of the set of candidate images to provide in a display area. In certain embodiments the display area can be a portion of an interface configured to provide images. As discussed in greater detail below determining the first subset of the set of candidate images can be based on a confidence measure value similarly referred to herein as a confidence value of the set of images and a designated display specification. In certain embodiments the confidence value of the set of candidate images can be based on similarity between contextual information associated with the set of candidate images and the answer to the input question. In certain embodiments the designated display specification can include a first dimension of the set of candidate images and a second dimension of the display area. Put differently the designated display specification can be based on the size e.g. dimensions of the set of candidate images and the size of the display area e.g. portion of a screen configured to display an image . As discussed in greater detail below in certain embodiments the designated display specification can include assigning the set of candidate images a proportional value. In certain embodiments the proportional value can be based on the size of the display area and the size of the set of candidate images. For example the proportional value may be a percentage or fractional value that refers to what portion of the display area will be occupied by the set of candidate images. For instance a certain image may be assigned a proportional value of 50 indicating that if provided it will occupy 50 of the display area.

Consistent with various embodiments the designated display specification can be based on a variety of factors associated with the set of the candidate images. For instance it can be based on the size of the image resolution of the image degree of compression and the like. In certain embodiments an algorithm may be utilized to generate confidence measure values for the set of candidate images based on these and other factors.

In certain embodiments the method can include appending a reference indicating the first subset to a text description associated with the answer to the input question. For example a reference such as See could be inserted in an appropriate place within the text description of an answer to a question. Additionally in certain embodiments the method can include providing a control interface configured to display a second subset of the set of candidate images. In certain embodiments the control interface could be for example a ribbon menu accessible by a user and configured to display additional images that were not included in the first subset. Such a control interface could be useful in situations where an additional set of images could not be displayed with the first subset e.g. for space allocation reasons image resolution or the like . Accordingly a user could select the ribbon menu and view additional images that may be relevant to the answer to the input question.

Consistent with various embodiments at block the method can include selecting one or more subsets of the set of candidate images to provide in a display area. As described in greater detail below selecting the one or more subsets can be based upon the proportional values and the confidence measure values of the one or more subsets. In certain embodiments the subsets may include one or more images. In certain embodiments a single subset of images can be selected to be provided in the display area. In certain embodiments multiple subsets of images can be selected to be provided in the display area. Whether a single subset or multiple subsets are selected to be provided in the display area can be determined based upon the proportional value and the confidence measure value of the subsets.

As shown in at block operation can include comparing textual information coupled to the set of candidate images with the answer to an input question. In certain embodiments a natural language processing technique can be used to assess the similarity between the textual information affiliated with the set of candidate images and the answer to the input question. In certain embodiments the natural language processing technique can be configured to analyze summary information keywords figure captions and text descriptions coupled with the set of candidate images and use syntactic and semantic elements present in this information to identify the set of candidate images. The syntactic and semantic elements can include information such as word frequency word meanings text font italics hyperlinks proper names noun phrases and the context of surrounding words.

In certain embodiments at block operation can include assigning a confidence measure value to the set of candidate images based on the results of comparing . The confidence measure value can be a numerical value indicating similarity and relevance between the set of candidate images and the answer to the input question. For example a first subset of the set of candidate images may be assigned a greater number to indicate greater relevance between the first subset and the answer to the input question and second subset may be assigned a lower number to indicate lesser relevance between the second subset and the answer to the input question. At block operation can include selecting a first subset of the set of candidate images to provide in a display area. In certain embodiments the first subset may be selected in response to having a confidence measure value greater than a confidence threshold value. Such a configuration can provide benefits associated with providing a user one or more images highly relevant to his or her input question.

As shown in at block operation can include computing a first dimension of the set of candidate images and a second dimension of the display area. In certain embodiments multiple dimensions can be computed for the set of candidate images and the display area. For example in certain embodiments the length and height of the set of candidate images and the display area can be computed. At block operation can include comparing the first dimension of the set of candidate images with the second dimension of the display area. Based on comparing the first dimension of the set of candidate images with the second dimension of the display area at block the method can include assigning a proportional value to a subset of the candidate images. The proportional value can for example be a numerical value such as a percentage a decimal or a fraction that indicates the portion of the display area that will be occupied by the set of candidate images. For instance a certain image may be assigned a proportional value of 50 indicating that if provided it will occupy 50 of the display area. As another example an image may be assigned a proportional value of 0.75 indicating that if provided it will occupy three fourths of the display area.

As shown in in certain embodiments at block the operation can be configured to select a single subset of the set of candidate images to provide in the display area. As an example in certain embodiments a first subset of the set of candidate images may be selected in response to the first subset having a proportional value greater than or equal to a first proportional threshold value. The first proportional threshold value can for example be a minimum size limit for a subset of images. For instance the first proportional threshold value may be 85 indicating that a subset having a proportional value greater than or equal to 85 e.g. a subset that would occupy 85 or more of the display area is requested. Accordingly such a configuration can provide benefits associated with providing a single large subset in the display area.

Consistent with various embodiments at block the operation can be configured to select multiple subsets of the set of candidate images to provide in the display area. As an example in certain embodiments in response to a second subset having a proportional threshold value less than a second proportional threshold value the operation can include selecting both the second subset and a third subset of the candidate images. For instance the second proportional threshold value may be 60 and the proportional value of the second subset may be 40 . In such a situation the operation could select the second subset as well as a third subset. The third subset may also have a proportional value lower than the second proportional value threshold. For example the third subset may have a proportional value of 30 . Accordingly the operation could select both the second subset as well as the third subset to provide in the display area. Such a configuration can provide benefits associated with providing multiple relevant subsets in the display area.

In certain embodiments at block the operation can be configured to select a smaller subset e.g. a subset having a proportional value less than one or more other subsets of the set of candidate images of the set of candidate images to provide in the display area. As an example in certain embodiments in response to a fourth subset having a proportional value greater than or equal to a third proportional threshold value the operation can include selecting a fifth subset of the candidate images having a proportional value lower than the third subset. For instance in certain embodiments the third proportional threshold value may be 70 and the fourth subset may have a proportional value of 80 . Accordingly the operation can select a fifth subset having a proportional value less than that of the fourth subset such at 75 . Such a configuration can be useful in situations where for example the fifth subset has a confidence value higher than that of the fourth subset. Additionally such a configuration can have further benefits for providing a subset that is appropriate for the dimensions of the display area.

As shown in in certain embodiments at block the operation can be configured to scale a subset of the set of candidate images to provide in the display area. Scaling can include shrinking or enlarging the subset based on the dimensions of the display area. For example in certain embodiments in response to a sixth subset having a confidence measure value greater than a second confidence measure threshold value and a proportional value greater than a fourth proportional threshold value the operation can include resizing the image. Such a configuration can be particularly useful for situations where a particular subset has a high confidence value but is too large to fit in the display area. For example the second confidence measure threshold value may be 80 and the fourth proportional threshold value may be 90 . A sixth subset having a confidence measure value of 90 and a proportional value of 95 may be resized decreasing the proportional value and allowing the sixth subset to be provided in the display area. Such a configuration can be useful for providing a subset having a high confidence value in situations where the subset is originally too large to fit in the display area.

In certain embodiments one or more users may send requests for information to QA system using a remote device such as remote devices of . QA system can perform methods and techniques for responding to the requests sent by one or more client applications . Client applications may involve one or more entities operable to generate events dispatched to QA system via network . In certain embodiments the events received at QA system may correspond to input questions received from users where the input questions may be expressed in a free form and in natural language.

Consistent with various embodiments client applications can include one or more components such as a search application and a mobile client . Client applications can operate on a variety of devices. Such devices include but are not limited to mobile and handheld devices such as laptops mobile phones personal or enterprise digital assistants and the like personal computers servers or other computer systems that access the services and functionality provided by QA system . For example mobile client may be an application installed on a mobile or other handheld device. In certain embodiments mobile client may dispatch query requests to QA system .

Consistent with various embodiments search application can dispatch requests for information to QA system . In certain embodiments search application can be a client application to QA system . In certain embodiments search application can send requests for answers to QA system . Search application may be installed on a personal computer a server or other computer system. In certain embodiments search application can include a search graphical user interface GUI and session manager . Users may enter questions in search GUI . In certain embodiments search GUI may be a search box or other GUI component the content of which represents a question to be submitted to QA system . Users may authenticate to QA system via session manager . In certain embodiments session manager keeps track of user activity across sessions of interaction with the QA system . Session manager may keep track of what questions are submitted within the lifecycle of a session of a user. For example session manager may retain a succession of questions posed by a user during a session. In certain embodiments answers produced by QA system in response to questions posed throughout the course of a user session may also be retained. Information for sessions managed by session manager may be shared between computer systems and devices.

Question answering system can include a formulating module . The formulating module can be configured to formulate an answer to an input question received by the question answering system .

The question answering system can include an identifying module configured to identify a set of candidate images. Identifying the candidate images can be based on the answer to the input question and the set of candidate images can relate to the answer. The set of candidate images may be located within a corpus of information. The question answering system can include a corpus of information module configured to access a corpus of information. The corpus of information can contain documents and images accessible for search. The answer to the input question can be formulated based on information from a first document and the set of candidate images can be identified from a second document. Accordingly the question answering system can include a first and second document module configured to perform a search of the corpus of information containing the first document and the second document.

The question answering system can include a determining module configured to determine a first subset of the set of candidate images to provide in a display area. Determining the first subset of the set of candidate images can be based on a confidence value of the set of candidate images and a designated display specification. The confidence value of the set of candidate images may be based on similarity of content between the answer to the input question and the set of candidate images. The determining module can include a relevancy comparing module configured to compare using a natural language processing technique textual information coupled to the set of candidate images with the answer to the input question. Based on comparing the confidence value C.V. assigning module can be configured to assign a confidence measure value to the set of candidate images. Further the selecting module can be configured to select in response to a first subset having a confidence measure value greater than a threshold value the first subset to provide in the image display area. Additionally the method can include a providing module configured to provide a control interface to display an additional subset of the set of candidate images. The method can also include an appending module configured to append a reference indicating the first subset to a text description associated with the answer to the input question.

The designated display specification of the candidate images and the display area may include a first dimension of the set of candidate images and a second dimension of the display area. The determining module can include a computing module configured to compute the first dimension of the set of candidate images and the second dimension of the display area. The dimensional comparing module can be configured to compare the first dimension of the set of candidate images with the second dimension of the display area. Based on comparing the proportional value P.V. assigning module can be configured to assign a proportional value to a subset of the candidate images.

The question answering system can include a selecting module . The selecting module can include a single subset module configured to select in response to a third subset having a confidence measure value greater than a first threshold value the third subset to display in the image display area. The multiple subsets module can be configured to select a third subset and a fourth subset to display in the image display area in response to the third subset having a proportional value greater than or equal to a first proportional threshold value. Further the smaller subset module can be configured to select in response to the third subset having a proportional value greater than or equal to a third proportional threshold value a fifth subset of the candidate of the candidate images having a proportional value lower than the third subset. Additionally the scaling module can be configured to scale the first dimension of the third subset in response to the third subset having a confidence measure value higher than a second confidence measure threshold value and a proportional value greater than a second proportional threshold value.

The present invention may be a system a method and or a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium or media having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.

The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but is not limited to an electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device such as punch cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network and or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables optical transmission fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing processing device receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing processing device.

Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions instruction set architecture ISA instructions machine instructions machine dependent instructions microcode firmware instructions state setting data or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . In some embodiments electronic circuitry including for example programmable logic circuitry field programmable gate arrays FPGA or programmable logic arrays PLA may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry in order to perform aspects of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program instructions.

These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a programmable data processing apparatus and or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of instructions which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present disclosure have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

