---

title: Dual contact pogo pin assembly
abstract: A contact assembly includes a base and a pair of electrical contacts supported by the base. A first end of the first electrical contact corresponds to a first end of the base and is configured to engage a first external conductive circuit element. A first end of the second electrical contact also corresponds to the first end of the base and is configured to engage a second external conductive circuit element. The first contact and the second contact are electrically isolated from one another and configured to compress when engaging an external connector element. The base includes an aperture positioned on a second end of the base outboard of a second end of the first and second electrical contacts. The aperture presents a narrowing shape with a wide mouth distal the electrical contacts and a narrow internal through-hole proximate the electrical contacts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09373908&OS=09373908&RS=09373908
owner: Honeywell Federal Manufacturing & Technologies, LLC
number: 09373908
owner_city: Kansas City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141112
---
The present application is a continuation application and claims priority of a co pending application titled DUAL CONTACT POGO PIN ASSEMBLY Ser. No. 13 736 668 filed Jan. 8 2013 the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention was developed with support from the U.S. government under a contract with the United States Department of Energy Contract No. DE NA0000622. Accordingly the U.S. government has certain rights in the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to electrical connectors. More particularly embodiments of the present invention relate to dual contact electrical connectors configured to minimize physical damage associated with repeated use.

Four wire sensing is a technique used to measure electrical impedance in a circuit under test. Four wire sensing involves using two sets of wires to take measurements rather than a single set of wires. A first pair of wires sometimes referred to as the force wires supplies current to the circuit under test. A second pair of wires also referred to as the sense wires is connected to the circuit under test and used to measure impedance in the circuit. Four wire impedance testing is typically more accurate than two wire impedance testing because very little or no current flows through the sense wires thereby reducing or eliminating the voltage drop across the sense wires that may adversely affect the accuracy of the measurement.

Kelvin type connectors may be used with four wire sensing circuits. Kelvin type connectors include two electrical contacts integrated into a single connector housing and configured to contact a single external conductive element at two different points thus eliminating the need for two separate connectors attached to the conductive element. Because each Kelvin type connector includes two contacts a single pair of Kelvin type connectors can be used to complete a four wire sensing circuit. Kelvin type connectors are especially useful in applications that require four wire sensing circuits or other circuits that involve two sets of wires to be repeatedly and frequently connected and disconnected. One example of this type of application is circuit manufacturing and or testing processes where four wire sensing circuits may be connected and disconnected from circuits under test hundreds or even thousands of times each day.

Unfortunately the repeated and frequent use of electrical connectors may damage the connectors over time. Such damage may occur in elements of the connectors that frequently contact other elements such as electrical contacts that engage and rub against other electrical contacts as connections are made and as connectors are separated. By way of example such frequent contact may occur where a first connector slides into friction fit engagement with another connector each time a connection is made and slides out of friction fit engagement each time the components are separated.

Embodiments of the present invention solve the above described problems by providing an electrical connector including dual contact assemblies with spring biased electrical contacts configured to engage connector elements such as connector pins while minimizing damage to the electrical contacts resulting from rubbing against the connector elements.

A contact assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the invention comprises a base a first electrical contact and a second electrical contact. The base is formed at least partially of an electrically nonconductive material and supports the first and second electrical contacts. A first end of the first electrical contact corresponding to a first end of the base is configured to engage a first external conductive circuit element. A first end of the second electrical contact corresponding to the first end of the base is configured to engage a second external conductive circuit element.

The first contact and the second contact are electrically isolated from one another and each contact is configured to compress when engaging an external connector element. The base includes an aperture positioned on a second end of the base outboard of a second end of the electrical contacts the aperture presenting a narrowing shape with a wide mouth distal the electrical contacts and a narrow internal through hole proximate the electrical contacts.

A connector in accordance with another embodiment of the invention comprises a circuit board a housing secured to the circuit board and a plurality of contact assemblies each disposed within the housing. The circuit board includes a plurality of conductive pads arranged in pairs each pair of pads comprising a first conductive pad and a second conductive pad. Each of the contact assemblies is positioned in an aperture of the housing is configured to shift within the housing and is configured to engage one of the pairs of conductive pads.

Each of the contact assemblies includes a base formed at least partially of an electrically nonconductive material a first electrical contact supported by the base and configured to engage a first conductive pad and a second electrical contact supported by the base and configured to engage a second conductive pad. The first contact and the second contact are electrically isolated from one another and configured to compress when engaging an external connector element. The base includes an aperture positioned on an end of the base opposite the circuit board the aperture being positioned outboard of the first and second electrical contacts and presenting a narrowing shape with a wide mouth distal the electrical contacts and a narrow internal through hole proximate the electrical contacts.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments and the accompanying drawing figures.

The drawing figures do not limit the present invention to the specific embodiments disclosed and described herein. The drawings are not necessarily to scale emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the invention.

The following detailed description references the accompanying drawings that illustrate specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. The embodiments are intended to describe aspects of the invention in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments can be utilized and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense. The scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

In this description references to one embodiment an embodiment or embodiments mean that the feature or features being referred to are included in at least one embodiment of the technology. Separate references to one embodiment an embodiment or embodiments in this description do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment and are also not mutually exclusive unless so stated and or except as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the description. For example a feature structure act etc. described in one embodiment may also be included in other embodiments but is not necessarily included. Thus the present technology can include a variety of combinations and or integrations of the embodiments described herein.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views a contact assembly constructed in accordance with embodiments of the invention is illustrated in . The contact assembly broadly includes a base and a pair of electrical contacts supported by the base . The base supports the electrical contacts in a generally fixed relationship one with the other and is constructed at least in part of an electrically nonconductive material such as plastic such that each of the electrical contacts is electrically isolated from the other. The base presents a generally elongated shape with a first end a second end and an oblong cross section with rounded edge portions . Each of the first end and the second end presents a generally flat outer surface .

A pair of parallel cylindrical boreholes extend from the first end of the base to a contact opening near the second end of the base and are configured to receive and support the electrical contacts . A narrowing aperture on the second end of the base presents a wide mouth distal the contact opening and a round funnel shaped body leading to a narrow through hole that connects the aperture with the contact opening . The narrowing aperture is positioned outboard of the electrical contacts and a center of the aperture is generally aligned with a portion of the base that is between the boreholes . In various embodiments the center of the narrowing aperture corresponds to the center of the base and the boreholes are positioned on opposing sides of the center of the base .

The narrowing aperture is configured to guide an external connector element such as a connector pin into engagement with the electrical contacts wherein the connector element is generally parallel with the contacts and a center of the connector element is positioned between the contacts. In this position the connector element may engage both of the electrical contacts simultaneously. Thus the narrowing aperture may present a substantially conical shape as illustrated or may present a different narrowing configuration operable to guide the connector element to the through hole and into alignment with the electrical contacts .

The base further includes a pair of retention tabs positioned proximate the first end and on opposite sides of the base . The retention tabs are configured to engage corresponding retention recesses in a connector housing as explained below and to retain the base in the housing.

The electrical contacts may be similarly or identically configured therefore electrical contact will be described in detail with the understanding that contact is similarly configured. The electrical contact broadly includes a sleeve a first contact segment a second contact segment and a spring element interposed between the first segment and the second segment . The sleeve presents a cylindrical shape with an annular flange at a first end thereof configured to engage the base and maintain the sleeve in a fixed position relative to the base . The sleeve is fixedly secured in the borehole and may extend from the first end of the base to an inboard side of the contact opening . The sleeve is constructed at least in part of an electrically conductive material such as metal and may provide a conductive path between the first and second segments.

The first contact segment is proximate the first end of the base presents a cylindrical shape and is slidably disposed in the sleeve such that it may move in a longitudinal direction relative to the sleeve retracting and extending during use of the contact assembly . An outboard end of the first contact segment extends beyond the first end of the base and presents a rounded tip . The first contact segment is configured and positioned to engage an external circuit element such as a circuit board pad as explained below in greater detail. The rounded tip is particularly useful because the segment may engage the external circuit element at any of various angles and may pivot during use. An inboard end of the segment engages the spring element .

The second contact segment is proximate the second end of the base presents a cylindrical shape and is slidably disposed in the sleeve such that it may move in a longitudinal direction relative to the sleeve retracting and extending during use of the contact assembly . A first end of the second contact segment extends into the contact opening and is configured to engage the external connector element . The first end includes a contact head presenting a chamfered tip with a plurality of surface faces each angled downwardly from a central point of the tip . The angle of each of the surface faces allows the tip to contact the external connector element at an angle that is substantially normal to a surface of the tip even though the external connector element is centered between the electrical contacts and is thus offset from each. A second end of the second contact segment engages the spring element opposite the first segment .

The spring element is disposed within the sleeve and positioned intermediate the first contact segment and the second contact segment . The spring element biases the first segment and the second segment away from one another and towards the ends of the base such that the first segment is positioned to contact the external circuit element and the second segment is positioned to contact the contact element yet either segment may move inward as the spring element yields to pressure exerted on the segments . The spring element may be a compression spring as illustrated or other component configured to yieldably bias the segments away from one another. The spring element is preferably made of a conductive material such as metal and may be fixedly connected to both segments or may be free floating in the sleeve . The spring element may be free floating within the sleeve or may be fixed in position by for example adhering a portion of the spring element to the sleeve .

The electrical contacts are configured to provide an electrically conductive path between the tip of the first segment and the tip of the second contact segment . The conductive path may comprise the contact segments and and the spring element or may comprise the contact segments and and the sleeve . The conductive path may include both the sleeve and the and the spring element . The electrically conductive path is preserved regardless of the position of each of the segments and .

Because both segments of the electrical contact are configured to retract inward into the sleeve and extend outward from the sleeve during operation the contact assembly may engage and disengage external connector elements repeatedly with little or no damage thereto. This is due to the spring biased rather than friction fit functionality of the assembly . Furthermore the spring biased electrical contacts allow the entire contact assembly to shift relative to external elements while retaining electrical continuity between the segments .

Turning now to a connector constructed in accordance with embodiments of the invention is illustrated. The connector broadly includes a circuit board a housing mounted on the circuit board and a plurality of contact assemblies disposed in the housing . The circuit board includes a plurality of conductive circuit elements such as metal pads arranged in pairs and positioned to engage the electrical contacts of the contact assemblies . Each of the conductive circuit elements is part of a larger circuit as indicated by the conductive traces associated with the circuit elements . By way of example the larger circuit may include another connector or a test circuit such as a four wire sensing circuit.

The housing is fixed to the circuit board and includes a plurality of apertures each configured to receive and retain one of the contact assemblies . Each of the housing apertures is aligned with one of the pairs of circuit elements such that the electrical contacts of a contact assembly mounted therein engage the circuit elements . Each of the housing apertures generally corresponds to the size and shape of the contact assembly base but is somewhat larger to allow the base to shift within the aperture as explained below in greater detail. In the illustrated embodiment the housing includes ten apertures arranged in a row to receive ten contact assemblies . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the connector may include virtually any number of contact assemblies arranged in any of various patterns according to the requirements of the particular implementation without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. By way of example the contact assemblies may be arranged in multiple rows or in a circular pattern in the housing .

The housing is made of a rigid material and is fixedly secured to the circuit board . The housing may present an external shape configured to mate with an external connector such that one or more connector elements each engage one of the contact assemblies . The housing includes a pair of retention recesses associated with each aperture and configured to engage the retention tabs of the contact assembly positioned in the aperture .

As mentioned above each of the housing apertures is larger than the corresponding contact assembly positioned within the aperture such that the contact assembly can shift within the aperture to at least partially self align with the connector element if the element is not initially aligned with the through hole . Each of the housing apertures presents a cross section that is similar in shape to the oblong cross section of the contact assembly base but with a greater length and width. The length and width of the housing aperture cross section may each be between about 1 and about 50 greater than the corresponding length and width of the cross section of the base and more preferably may be between about 10 and about 40 greater. The cross section of the aperture may particularly be about 10 about 15 about 20 about 25 about 30 about 35 or about 40 larger than the cross section base .

The particular dimensions and proportions of the contact assembly and the connector may vary substantially from one embodiment of the invention to another without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore it will be understood that any discussion herein relating to particular dimensions or proportions of the contact assembly any of its components or the connector pertain to one or more exemplary embodiments and are not limiting in nature. In various exemplary embodiments of the invention each of the electrical contacts may be between 0.2 inches and 1.0 inches in length and may particularly be about 0.5 inches 0.6 inches or 0.7 inches long. The diameter of each of the electrical contacts is less than about 0.1 inches and may particularly be about 0.01 inches about 0.04 inches or about 0.07 inches. The electrical contacts are separated by a distance of less than about 0.2 inches and more particularly may be separated by a distance of less than about 0.15 inches. The separation distance between the electrical contacts may particularly be about 0.01 inches about 0.05 inches about 0.1 inches or about 0.12 inches.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that if the separation distance between the electrical contacts is too large the connector element may slide between the contacts . If the separation distance between the electrical contacts is too small the contacts may make physical contact with each other during use. In some embodiments about ten to forty percent of the diameter of the connector element is contacted by the electrical contacts .

The diameter of the through hole will typically correspond to the overall diameter of the contact element plus space for any allowable movement of the connector element in the assembly . The through hole thus constrains movement of the connector element and guides it to be approximately centered between the electrical contacts while allowing for some variance in the position of the connector element to accommodate for example a bent or misaligned connector element.

In some embodiments the diameter of the mouth may be approximately two to five times the diameter of the through hole and may be larger depending on the overall alignment characteristics of the assembly. More particularly the diameter of the mouth of the narrowing aperture may be within the range of from about 0.2 inches to about 0.6 inches and may particularly be about 0.3 inches about 0.4 inches or about 0.5 inches. The diameter of the through hole may be within the range of from about 0.05 inches to about 0.2 inches and may particularly be about 0.08 inches about 0.1 inches about 0.12 inches or about 0.15 inches. The separation distance between a center of each of the contact assemblies in the connector may be about 0.8 inches about 0.1 inches or about 0.12 inches.

The connector may be assembled by first placing a contact assembly in each of the housing apertures . Each contact assembly is inserted into the contact assembly through the bottom of the corresponding aperture the end of the aperture adjacent the circuit board in and sliding the assembly into the aperture until the retention tabs are seated in the retention recesses . With all of the contact assemblies in the housing the housing is mounted on the circuit board and secured in place using fasteners such as screws or an adhesive. As explained above the housing is positioned on the circuit board such that the electrical contacts of each of the contact assemblies engage a pair of circuit elements on the circuit board .

In operation an external connector may be coupled with the connector by physically mating a housing of the external connector with the housing by for example sliding the external connector housing into engagement with the housing . As the external connector moves into engagement with the connector a plurality of pins or other connector elements move into the narrowing apertures of the contact assemblies and into engagement with the electrical contacts of each of the contact assemblies . After the connector element makes initial contact with the electrical contacts further inward movement of the connector element causes the electrical contacts to compress by pushing the second segment of each of the electrical contacts inward against the spring element which yields to the inward pressure and urges the second segment outward against the connector element .

In the illustrated embodiment the connector is configured to mate with an external connector presenting a linear array of pins. It is common for one or more of the pins in such an array to be bent or otherwise out of position. The connector is especially adapted to accommodate such variations in pin position in that each of the contact assemblies is configured to make alignment corrections independently of the other contact assemblies.

Each contact assembly is operable to make alignment corrections in at least two ways as most clearly illustrated in . First the narrowing aperture of the contact assembly base guides a corresponding connector element in this case a conductive pin into alignment with the electrical contacts . A pin that is not properly aligned with the electrical contacts would be guided into the through hole by the narrowing aperture as the pin is forced into the contact assembly . Second the contact assembly is operable to shift within the housing and into alignment with the pin. Each contact assembly is retained in the respective housing aperture by the retention tabs which engage the retention recesses . The retention recesses as well as the entire housing aperture are somewhat larger than the contact assembly base such that the base can shift within the housing aperture . The contact assembly of is illustrated in a shifted position within the housing aperture . Each of the contact assemblies can shift in any lateral direction within the housing aperture . Both the narrowing aperture and the shifting function of the contact assemblies operate to correct alignment in any lateral direction that is forward backward left right or a combination thereof. In other words the second end of the assembly can move in any direction generally within a plane that is perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of each of the electrical contacts .

It should be noted that the contact assembly is not rigidly secured to the circuit board or the housing but is loosely held in place by the retention tabs . However movement of the contact assembly is sufficiently confined that the first segment of each of the electrical contacts is always align with the respective metal pad on the circuit board . The spring element biases the first segments outwardly and into contact with the circuit elements such that there is always an electrical connection between electrical contacts and the circuit elements regardless of the position of the contact assembly .

Although the invention has been described with reference to the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the attached drawings it is noted that equivalents may be employed and substitutions made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as recited in the claims. For example in some embodiments the sleeve may be entirely omitted from the assembly wherein the first segment second segment and spring element of each contact are configured to engage the walls of the boreholes . Furthermore the tip may present a chamfered outer surface as illustrated or may present a conical or similar shape.

