---

title: Embedded instrumentation architecture
abstract: The various technologies presented herein relate to generating copies of an incoming signal, wherein each copy of the signal can undergo different processing to facilitate control of bandwidth demands during communication of one or more signals relating to the incoming signal. A signal sharing component can be utilized to share copies of the incoming signal between a plurality of circuits/components which can include a first A/D converter, a second A/D converter, and a comparator component. The first A/D converter can operate at a low sampling rate and accordingly generates, and continuously transmits, a signal having a low bandwidth requirement. The second A/D converter can operate at a high sampling rate and hence generates a signal having a high bandwidth requirement. Transmission of a signal from the second A/D converter can be controlled by a signaling event (e.g., a signal pulse) being determined to have occurred by the comparator component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09148481&OS=09148481&RS=09148481
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09148481
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140904
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

In a conventional instrumentation system device wiring can cause sampling of a channel to be conducted in a particular manner. For example a single channel e.g. a first pin of an integrated circuit IC is typically connected to a first sensor that generates data that is indicative of an operational condition of a process. During operation of the process the data generated by the first sensor can undergo a slow transition between states e.g. a change in voltage as a function of temperature and or the information provided by the sensor e.g. temperature pressure velocity etc. is of minor importance with regard to operation of the process. Accordingly the first sensor may be connected via the single channel to a first analog to digital A D converter which is incorporated into the IC and is configured to sample the data generated by the first sensor at a relatively low rate. For example sampling of data output by the first sensor can be performed at every 2 milliseconds ms .

In another example a second pin of the IC may be connected to a second sensor whose readings provide critical information about the monitored process and accordingly a higher sampling rate is desired. The second sensor may be connected via the second input pin to a second A D converter that is incorporated into the IC and is configured to operate at a higher sampling rate when compared to the sampling rate of the first A D converter. Hence the data from the second A D converter requires greater communication bandwidth than the data generated by the first A D converter.

Accordingly during design of the instrumentation system a decision has to be made as to the importance of a sensor and the data generated by the sensor in relation to the process being monitored e.g. decide whether the sensor data is of low or high importance.

Further by uniquely associating a sensor with a particular A D converter while in a first operational state of the monitored system data generated by the sensor may be of low importance and a low sampling rate is acceptable. However the system may transition to another operating state whereby the data generated by the sensor may be critical in determining the operational state e.g. during forensic analysis real time operation etc. of the system and a high sampling rate is now required. The unique association of a first sensor with a low sample rate A D circuit and a unique association of a second sensor with a high sample rate A D circuit renders the designed system to operate in an fixed manner the deficiencies of which may require a system designer to always attach sensors to a high sampling rate A D converter to ensure that an acceptable sampling rate is available for every possible operating condition of a process and accordingly any sensor data associated therewith.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

The various technologies presented herein relate to construction and operation of an instrumentation system that can simultaneously review an analog signal in at least two different ways and accordingly facilitate control of one or more bandwidth requirements for transmitting one or more copies or replications of a signal over a communication network. A signal can be received at a signal sharing component whereby the signal can be received from a sensor or other signal generating device. In an embodiment the sensor can be monitoring one or more operating conditions pertaining to a process and or system.

The signal sharing component can generate one or more copies or replications of the incoming signal and forward the various copies to one or more components connected to the signal sharing component. In an embodiment the signal sharing component can be a demultiplexor or similar component configured to generate a plurality of replications of a received signal. In an embodiment the incoming signal and the one or more replications can be an analog signal.

A first copy of the incoming signal can be forwarded to a first A D converter. During conversion of the incoming analog signal to a digital signal the first A D converter can operate at a low sampling rate. In an embodiment owing to the low bandwidth requirement on a subsequent circuit e.g. a communication bus the output signal can be continuously transmitted by the first A D converter. In a further embodiment the digital signal can be subjected to processing on a chip that includes the A D converter or can be transmitted from the chip to another processing device via a communication bus.

A second copy of the incoming signal can also be provided to a second A D converter. Further a third copy of the incoming signal can be forwarded to a comparator. In an embodiment the first copy second copy and third copy can be synchronous in terms of timing to facilitate correlating an event detected by the comparator based on the third copy of the incoming signal with a correlating event detected based on the first copy and or the second copy. For example a pulse event occurring on the third copy is synchronous with the pulse also present on the first copy and the second copy.

The second A D converter can operate with a high sampling rate. To minimize the bandwidth demands placed on the communication bus transmission of a digitized signal formed from the second copy of the incoming signal can be controlled based on an importance of the digitized signal. For example during a pulse event occurring on the incoming signal to facilitate analysis and or understanding of the pulse event it may be desired that the digital signal generated by the second A D converter is transmitted over the communication bus. However when the incoming signal is in a low state e.g. no pulse event is occurring the high sample rate signal can be discarded by and or stored in a buffer by the second A D converter.

Initiating and curtailing transmission of the high sample rate signal from the second A D converter to the communication bus can be controlled in conjunction with signal thresholding determination being performed by the comparator component. In an embodiment the comparator can compare a magnitude of the third copy of the incoming signal with a threshold value. In an embodiment while the third copy of the incoming signal is determined by the comparator to be in a low level and or normal state e.g. an unexcited no signal transition state the comparator can generate a no event signal. In an embodiment the no event signal can be forwarded to the second A D converter and in response to receiving the no event signal the second A D converter can discard the high sample rate signal.

In another embodiment if a signaling event e.g. a pulse leading edge a pulse trailing edge etc. is determined to exist by the comparator component an event notification can be generated by the comparator and transmitted to the second A D converter. In response to receiving the event notification the second A D converter can initiate transmission of the high sample rate signal over the communication bus to facilitate analysis of the high rate signal by an analysis component connected to the communication bus.

In an embodiment the comparator can further detect the process from which the original signal is being derived returning to its low level state for example the signal magnitude returns to a value below the threshold value. Based thereon the comparator can generate and transmit a no event notification. In response to receiving the no event notification the second A D converter can stop transmission of the high sample rate signal over the communication bus with an according reduction in the bandwidth demand being placed upon the communication bus.

By only transmitting the high sample rate signal during a period at which an event is deemed to be occurring when no event is occurring the bandwidth requirements can be reduced.

In another embodiment the threshold value utilized by the comparator can be remotely configured e.g. via a user interface. Accordingly as a process transitions through a plurality of states the threshold value can be reconfigured to facilitate wanted and to alternatively prevent unwanted event detection regardless of a state of the process.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to a multiple channel acquisition system that facilitates simultaneous monitoring in accordance with a plurality of operational criteria are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects. Further it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

It is to be understood that a circuit component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

A signal can be generated by the sensor with the signal acting as an input signal which is input into a signal sharing component e.g. DEMUX as described further below . In an embodiment the input signal can be a voltage generated by the sensor . Furthermore in an embodiment input signal can be an analog signal being continuously generated by sensor during operation of process .

In the embodiment presented in the instrumentation system can act as an intermediary system for monitoring processing and or transmission of the incoming signal . The instrumentation system can be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC component which can be utilized for embedded instrumentation and data capture for one or more operational conditions of process . Instrumentation system can be configured to receive one input signal or a plurality of input signals with data capture operating in accordance with several different regimes where such regimes can include continuous data capture continuous data streaming event capture event streaming threshold capture threshold streaming any combination of the previously mentioned regimes and the like.

As shown in an input signal can be received on the input channel of a signal sharing component which can direct the input signal to a plurality of output channels or of the signal sharing component. In an embodiment the signal sharing component can be a demultiplexor DEMUX component . However it is to be appreciated that any suitable signal splitting and or signal spreading component can be utilized for the signal sharing component and the various embodiments presented herein are not limited to a DEMUX type component. For example the signal sharing component can be configured to generate copies or replications of the input signal whereby the copies and or replications can be forwarded to one or more components located on output channels or .

For the sake of readability the terms channel and pin can be used interchangeably herein whereby the reception and or transmission of a signal via a pin of an IC or a sub component thereof is included in the term channel as well as a signal being transmitted over a conductive track wire or trace.

On a first output channel of DEMUX a first sample A of the input signal is transmitted by the DEMUX . On a second output channel of DEMUX a second sample B of the input signal is transmitted by the DEMUX . On a third output channel a third sample C of the input signal is transmitted by the DEMUX . It is to be appreciated that while the terms first sample A second sample B and third sample C are used each of the signals A B and C are concurrently generated e.g. shared copied replicated by the DEMUX and thus in an embodiment any signal content of the first sample A is the same as a signal content of the second sample B and further either of the signal content of the first sample A and or the signal content of the second sample B is the same as a signal content of the third sample C and furthermore the signal content of the signal equals the signal content of the first sample A which equals the signal content of the second sample B which further equals the signal content of the third sample C. It is to be appreciated that the content of first sample A the content of second sample B and third sample C do not have to be exactly equivalent. For example any of the signal samples A B or C can undergo signal processing. For example the signal comprising sample C can undergo a degree of amplification to facilitate improving the likelihood of a comparator as further described below detecting an event e.g. a pulse in a signal while the signaling levels of signals A and B can remain at the same level as the content of signal . In an embodiment signal samples A B and C can undergo any signal processing to facilitate operation of the system such as controlling bandwidth demand e.g. on bus as described further herein .

In an embodiment the first output channel can be connected to a first analog to digital A D converter whereby A D converter can be configured to convert signal A having an analog format to a signal A e.g. a first converted signal having a digital format. For example signal A has an analog format comprising a continuous analog signal while signal A has a digital format comprising one or more instances of digital data. Further the output channel can be connected to a second A D converter to facilitate conversion of the signal B from an analog format to a signal B e.g. a second converted signal having a digital format. Signals A and B and further signal C as further described below can be transmitted from A D converter or or comparator as further described below to a communication architecture such as a bus whereby signal A can be forwarded on output channel signal B can be forwarded on output channel and signal C can be forwarded on output channel . Bus can be of any configuration to facilitate communication with the instrumentation system and an external component s interface s where in a non limiting list bus can be a fieldbus a local bus an external bus a serial bus a parallel bus and the like.

In an embodiment the A D converter can operate as a low speed A D converter and in another embodiment the A D converter can operate as a high speed A D converter i.e. the A D converter can operate at a higher sampling rate than the A D converter . In an exemplary embodiment the A D converter can be operating with a sampling rate of about 2 milliseconds ms while the A D converter can be operating with a sampling rate of about 5 megasamples per second MS s . Hence for an equivalent period of time e.g. 1 second a number of instances of digital data or samples in signal B is greater than a number of instances of digital data in signal A and hence for the equivalent period of time the signal B requires more communication bandwidth e.g. on bus than the signal A. As previously mentioned to conserve communication bandwidth on bus in an embodiment when process is operating under conditions which require minimal monitoring instrumentation system can operate with only data comprising signal A being transmitted on output channel . Alternatively when a greater understanding of how process is operating data comprising signal B can be transmitted on output channel . In another embodiment data comprising signal A can also be sent e.g. on output channel concurrently with signal B data e.g. on output channel during the period where greater understanding of how process is operating is required. By operating with the requirement to only utilize low bandwidth demand the various embodiments presented herein can be considered to facilitate a form of bandwidth compression on the bus .

In a further embodiment instrumentation system can further comprise a comparator whereby comparator can be a circuit configured to perform event detection. For example comparator can be a bi level comparator circuit which can transition in a binary manner 0 to 1 to 0 etc. As described further herein comparator can utilize a reference threshold value which can be utilized to determine whether signal C is below equal to above or within a particular range of the threshold value and accordingly a processing status of process can be identified and or inferred. When a signal transition is detected by comparator a transition signal C such as a 1 or a 0 can be forwarded by comparator on channel . Such a transition signal can be accompanied by other data such as a timestamp indicating when the transition occurred. Similarly signals A and B can include a packet header s a timestamp s etc. to facilitate understanding of when a particular instance of data in signal A or signal B was generated its position in a sequence of data etc.

In a further embodiment a transition signal D can be transmitted from comparator to a controller circuit to facilitate control of either A D converter or A D converter . For example upon receipt of a transition signal D indicating that process has gone into a state requiring a high level of monitoring e.g. transition signal D includes a value of 1 indicating an event has occurred controller circuit can initiate transmission of signal B from A D converter on output channel . Upon subsequent receipt of a transition signal D that indicates that process has returned to a state requiring low level monitoring e.g. transition signal D includes a value 0 controller circuit can cease transmission of the signal D on the output channel of A D converter .

Based upon an operational configuration of any of A D converter A D converter controller circuit and or comparator as mentioned previously various signaling regimes can occur on outputs or . For example a signal A can be continuously transmitted out from A D converter on output as the sampling rate of A D converter is of a low magnitude with an according minimal bandwidth burden being generated at output . However owing to the bandwidth burden imposed by the higher sampling rate data B of A D converter it is desired that signaling B only occurs on output when the process is deemed to be in an event state or high monitor mode and event capture and streaming regimes can be initiated. The determination of an event occurring can be a simple determination of whether the magnitude of signal C equals exceeds is within a percentage of etc. the threshold value as previously described. Other methods known to those in the art for determining an event state are also possible and considered to be within the scope of the various embodiments presented herein. It is to be appreciated that while the various embodiments presented herein relate to one or more situations where a signal transitions from a low level no event state to a high level event state the various embodiments are not so limited and other transitions can be utilized. For example a signal transition to be determined is a drop from a no event state having a high magnitude e.g. a high voltage to an event state having a low magnitude e.g. a low voltage .

As previously mentioned it is to be appreciated that the signal can be continuously received replicated and directed by DEMUX and accordingly analog to digital signal conversion can be continuously occurring at A D converter e.g. signal A converted to signal A and A D converter e.g. signal B converted to signal B along with continual analysis of signal C being performed by comparator . To prevent unwanted bandwidth burden occurring any of output signals A B or C can be discarded at the source. For example if the process is operating in a condition such that high sampling rate signals B are not required from A D converter any signaling generated at A D converter can be discarded e.g. per controller circuit and thus not transmitted over output channel .

As previously mentioned the comparator can be configured to detect a change in a state of sensor and accordingly process based upon for example a threshold value . For example a signal C being carried on channel can be a voltage e.g. sensor is a thermocouple and comparator can be configured such that if the voltage of signal C becomes greater than e.g. crosses a reference threshold applied to comparator the comparator can flip its operational state e.g. transition from binary state 0 to binary state 1 . Accordingly in an embodiment a configuration component can be utilized to program the comparator with a threshold value with the threshold value being stored local on comparator e.g. in a local memory not shown . Hence rather than having comparator operating with a fixed threshold value utilizing a configuration component enables a flexible approach to signal magnitude determination that is not available with a conventional system. It is to be appreciated that while the configuration component is illustrated in as being located local to comparator the various embodiments are not so limited and in an alternative embodiment configuration component can be located remote from the comparator and accordingly in communication with comparator via bus .

As previously mentioned to prevent unwanted bandwidth burden occurring any of output signals A B or C can be discarded at the source e.g. signals B can be discarded at the A D converter and not transmitted on channel . In another embodiment a memory component such as a memory buffer can be incorporated into system . When an event is detected by comparator data comprising signal B can be forwarded to the bus . However there may be a delay or lag between an event being detected at the comparator and the initiation of forwarding signal B per controller circuit . Hence rather than discarding any signal B generated by the A D converter prior to the detection of the event a most recent portion of signal B can be stored in the memory buffer whereby the most recent portion of signal B can be subsequently replaced by the next most recent portion of signal B e.g. to maintain a constant amount of the most recent data comprising signal B. When an event is determined at the comparator rather than simply transmitting the next received data converted by A D converter to compensate for the lag between the event determination and the transmission of the next generated data in signal B the various data stored in memory buffer can also be forwarded to the bus thereby provisioning data generated both pre event and post event occurrence to be forwarded on the bus to facilitate possible improved analysis and or determination of what may have caused the transition in operation of process at the time the event was detected at comparator .

In another embodiment configuration component can be utilized to adjust a sampling frequency of either of the A D converter and or A D converter . For example A D converter in a first sampling condition can operate with a sampling rate of about 5 MS s while in a second sampling condition it is desirable that the A D converter operate with a sampling rate of about 10 MS s. The configuration component can be utilized to configure the A D converter and or the A D converter to any desired sampling rate.

In a further embodiment configuration component can include a sampling frequency database which in a further embodiment can include a sampling schedule. As a process undergoes various stages of execution the configuration component can in conjunction with timings in the sampling frequency database automatically transmit a sampling rate to either of A D converter and or the A D converter . Hence after a process has been in operation for a particular duration and a particular sampling rate at commencement of subsequent duration as identified by a time in the sampling frequency database a new sampling rate can be generated and transmitted to automatically configure either of A D converter and or the A D converter .

Turning to to provide an exemplary context of operation for the various components comprising system signal is presented in conjunction with various states and or conditions based upon a magnitude of the signal . As previously mentioned system has the ability to monitor slow events as well as identifying fast events which for example may occur unexpectedly. For instance it may be known that process may include a pulse event that is of a fixed duration e.g. of 200 microseconds duration. Rather than having to continuously sample signal at a high speed per operation of a conventional system the comparator can be utilized to detect a change in the magnitude of a signal.

For example as shown in at a time A signal has a low magnitude e.g. is below threshold value for which comparator outputs an event value of 0 and in accordance therewith A D converter is in an ON state and a signal A is transmitted on output . Owing to the event value being 0 or no event a transmission setting of A D converter is set to OFF e.g. by controller circuit and signal B is not transmitted on channel e.g. signal B can be discarded or stored in buffer .

At a time B the magnitude of signal is determined by the comparator to have increased above the threshold value e.g. the rise of a leading edge of a pulse has been detected. Based thereon comparator outputs an event value of 1 or event and in accordance therewith A D converter remains in an ON state. Further A D converter also transitions to an ON state e.g. per controller circuit and the high sample rate signal B can be forwarded from the A D converter to the bus .

At a time C the magnitude of signal drops below threshold value and a trailing edge of the pulse has been detected. Based thereon comparator outputs an event value of 0 or no event and in accordance therewith A D converter remains in an ON state. Further A D converter transitions to an OFF state e.g. per controller circuit and transmission of the high sample rate signal B can be curtailed e.g. subsequently discarded directed to a memory buffer etc. .

With reference to it is to be appreciated that while three components e.g. A D converter A D converter and comparator are shown connected to the DEMUX a greater or lesser number of components can connected to DEMUX . For example an arrangement can be configured whereby a single A D converter e.g. either of A D converter or A D converter is connected to DEMUX in conjunction with a comparator . In such an embodiment the comparator can perform the previously described signal analysis and when the signal C includes an event e.g. a pulse leading edge a pulse trailing edge etc. a notification D can be transmitted to controller circuit indicating an event has been detected. Upon receiving the notification controller circuit can operate to initiate transmission of data pulses e.g. signal B from the A D converter e.g. A D converter to the bus . In response to receiving an indication from the comparator that the event has ceased e.g. the pulse has ended the A D converter can stop transmission of the data pulses to the bus e.g. per operation of the controller circuit . With such a configuration data transmission on the bus can be controlled such that bandwidth on the bus is only consumed during an event occurring.

Referring to in a further embodiment configuration component can be utilized to override a setting applied to any of the A D converter the A D converter or the comparator . For example configuration component can transmit a command to A D converter e.g. via controller circuit to pause transmission of signal B on output channel even though the A D converter has been instructed to transmit the signal B based upon an event notification generated by comparator . In another example a transmit command can be forwarded from configuration component e.g. via controller circuit to initiate transmission of signal B by A D converter even though a no event command has been forwarded to the A D converter .

It is to be appreciated that while only a single input channel and three channels and are illustrated in for system and DEMUX any number of input channels and output channels can be utilized. For example N output channels can be configured where N is a positive integer whereby an output channel in the N output channels can be connected to any of an A D converter a comparator component a signal processing component etc. Hence a first input channel can be connected directly to an A D converter and accordingly samples and or converts an incoming signal on the first input channel. Further a second input channel can be connected to a signal sharing component e.g. DEMUX which is further connected to a first A D converter a second A D converter and a comparator an arrangement as shown in . Furthermore a third input channel can be connected to a signal sharing component e.g. another DEMUX which is further connected to another A D converter and another comparator component whereby no event and event notifications generated by the another comparator can control operation of the another A D converter.

As further shown in while system has been described with signal being an input to DEMUX via input channel in an alternative embodiment sensor can be connected directly to an input channel of comparator . As shown by the dashed line a signal can be inputted to comparator and accordingly can bypass DEMUX . Signal can be processed at comparator in the same manner as signal C as previously described. It is to further be appreciated that while input channel is shown to originate from input channel the various embodiments presented herein are not so limited. For example in another embodiment the input channel can be connected directly to sensor with signal obtained at comparator in parallel with signal input at DEMUX .

It is to be further appreciated that signal can be received at the comparator concurrent with any of signal arriving at DEMUX and or signals A and or B respectively arriving at A D converter or A D converter . In an embodiment the concurrent reception can facilitate simultaneous processing of respective signals A B and or . For example generation of one or more of signals A and or B by DEMUX may result in a slight delay between equivalent data e.g. simultaneous or concurrent data being generated in signal A and or signal B and the data conveyed in signal e.g. presence of a corresponding signal spike present in all of signals A B and or . In an embodiment owing to signal not undergoing any delay a data spike in signal may arrive at comparator prior to an equivalent data spike arriving at either of A D converter e.g. in signal A and or A D converter e.g. in signal B . Accordingly advantage can be taken of the prior arrival of the data spike in signal to facilitate processing of data in signal e.g. comparison with threshold value at a time instant prior to the equivalent data spike in signal B arriving at A D converter . Hence operation of A D converter can be switched to transmit signal B e.g. by controller to facilitate the equivalent data spike in signal B being converted to a digital signal B without any delay e.g. no buffering occurs at buffer memory and subsequently transmitted in output channel .

At a first output channel of the signal sharing component can be connected to a first A D converter component.

At a second output channel of the signal sharing component can be connected to a second A D converter component.

At a third output channel of the signal sharing component can be connected to a comparator component.

At a controller circuit can be connected to the comparator and at least one of the first A D converter and the second A D converter. In an embodiment the controller circuit can operate in conjunction with determinations made by the comparator component and accordingly can control transmission of data from at least one of the first A D converter or the second A D converter.

As previously mentioned it is to be appreciated that the signal sharing component the first A D converter the second A D converter and the comparator can be incorporated into a single ASIC component. Hence while a single signal source can be connected to a single input pin of the ASIC component owing to the sharing of the signal across a plurality of components incorporated into the ASIC component a plurality of signals can be transmitted from the ASIC component e.g. from a plurality of output pins of the ASIC based upon the single signal input.

Turning to illustrates an exemplary methodology relating to controlling signal transmission to facilitate control of communication bandwidth requirements of a signal processing component. At a signal can be received at a signal sharing component and in response to receiving the signal the signal sharing component can transmit a first signal on a first output of the signal sharing component a second signal on a second output of the signal sharing component and a third signal on a third output of the signal sharing component. As previously described the signal sharing component can be configured such that the first signal the second signal and the third signal contain the same signal information and can be considered to be replications of the received signal e.g. received from a sensor connected to the signal sharing component .

At at a first A D converter the first signal can be received and in response to receiving the first signal the first signal can be converted e.g. from an analog format to a first output signal e.g. having a digital format aka a first digital sample signal . The first output signal can be transmitted via an output channel of the first A D converter to an external circuit for example a communication bus.

At at a second A D converter the second signal can be received and in response to receiving the second signal the second signal can be converted e.g. from an analog format to a second output signal e.g. having a digital format aka a second digital sample signal . As previously described the second signal can be a continuous analog waveform while the second output signal can comprise of at least one instance of data generated by the first A D converter from the input signal.

At in response to the comparator determining that the magnitude of the third signal is not greater than the threshold value at a notification can be forwarded to the second A D converter indicating that no event has occurred. As previously described the second A D converter can operate in conjunction with a controller circuit and accordingly transmission of data from the second A D converter on an output channel can be controlled by the controller circuit.

At at the second A D converter in response to receiving the no event notification e.g. via the controller circuit the second output signal can be discarded by the second A D converter. As mentioned previously rather than discarding the second output signal the second output signal can be forwarded to a buffer memory to facilitate storage of the second output signal either on a temporary or an extended time period basis. The methodology returns to for the next signal to be received.

Returning to in response to the comparator determining that the magnitude of the third signal is greater than the threshold value at a notification can be forwarded to the second A D converter e.g. in accordance with operation of the controller circuit indicating that an event has occurred.

At at the second A D converter e.g. in conjunction with the controller circuit in response to receiving the event notification the second A D converter can be configured to transmit the second output signal on an output channel of the second A D converter. The output channel of the second A D converter can be connected to the same external circuit or a different circuit to that which the first A D converter transmits the first output signal. The methodology returns to for the next signal to be received.

As previously described the first signal can be a continuous analog waveform while the first output signal and or the second output signal can comprise of at least one digital data generated respectively by the first A D converter or the second A D converter from the input signal whereby the first output signal and or the second output signal can have a digital format. Each at least one digital data in the first output signal and or the second output signal can include any information required to identify a source of the at least one digital data a time of generation cyclic redundancy checking etc.

At in response to receiving the threshold value setting a threshold value can be configured based upon the received threshold value setting. In an embodiment the threshold value can be stored locally at the comparator e.g. in a local memory . In an aspect where the threshold value setting is an initial setting for the threshold value the threshold value can be set to the threshold value setting. In an alternative aspect a current setting for the threshold value can be updated with the received threshold value setting. By receiving a threshold value setting and subsequently updating a threshold value with the threshold value setting the threshold value can effectively be updated in an on the fly reconfiguration.

At a signal can be received at the comparator component. As previously described the signal can be received from a signal sharing component that concurrently sends a replication of the signal to at least one other circuit or component e.g. a signal processing circuit component such as an A D converter . In an embodiment the received signal can be an analog signal.

At in response to the comparator determining that the magnitude of the received signal is not greater than the threshold value at a notification can be transmitted indicating that no event has occurred. The methodology can return to for the next received signal to be compared with the threshold value.

At in response to the comparator determining that the magnitude of the received signal is not greater than the threshold value at a notification can be transmitted indicating that an event has occurred. The methodology can return to for the next received signal to be compared with the threshold value.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

