---

title: Remote control systems and methods for providing page commands to digital electronic display devices
abstract: A remote control system, set forth by way of example and not limitation, includes a remote control device including one or more controls operative to develop at button control signals in response to activation by a user. An interface device is responsive to the button control signals and is operative to provide device control signals via a wired connection to an electronic display device. The device control signals are operative to control an application running on an electronic display device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09275541&OS=09275541&RS=09275541
owner: ALPHA AND OMEGA, INC.
number: 09275541
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140218
---
This application is continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 159 205 filed Jun. 13 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 654 074 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 830 274 filed Jul. 2 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 405 606 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Computerization and the advent of flat panel displays have resulted in a proliferation of digital electronic display devices ranging from plasma televisions to cellular telephones. One particularly fast growing segment of the digital electronic display market are devices designed to display e books i.e. books that are distributed in electronic form. E books also include by way of non limiting examples non traditional books comprising documents and collections of printable pages such as handwritten documents notated music e.g. sheet music chord charts fake music lead sheets court documents dissertations theses journals periodicals magazine lab notebooks and photographs to name a few.

E books are usually read on dedicated digital electronic display devices commonly known as e book readers although they are increasingly being read on other types of electronic display devices such as computer displays laptop computers tablet computers personal digital assistants PDAs and cellular telephones.

Dedicated e book readers are often based upon electronic paper displays. Electronic Paper also known as e paper or electronic ink is a display technology designed to mimic the appearance of ordinary ink on paper. Unlike a conventional flat panel computer display which uses a backlight to illuminate its pixels electronic paper reflects light like ordinary paper. Furthermore electronic paper is sometimes capable of displaying text and images indefinitely without drawing electricity.

Examples of e book readers include the Amazon Kindle the Sony PRS 700 and the Barnes Noble Nook . Some e book readers such as the Amazon Kindle use mechanical buttons to navigate to and through an e book which other e book readers such as the Sony PRS 700 use touch screen display technology. The Barnes Noble Nook is a hybrid device including an electronic paper screen mechanical buttons and a small color touch screen display.

It should be noted that references to the Amazon Kindle refer to a dedicated hardware c book reader marketed by Amazon Inc. Amazon also provides Amazon Kindle software which runs on a variety of platforms such as computers cell phones and tablet computers which will be referred to herein as Kindle Application Programs. 

The introduction of the iPad tablet computer by Apple Inc. has generated new interest and has heightened competition in the e book market. The iPad has a full color touch screen display and therefore has the benefits and disadvantages of backlit flat panel computer displays. The iPad uses its touch screen for c book navigation. The iPad is provided with e book reader software and can also for example run Kindle Application Programs for the purpose of buying and reading e books sold and or delivered wirelessly by Amazon.

E book readers are generally intended to be handheld devices and are controlled by pressing a button either mechanical or virtual or by making gestures with a finger on a touch screen display. However there are times when it would be desirable to be able to control a digital electronic display device such as an e book reader without actually touching the device. For example a musician might desire to use an e book reader to display sheet music and would not have a hand free for turning the pages of the e book. As another example a person engaging in a physical activity such as running on a treadmill may wish use an e book reader that is propped up and out of convenient reach. Furthermore handicapped persons may be physically incapable of using their hands to hold and or control an e book reader.

With respect to the last example set forth above there have been devices made for the handicapped to aid in the reading of ordinary books. For example Zygo Industries Inc. markets a manual page turner for conventional books which allows a handicapped person to use a joystick to turn pages forward and backward one at a time or continuously e.g. when scanning a chapter or a directory . However manual page turners of the prior art are unsuitable for use with e book readers and other forms of digital electronic display devices.

These and other limitations of the prior art will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon a reading of the following descriptions and a study of the several figures of the drawing.

A remote control system set forth by way of example and not limitation includes a remote control device including one or more controls operative to develop at button control signals in response to activation by a user. An interface device is responsive to the button control signals and is operative to provide device control signals via a wired connection to an electronic display device. The device control signals are operative to control an application running on an electronic display device. In some embodiments the application displays an image such as a document page on a display of the electronic display device and the device control signals are operative to control the display of the image.

In another remote control system set forth by way of example and not limitation at least one control is operative to develop at least one activation signal in response to activation by a user. Logic circuitry coupled to the at least one control is operative to receive the at least one activation signal and includes a wireless transmitter operative to transmit at least one device control signal wirelessly to an electronic display device responsive to the at least one device control signal. The device control signal is operative to control an application running on the electronic display device to change a display of a document displayed by the application on the electronic display device. In some embodiments the change of the display of the document can include displaying a different page of a displayed document in response to the at least one activation signal.

A method for remotely controlling an electronic display device set forth by way of example and not limitation includes providing a button control signal from a remote control device in response to a control on the remote control device being activated by a user. The method further includes receiving said button control signal at an interface device decoding said button control signal using a digital processor to derive a device control signal and providing the device control signal to an electronic display device the at least one device control signal operative to control an application running on an electronic display device.

These and other combinations and advantages and other features disclosed herein will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon a reading of the following descriptions and a study of the several figures of the drawing.

As used herein a digital electronic display device electronic display device display device or the like will refer to any digital electronic device having a screen or display with addressable pixels. Non limiting examples of digital electronic display devices include e book readers desk computers laptop computers netbook computers table computers personal digital assistants PDSs and cellular telephones. The vast majority of current digital electronic display devices use flat panel displays based upon a variety of technologies including volatile display technologies such as light emitting diode display LED liquid crystal display LCD and plasma display technologies and static display technologies such as electronic paper.

Digital electronic display devices typically include a number of buttons to control their functionality. These buttons can be of various technologies including mechanical buttons capacitively coupled buttons touch screen buttons etc. As used herein a button associated with a digital electronic display device will include any real e.g. mechanical or capacitive or virtual e.g. a button image or the like on a touch screen button which when pressed signals the digital electronic display device to perform some function or act. By press or activated it is meant that the button real or virtual is capable of being engaged by for example by a finger or a stylus although buttons can be pressed or activated in other fashions as well. Furthermore press or activation can also include gesturing e.g. such as an engagement with a touch screen display and subsequent movement in contact with the screen.

Digital electronic display devices are becoming increasingly small and portable. Often they are meant to be handheld devices. The buttons on such displays may be mechanical such as on the Kindle e book reader or virtual on a touch screen display such as on the iPad tablet computer . Still other digital electronic display devices include both real and virtual buttons.

Button activator is often closely associated with digital electronic display device . In some cases button activator is mechanically engaged with digital electronic display device i.e. the interface is mechanical. In other cases button activator may be a part of the digital electronic display device or be physically separated from the digital electronic display device .

Remote control device is generally physically separated from the digital electronic display device . In some cases remote control device is physically separated from button activator . In other cases button activator may be a part of the remote control device . Remote control device can be used to develop button control signals. By way of example and not limitation remote control can develop page turn signals for an e book device such as Page Forward and Page Back signals.

In the following descriptions remote control system will be discussed with reference to the specific examples such as the Kindle DX e book reader provided by Amazon Inc. and the iPad tablet computer provided by Apple Inc. These examples are not to be seen as limiting but rather illustrative of the general concepts set forth herein.

In the cover has been removed as indicated by the broken line to expose some of the internal components of button activator . The button activator includes a controller zone an actuator zone and a power supply zone . The controller zone includes a circuit board a control button and an LED indicator . The circuit board by way of non limiting example can include a transceiver or receiver which can be paired or otherwise communicate with a transceiver or transmitter of a remote control device. The circuit board may also include control logic for the actuators in the actuator zone. The actuator zone includes a first actuator coupled to a first motor and a second actuator coupled to a second motor . The actuators and are aligned with first and second mechanical switches respectively of the e book reader . In this example the first and second mechanical switches of the e book reader are the Page Forward and Page Back buttons. The power supply zone in this example includes batteries . In other embodiments a power supply may be used to power the button activator .

The examples of provide a wrap around cover which protects an e book reader while providing mechanical button pushing capabilities. Other examples may not include a wrap around cover and or may not mechanically activate buttons of an e book reader. For example a button actuator can be clamped glued or otherwise directly attached to an e book reader without the need for a cover. Also there are many other examples of wrap around covers which can be used for e book readers including alternate physical and non physical e book interfacing configurations.

In the example of remote control device includes a lower casing an upper casing a keychain aperture a pair of buttons and and an indicator LED . In this example the buttons and are shaped as arrowheads to indicate a forward page turn and a back page turn.

The example remote control device may also include other inputs not shown such a 3.5 mm jack to receive alternate switch closures or other forms of electrical signals from a user selected unit. These alternate switch closures may replace or augment for example switches and . For example the aforementioned jack or other input port can be used to allow a standardized interface such as electric foot pedal used by musicians to provide electrical inputs to the remote control device . By way of further example there are a number of standardized interfaces designed for those with disabilities which can also benefit by being coupled to the remote control device .

The radio module may be configured to operate using for example the IEEE 802.15.4 protocol. The IEEE 802.15.4 protocol is a standard which specifies the physical layer and media access control for low rate wireless personal area networks LR WPANs . A typical range for this protocol is about 30 feet and the transfer rate is about 250 Kbits sec. Lower bit rates can be selected with a corresponding reduction in power consumption. The IEEE 802.15.4 protocol allows for a low cost low power consumption master slave communication link between remote control device and button activator see with built in retry and collision avoidance protocols.

Preferably each remote control device will have a unique identifier typically 64 bits in accordance with the IEEE 802.15.4 specification. The unique identifier may be stored in EEPROM and can be loaded into the radio module by the microcontroller upon power up. This will allow a remote control device to be uniquely paired with a corresponding button activator . In other examples a remote control device may be paired with multiple slave units for for example musical applications. The EEPROM can be programmed through a port at for example the time of production. As another non limiting example the EEPROM can be user programmable.

If operation does detects a push of button or both an operation determines whether both buttons have been pushed indicating that the remote control device is to enter a pairing mode in this example. If both buttons have been pressed the remote control device is paired with button activator and LED is flashed appropriately in an operation . Operational control is then returned to operation .

If operation detects the push of only one button an operation determines which button has been pushed. If the forward button has been pushed the radio module is caused to transmit a Page Forward signal in an operation with the LED being flashed appropriately. If the back button has been pushed the radio module is caused to transmit a Page Back signal in an operation with the LED being flashed appropriately. After transmitting either signal the process waits as indicated at and then process control is returned to operation .

The radio module in this example is also configured to operate with the IEEE 482.15.4 protocol. Preferably each button activator will have a unique identifier typically 64 bits . The unique identifier may be stored in EEPROM and can be loaded into the radio module by the microcontroller upon power up. This will allow a button activator to be uniquely paired as a slave with a corresponding master remote control unit . The EEPROM can be programmed through a port at for example the time of production.

If operation does not detect a pressing of button operation determines whether a packet addressed for the button activator has been received. If not the button activator enters a low power mode in an operation and then a wait mode in operation before returning to operation .

If operation determines that an appropriate packet has been received an operation determines which button is to be pressed. If the Page Forward button is to be pressed a press button operation is activated. If the Page Back button is to be pressed a press button operation is pressed. Operational control is then given to operation .

If a button press of button was detected in operation it is determined whether the button activator is in a sleep mode in an operation . If it is not in a sleep mode an operation puts the button activator into a sleep mode to await another button press in operation . If operation determines that the button activator is currently in a sleep mode it is woke up in a wake up operation . An operation then determines if the button activator is to be paired. If so the button activator is paired with the remote control device in an operation and process control is returned to operation . If the button activator is not to be paired operational control is returned to operation .

In another example button push back from an e book reader button can be used to eliminate the need to reverse the motor as described above. That is in many cases the button on an e book reader is spring loaded to return itself to its un pressed or neutral position. With such examples the operations and may be skipped or eliminated.

In the examples set forth above and in other examples it may be preferable to keep the circuit designs for the remote control device and the button activator as similar as possible. For example the same microcontrollers and radio modules can be used to allow a sharing of the firmware stored in their EEPROMS. Suitable microcontrollers include the PIC18F25K20T I SS processor and suitable radio modules include the MRF24J40MA I RM RF module both available from Microchip Inc. A suitable motor driver is the MPC17531A motor driver available from Freescale Inc. Of course there are many substitutes and equivalents for the components described above. For example the microcontroller can be replaced with other technologies including microprocessors state machines discrete logic and other forms of digital processors.

Since both the remote control device and the button activator in the examples set forth above are battery powered preferred embodiments include power management and power level indications. Remote control device can be powered by for example a 20 mm 3.2 mm coin battery model CR2032 which has a 22 mAh capacity. Button activator can be powered for example by two AAA batteries.

By way of further examples when the battery on the remote control device is at an acceptable level the LED can be flashed slowly during radio communication. When a low battery power level is detected the LED can be fluttered e.g. blinked rapidly. Similarly when battery power is at an acceptable level in the button activator the LED may be flashed slowly to show that it is powered and listening for a packet from its paired remote control device . If a low battery level is detected the LED can be caused to flutter. In other examples fewer or no LEDs can be used or more LEDs can be used to provide feedback to a user. Multiple outputs can be displayed on a single LED with for example software controlled OR wired processes. In still further non limiting examples other display technologies including audio visual and tactile display can be used.

Besides indicating battery power levels preferred embodiments may employ power management techniques to reduce power consumption whenever possible. Since radio communications are a major source of power consumption the radio modules a preferably put into a sleep mode on a regular basis and the microcontroller should be put into a low power idle mode when not being used. By way of example the radio modules described above can be programmed to wake up the radio module and then the microcontroller after a programmable time period.

The motor controller described above also has an analog to digital A D channel which can be used to periodically monitor the battery voltage. This can be used to alert the user of low battery conditions. Preferably the motor controller also has the capability of entering deep sleep to conserve battery life.

As noted previously the remote control system in the described examples may implement the IEEE 802.15.4 radio communication protocols with the remote control device being the master and the button activator being the slave. In other examples other protocols and other relationships may be implemented. In the current example the remote control device initiates all communications and the button activator listens for command packets from the remote control device and will only respond when addressed directly by its paired remote or to a pairing request broadcast by the remote control device when the button actuator is in a paring mode.

The button activator or slave device in this example will listen during a 20 millisecond window every 200 milliseconds. After the 20 millisecond communication window the radio and microcontroller will enter low power modes. This power management technique reduces the slave radio power consumption to approximately 10 of that consumed by continuous operation.

The remote control device or master device in the example will only transmit when a user presses its buttons. Otherwise its radio module and microcontroller will be in low power modes. When a button is pressed the master device will transmit a series of 3 command packets every 5 milliseconds until the slave device responds with an ACK or 200 milliseconds expire. Therefore the radio module of the master can operate either as a transmitter or a transceiver it being understood that a transmitter is a subset of a transceiver. Likewise the radio module of the slave can operate as either a receiver or as a transceiver it being understood that a receiver is a subset of a transceiver.

Preferably the remote control device only transmits once every second. If a user presses buttons more than once per second they may be queued for transmission at a rate of once per second. These power management techniques on the remote control device reduce power consumption to 20 of continuous operation power consumption.

The motor controller described above is capable of driving two direct current DC motors. Only one of the motors should be run at a time. When a command is received to cycle a button on a digital electronic display device the microcontroller will drive the appropriate motor forwardly while monitoring the motor current as was described with respect to . When the current exceeds a predetermined limit e.g. a stall current of 200 300 mA the microcontroller will back off the motor and then drive it in reverse until the stall current is detected in the other direction. Preferably the radio module is in a low power mode while the motor is driven.

By way of example the microcontroller of the button activator may use software generated pulse width modulation PWM waveforms when driving the motors both for the purpose of power savings and also to ramp up the motor speed to extend the life of the motors. A PWM of approximately 100 kHz may be desirable for smooth motor operation. The full speed PWM may have a 50 or greater duty cycle.

To produce the desired PWM the microcontroller of the button activator may be operated at 16 MHz to produce the PWM waveform and to interleave instructions to read the A D channel to monitor battery voltage. The A D channel is preferably configured for continuous operation using a programmable timer such that the firmware needs only to monitor the results registers once the A D is started. In alternate examples a hardware PWM may be employed.

In the example above when the two buttons on the remote control device are pressed simultaneously for a period of time e.g. 4 seconds the remote control device is put into a pairing mode. On the other hand when the button on the button activator is pressed for a period of time e.g. 5 seconds the button activator enters a deep sleep mode as was described with respect in . Pressing the button on the button activator when it is in deep sleep for a period of time e.g. 2 seconds will wake it from the deep sleep. If the button is continued to be held for a longer period of time e.g. 5 seconds the button activator enters the pairing mode.

During pairing only the remote control device and the button activator should be in pairing mode within the range of their radio modules. The remote control device periodically sends out a pairing request packet. When the button activator receives the pairing request packet it will transmit a pairing response packet. When the remote control device receives the pairing response packet it will send a second pairing request packet directly to the button activator not broadcast . Once the button activator receives the pairing request packet with its address it is paired with the remote control device and stores the address of the remote control device in its EEPROM overwriting any previously stored address.

In the foregoing examples rotary DC motors were employed due to price and power considerations. However as used herein the term motor includes any electromechanical transducer including linear solenoids rotary solenoids piezoelectric motors muscle wire nitinol memory wire etc.

As noted above the interface between a button activator and an electronic display device may be mechanical hardwired wireless networked or integrated by way of non limiting examples. As a further example of a hardwired interface of is an interface through an input output I O port of an e book reader. For example the Apple iPad iPhone iPhone OS or iOS devices which can serve as e book readers include a docking port along a bottom edge. In an embodiment logic is provided which provides control signals to an iPhone OS device via its docking port. This may be facilitated by way of non limiting example by interfacing with an Apple NSNotification object which is a form of notification dispatch table using Apple s EAAccessory Framework API.

With the non limiting example set forth above a forward button pressed on for example remote control device may cause a receiving circuit to develop a packet for the iPhone OS device docking port with a control command or signal e.g. 

Continuing with this non limiting example a reverse or backward button pressed on for example remote control device may a receiving circuit to develop a packet for the iPhone OS device docking port with a control command or signal e.g. 

An advantage of using an electronic interface between a button activator B and an electronic display device B of is that electromechanical components such as motors or other actuators can be eliminated resulting in lower costs lower power consumption and less wear on the button activator. It will further be appreciated that the buttons of the iPhone OS device are activated in this example without ever being physically pressed.

In operation the carriage can be positioned over a virtual button on touch screen such as a virtual button labeled SEND or over a mechanical button such as button by moving the carriage in the X and or Y directions. A button press can be effectuated by moving the carriage in the X and Y directions when it is in its neutral position until it is aligned with the button and then moving the button in the Z direction to press the button.

It should be noted that the button activator can also make gestures on the on the touch screen by moving the carriage in X and or Y directions while it is still engaged with the touch screen . More complex gestures can be made by providing additional independently controllable carriages.

Remote control or remote FOB is used as the remote control device to send commands to the electronic display device . Remote control can be any portable electronic device capable of transmitting one or more signals. In the described embodiment the remote control transmits signals wirelessly. For example the signals can be transmitted as RF signals from an RF transmitter in the remote control . In one embodiment the remote control can include two buttons where a first button causes a first page turn signal to be transmitted and intended to be interpreted as a Page Forward command and a second button causes a second page turn signal to be transmitted and interpreted as a Page Back command. Another embodiment can provide only a Page Forward turn signal. In some embodiments additional buttons and signals can be provided for additional page commands for the electronic display device such as to display the first page at the start of a displayed document to display the last page of a document to display a page at a next chapter or user defined bookmark to access a particular page or document or page function of an application or the display device etc. Remote control can be implemented as a variety of devices as described above with respect to . In other embodiments the remote control can transmit signals over a hardwired interface to the interface assembly as described above with respect to .

An interface assembly is a device used to interface the remote control with the electronic display device and can be a button activator as described in embodiments above. In this described embodiment assembly includes a receiver block and an I O block . Other embodiments can provide the receiver block and I O block as integrated in a single block or divided into additional components as desired.

Receiver block includes an RF receiver capable of receiving RF signals from the remote control . Circuitry is also included to generate signals based on the received RF button control signals and these generated signals can be provided to the I O block to indicate that button control signals from the remote control have been detected. In some embodiments the receiver block is connected to one or more batteries or other power source.

I O block is used to receive the signals that were generated by the receiver block in response to receiving transmitted button control signals from the remote control . I O block interprets the signals provided by the receiver block and generates device control signals appropriate for the electronic display device sending these device control signals to the device via a wired interface . In other embodiments as indicated above for a wireless interface can be used between I O block and the device . The I O block can be implemented as a electronic circuit board receiving the signals from the receiver block on wire connections or other interface and generating appropriate device control signals for the device . Some embodiments of the I O block are described in greater detail below with respect to .

Other embodiments can provide a receiver block integrated with the I O block that based on receiving the button control signal s from the remote control directly generates one or more device control signals usable by the display device as page commands to control the application s displayed image.

The wired connection to the electronic display device can in some embodiments terminate in a connector that plugs into or otherwise mates with a connector on the display device . In some embodiments the connector can be provided on a housing of the interface assembly or provided at locations remote from the interface assembly . For example in a music reading embodiment the interface assembly can be located within a music stand and the wired connection can be a wire routed to a top portion of the stand where the connector is located. The connector of the display device can then be easily mated with the connector as the device is placed on the top of the music stand ready to be used to display sheet music.

Electronic display device can be any display device capable of displaying images such as documents or other data collections having pages on a display screen of the device. Device can include electronic circuitry as described above with respect to and other figures. The embodiment in this example is described using an iPad as the electronic display device . In other embodiments other iOS iPhone Operating System display devices can be used or other types of electronic display devices as described above with reference to . Device can display images including pages of a document accessible by the device where the device control signals received from the interface assembly are operative to control an application running on the display device to control the display of an image such as displaying a different page of a document displayed on the device.

The electronic display device can include a connector to which the interface assembly is connected by a wire and through which the I O block sends signals to the device . For example connector can be a docking port connector of the device which can connect to various hardware accessories. In some embodiments the connector can support the device as a physical stand via the connector .

Application code can be provided to run on the electronic display device . In the present example application code is an application that receives the control signals provided by the I O block and commands display functions of the device . In the present example the application code determines when a control signal is received and displays a different page of a document on the display screen of the electronic display device . For example if a Page Forward command is received the next page of the document is displayed in place of a current page. If a Page Back command is received a previous page of the document is displayed. Other commands can also be implemented as described herein. In other embodiments the application code can be only an interface portion of the code which communicates with a separate application viewer program that displays images such as a document.

The I O block can include a controller chip which is used to control the functions of the I O block . Controller chip receives input signals and sends output signals to and from components such as the receiver block and other components of the I O block such as memory buffers or other standard components not shown . The I O block thus effectively is used in the decoding of the received button control signals to provide device control signals. For example a number of digital I O lines signal paths can be provided to capture one or more signals provided by the receiver block from the remote control . In one embodiment one or more of the digital I O lines each provides an interrupt signal to firmware executing on the controller chip to indicate that a page command signal has been received from the remote control . In other embodiments other interrupts based on a change of signal can be used for other signals received from the remote control .

A device compatibility chip can be provided in some embodiments to provide the necessary signals to the electronic display device to cause the I O block to appear as an authorized device to the device and permit the I O block to interface with the device . For example in an embodiment using an iPad as device the device compatibility chip can be an Apple chip provided by Apple Inc. which includes specialized code and provides authorized signals to identify itself to the operating system of the iPad to authenticate the I O block for use with the iPad .

The controller chip provides control signals to the electronic display device by sending signals via wire to the device connector attached to the device . For example in the example using the iPad as device the connector is a standard 30 pin connector that is the primary interface of the iPad to hardware accessory devices. The communications between the controller chip and the iPad can be for example via serial USART universal serial asynchronous receiver transmitter operating at for example about 19.2 kbps or other suitable data rate.

In one example the controller chip can be a Microchip Inc. PIC16 embedded processor running at about 4 MHz clock speed set via internal clock. If no crystal oscillator is used the tolerance of the clock is relatively inaccurate but acceptable for the functions of particular embodiments. In some embodiments the controller chip executes C code with about 50 of the program memory utilized and approximately 80 of the code handling the establishing of secure communications to and from the OS on the iPad .

The output signal from the receiver block can be captured by the I O block e.g. by an interrupt on change IoC signal line. For example an RA2 input of the controller chip can be connected to the signal line providing signal where chip is a PIC16F690 controller chip. This chip provides eight interrupt lines that can cause an internal interrupt based on a change to that line. Some of the eight lines can already be in use e.g. as transmit Tx and receive Rx lines and SPI interface lines.

In the described embodiment a ground signal from a power supply not shown is used as a reference connected to a ground plane of the board of the I O block . The line and ground provide a 2 wire path such that the I O block can see and reference the output signal from the receiver block . In embodiments in which the output signal is a pulse train the pulse train is seen by the controller chip on the RA2 IoC line as a series of several interrupts. The controller chip in some embodiments is programmed to only activate on positive going changes 0 v to 3 v such that half the signal changes are captured.

In a pulse train signal embodiment the change in signal level can cause multiple interrupts to be generated on the board although only one interrupt is needed for a pulse train generated by the receiver block . Thus in one implementation a software counter can be used to count each positive signal change i.e. read as an interrupt of the pulse train signal. After a predetermined counter number is reached the counter is reset and a flag is set. In the main program loop of the controller if the flag is determined to have been set a command is built as a discrete digital device control signal and is sent to the display device over the transmit Tx serial line s and to the connector of the display device . This command is interpreted as a page command for the application code . For example in one embodiment a count of 200 positive going changes can be used to trigger the signal to the display device although this is dependent on the signals used in a particular embodiment. Thus the I O block can convert a pulse train signal from the receiver block to a discrete logic level digital signal for use with the application code of the electronic display device .

In some embodiments the I O block can also receive inputs from physical switches connected to the I O block via wired or wireless connections. Such physical switches can provided enhanced input or interface for the user to provide page commands to the display device . For example a foot pedal switch can be connected to the I O block which can be used to send a page forward signal or command to the display device. Such a foot pedal can be useful to users who have their hands otherwise occupied or disabled such as musicians playing an instrument and wanting to turn a page of sheet music displayed on the device . Another type of physical switch is one or more larger buttons dials levers or other types of controls which may be of use to people having difficulty pressing small buttons on the remote control unit. Another type of physical switch is a sip or blow switch which allows the user to send one or more signals based on manipulation of the switch by the user s mouth which can be useful for disabled persons for example. Connection interfaces such as input output jacks or connectors can be provided on the housing of the interface assembly or other housing enclosing the I O block to connect to additional switches. For example common headphone jacks can be provided on a housing of the I O block or a separate housing.

Additional I O lines can be provided on the board of the I O block in other embodiments. For example a different PIC controller such as the PIC16LF1936 can be used to handle additional IOC lines to handle additional switches. The firmware of the controller chip can also be changed to accommodate different types of signals. For example instead of counting pulses in a pulse train signal from the receiver block and sending the command after a predetermined count of interrupts is reached as described above the controller chip can send the command signal at each received interrupt since each interrupt can be associated with a single activation e.g. button press or other switch activation . Additional loops can be added to monitor additional switches.

In one embodiment the remote page command application code includes two main functions a viewing program that displays documents and an interface object or function or notification object used to received the device control signals from the I O block and command the viewing program. In one example the viewing program is a modified version of a program called QuartzView available from Apple Inc. for the iPad or iPhone. The QuartzView program provides developers working knowledge of using Quartz a 2D library of routines that support basic drawing in Cocoa an application programming interface API for Apple computer products and for the iPhone iPad. The notification object is called CCTermController in and is an object that provides access to external accessories such as the I O block through a standard interface such as the Apple External Accessory Framework. A framework is similar to a library providing a standard set of calls to functions that are not included in the base operating system. These frameworks are included through function headers e.g. import statements and linking in the appropriate framework during the build of the application or project.

As shown in the example of the page command application code can include a hierarchy of objects used in an object oriented framework on the electronic display device . For example the ApplicationDelegate object represents the most common point across all the objects and acts as a delegate for the application itself performing initialization and setting up the first view or image displayed by the device . The MainViewController object is the first view controller that a user sees displayed by the device and provides a selection of programs or functions that the user can select to be executed. One such program is the viewer program used to display a document or other set of images having multiple pages. For example a PDF viewer program can be one of the items displayed by the MainViewController . The MainViewController can also be configured display a description of the document that is presented as an option to select. The QuartzViewController object is a subclass of the more generic QuartzView class object . The QuartzViewController object uses a QuartzPDFView object to manipulate PDF documents.

The CCTermController object is a notification object that interacts with the connection to the I O block external to the display device and connected via the connector . For page turning functionality this code provides a page notification that is broadcast each time data is received from the I O board via the connector . Any other objects subscribed to the notification object and listening for the notifications will detect them upon the broadcast and perform actions in response to receiving the notifications such as changing the display on the device in accordance with the notification.

The application code can also be changed in some embodiments to accept additional and or multiple types of input signals from the I O block such as from additional switches. Thus the application code can be provided with a protocol to distinguish what type of signal it has received such that the I O block sends a different signal or value for different page commands such as Page Forward Page Back etc. The CCTermController object of the application code can create and broadcast different notifications each type of notification associated with a different type of signal page command. The object that actually performs the page turning function and display of the application can subscribe to each of the different types of notifications and act according to any notification received.

Some examples of interfacing with an accessory for an iPhone OS for use with an iPhone or iPad are described in by Ken Maskrey 2010 from Apress which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

When operating the system an example of a procedure of operation is now described. This procedure is only one example of many possible operation procedures. The receiver block is powered on by a pushbutton or other control. The electronic display device can then be powered and displays a menu screen including an icon which can be selected to run an associated viewer program such as the remote page command application code described above. For example the user can tap the screen to select this icon.

In one example the device can display a tableview provided by the MainViewController object after the application icon has been selected by the user on a previous first menu screen. The tableview can be a list of available documents and in this example includes a selection for the page command application. If the user then selects e.g. taps the single row in the tableview for the application the first page of an associated document is displayed. In other embodiments a list of different documents can be displayed in the tableview any of which the user can select for display of the appropriate first page.

The user can command the next or previous pages of the document to be displayed using the normal interface of the device . For example using an iPad the user can perform a swipe finger gesture to the right on the display screen to display the next page or to the left to display the previous page.

The interface assembly can be connected to the device at the connector of the device such as by plugging in a mating connector on the assembly or I O block . The user can now select a page forward button on the remote control which causes the next page of the document to be displayed by the device . In some embodiments the user can select a page back button or other buttons or controls to command the device to perform other functions related to the document.

In embodiments such as the iPad or iPhone there may be restrictions for the application code in some circumstances. For example a provisioning profile may need to be created on a developer site for a particular set of devices for a particular application. Users who wish to use the program can load the provisioning profile using a configuration utility and load the program to their device. Such procedures are well known for particular devices such as the iPad and iPhone.

Remote control is used to transmit commands selected by a user to the electronic display device . The remote control includes all necessary electronics to transmit wireless signals such as RF signals. Other embodiments can use other types of signals and or connections such as IR wireless network etc. as described with respect to . The remote control can include one or more buttons or other switches or controls to be manipulated by a user similarly to the remote control of for providing transmitted commands. For example buttons for Page Forward Page Back and or navigating to other portions of a document can be provided on the remote control .

Electronic display device can be similar to the device of and is described in this example as an iPad. Device receives wirelessly transmitted button control signals from the remote control to control an application running on the display device to change a displayed image of the device such as changing the page of a document displayed by the application. For example the electronic display device can in some embodiments be the display device E of described above which includes an integrated button activator E. Such an integrated button activator can be for example code integrated in an application running on the device . In other embodiments the remote control device can be considered to have the integrated button activator as described above with reference to .

In the described embodiment the remote control communicates with the device using a standard wireless communication protocol such as Bluetooth . Other types of protocols or standards can be used in other embodiments.

The Bluetooth standard provides a short range wireless communications standard for exchanging data between devices. Bluetooth is defined as a layer protocol architecture consisting of core protocols cable replacement protocols telephony control protocols and adopted protocols. Some of these are basic more common functional protocols of Bluetooth found in commonly available devices for example a common Bluetooth application is wireless headsets used with cellular phones for hands free exchange. Two common protocols are the Telephone Control Protocol and Telephony control protocol binary TCP BIN . TCS BIN is a bit oriented protocol that defines call control signaling for the establishment of voice and data calls between Bluetooth devices such as a headset and a cell phone. Another commonly found protocol in portable music players e.g. MP3 players is the Audio Visual Data Transport Protocol AVDTP used to stream music to stereo headsets over an L2CAP Logical Link Control and Adaptation Protocol channel. An L2CAP channel is used to multiplex multiple logical connections between two device using different higher level protocols.

In the example embodiment of system a different Bluetooth protocol can be used known as RFCOMM radio frequency communications . RFCOMM is a protocol used to replace a cable connection and creates a virtual serial data stream. RFCOMM provides for binary data transport and emulates RS 232 serial control signals over the Bluetooth baseband layer and provides a simple reliable data stream to the user similar to TCP. For example it is used directly by many telephony related profiles as a carrier for modem AT commands as well as being a transport layer for OBEX Object Exchange over Bluetooth. Many Bluetooth applications use RFCOMM because of its widespread support and publicly available API on most operating systems. Additionally applications that used a serial port to communicate can be quickly ported to use RFCOMM.

The electronic display device can include a software stack similar to that of device described above for system . are diagrams illustrating the software stacks for two systems where illustrates a software stack system for the system of using a wired connection and physical connectors and illustrates a software stack system for the system of using a wireless connection. In an OS stack includes software components and application code including everything from the top level applications to the lower level drivers and software at the bottom of the stack that allow communication over the physical pins of connector . An accessory stack resides on the interface assembly such as in the I O block and includes the higher level code interrupt routines and lower level software components for communicating over the physical connector such as protocol code USART transmission control routines counters etc.

In a similar OS stack includes software components and application code. The bottom of the stack includes components for handling Bluetooth communication which is built into display devices such as the iPad and iPhone. The Bluetooth connection communicates with an accessory stack similarly to the embodiment in except that in this embodiment the communication is wireless Bluetooth and the accessory stack resides on the remote control . The lowest level components of the accessory stack on the remote control transmit and receive signals over the Bluetooth protocol. Thus the stacks of are essentially the same as the stacks for except for the lowest level components using wireless communication instead of wired communication.

Referring back to in some embodiments the wireless system can use application code running on the electronic display device that is the same as the application code running on system of . In such an embodiment the application code receives control signals from the remote control such as values indicating the particular command sent. The application code includes viewer application code to display the next page previous page or perform a different page function as indicated by the received command.

In another embodiment existing applications can be modified by developers to be compatible with the remote control system . For example existing reader or viewer applications such as iBooks from Apple Inc. Kindle from Amazon.com for the iPad and Stanza from Lexcycle Inc. can display a next page previous page or perform some other function commanded by the remote control . In one such embodiment an application developer can license the functionality of the page turning system to use with his or her application.

Adding page turning capability to an existing application enhances the functionality of the application and expands the user base. For example the user experience is enhanced by providing people with limited mobility the ability to use the application. This applies to people with inherent limited mobility as well as situational limited mobility e.g. people performing a task in a situation where their hands are not free to initiate gestures or otherwise control the device to turn pages or perform other functions. For example musicians may have their hands occupied playing an instrument and yet need to turn pages of a musical score.

In one example of a developer adding functionality to interface with the page turner remote control particular steps can be performed. The steps can include the application owner or developer contacting a company controlling the page turning system to obtain a license. The company can whitelist the developer in a product plan for the product on a developer site e.g. the Apple Made For iPod Works With iPhone developer site. This allows a bundle seed identifier a unique code in the accessory hardware to be available to the application developer. The company can then provide the developer a set of remote page command code such as the accessory controller object notification object to be added to the developer s software. In the embodiment of this can be the CCTermController object. The company can also provide some guidance as to how the code is to be integrated into the developer s application. The developer then can add the code to his or her project and use the bundle seed identifier to re build the application. At this point the developer s application is compatible with and work with the remote control to provide the page turning system .

The application developer also can modify his or her code so that signals from the remote control cause displayed pages to turn. Generally in the object where page numbering and or turning is handled the developer can add code to subscribe to the notifications provided by the notification object. The remote page command remote control provides different page turn notifications including forward one page back one page forward one chapter back one chapter forward to end of document back to beginning of document etc. The specific set of commands notifications can be configurable by the developer or user. For example a button sequence of buttons or type or configuration of button press one press two presses in succession time interval between presses etc. can be configured by the user to be interpreted as different types of page commands by the application code .

The existing gesture recognizers or other page turning mechanism include assigned methods to call when the internal recognizer detects or recognizes a particular gesture. Those methods are functions that page the document forward backward etc. Typically they perform two actions change a page number variable or equivalent and refresh the display to a new page through a method call to a function such as setNeedsDisplay or other display function .

New code can be put into the base application and in the described example can provide compatibility with the remote control system . Thus the code can be provided as part of a button activator of the remote control system that is integrated in the device and enables control over page functions of the device. For example for each distinct signal type of command that is desired to be recognized from the remote control a line of code can be added to the application to the view controller object in which the page display is performed. In one example the line of code can be as follows 

This code addObserver self adds itself as an observer of subscriber to the notification. Using the selector parameter the method pageForwardOneFromRemote is added as the method that activates or fires when the notification is seen. The name of the notification that is looked for is specified as pageForwardOne and nil is passed to the object parameter. The nil indicates that no data is expected to accompany the notification. This is all called on or performed under the default notification center of which there is only one in the application and is shared among all objects.

Alternatively notifications can be sent accompanied with data such as parameters further defining the page command. For example the parameters can be the number of pages to move in any direction the amount in pixels scaling factor or other measure of pan or zoom to be applied to the image displayed by the display device or any other specifiable parameters.

A notification command such as shown in the code example above is defined for each type of notification that is to be processed by the application. These types of notifications can be for received page commands including pageForward and pageBackward as shown in the new code of . Additional types can also be used such as other navigation commands for a document go to start go to end go to next chapter or user defined bookmark etc. 

The code example above monitors and acts upon received notifications. The notifications are generated by code supplied by the remote control system owner provider in an accessory control object notification object . Notifications are sent based upon the commands sent by the transmitter unit of the remote control and received by the wireless receiver of the device . Notifications can always be sent regardless of whether or not the application on the device monitors and acts upon the notifications. The notifications generated by the accessory control object go to a notification center and are forwarded to any object listening for subscribed to them. If no object is listening for the notifications then no notifications are forwarded i.e. the notifications are dropped without consequence.

It should be noted that the posting of notifications is simpler than monitoring and reacting to them. Here again using the default notification center the pageForwardOne type of notification is posted to the notification center used for causing the next page of the displayed document to be displayed . The object parameter identifies the sender of the notification as this object. Listeners can not only listen for particular notifications but also for all notifications from named senders. It should also be noted that the names of the notifications can be any name defined by the developer of the code in a particular embodiment.

The enclosure can be any housing for enclosing and securing the electronic and other components of the remote control such as I O panel and logic board . For example the enclosure can be a box like case having a form factor to house the desired components including accuracy of fit and mounting holes. In one example production units can be created using injection molding with ABS or ABS PC Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene Polycarbonate material.

The I O panel provides one or more controls for the user to activate to provide an activation signal to the logic board to cause the logic board to send button control signals to the display device . Such controls can include buttons dials switches etc. For example I O panel can be in an area of the enclosure that is configured for buttons and connectors such as 3.5 mm jacks or any other desired controls and or connectors. In one configuration a pageForward button a pageBackward button a power switch and a charging switch for remote controls using a rechargeable battery design can be provided with holes in the enclosure provided for customized button sizes and positioning. Separate molds can be used for differently sized remote control units.

The logic board controls the operation of the remote control including receiving activation signals from the I O panel in response to the user activating one or more controls and transmitting button control signals to the electronic display device in response to such activation signals. The board accepts external control inputs from controls mounted in the enclosure or from control such as remote switches connected to the I O panel e.g. switches connected via two conductor wire routed to case mounted 3.5 mm female jacks. Using such jacks or other types of connectors permits use of any type of remote switch to provide page commands in system e.g. a foot pedal a large button a sip blow switch usable by the mouth of a disabled person etc.

Referring back to a controller chip can be provided on the logic board to control the operation of the remote control . In one embodiment the controller chip can be a Microchip PIC16 controller such as the PIC16F690 or PIC16LF1936 similarly as described above for the embodiment of . Other processor chips can be used in other embodiments.

A communications chip can be used to implement the wireless protocol and transmit appropriate signals compliant with the protocol. For example in embodiments using Bluetooth as described herein the communications chip can be a Bluetooth communications chip that implements the Bluetooth protocol and provides additional features. For example the CSR BlueCore5 chip includes a DSP stereo CODED flash etc. The communications chip communicates with the controller chip as needed to provide appropriate wireless output signals from the remote control where control software on the chip interfaces with the communications chip .

The device compatibility chip can be provided in some embodiments to provide the necessary signals to the electronic display device to cause the remote control to appear as an authorized device to the device such that the commands from the remote control are properly received by the device similarly as described above for .

Power and regulation block can provide power to the controller chip communications chip and device compatibility chip . For example the block can be a regulated power source providing sufficient power e.g. nominally at 3.3 volts to drive the remote control for an expected time duration. The amount of power drawn by the remote control is dependent on usage and number of I O connections. For example one or more batteries can supply the necessary power and the remote control can include power saving features as described above. The logic board can also include ESD protection such as protection diodes that protect all external input and output to and from the logic board thus preventing damage to the board and to the remote control .

The input and output signals includes the signals used by the remote control including output wireless button control signals to command the display device and input activation signals from buttons and other controls connected to the remote control .

Although various examples have been described using specific terms and devices such description is for illustrative purposes only. The words used are words of description rather than of limitation. In addition it should be understood that aspects of various other examples may be interchanged either in whole or in part. It is therefore intended that the claims be interpreted in accordance with their true spirit and scope and without limitation or estoppel.

