---

title: Centralized publisher management
abstract: A management system can recommend and manage publishing content with publishers of business information. A representative can provide unique identifying information for a business that can be used to determine a category of similar businesses. Based on the identified category, a list of publishers can be identified to the representative as related to the business category. The representative can select one or more of the publishers to publish content about the business. Based on the representative selection, the system can request a set of content from the representative. After receiving the content from the representative, the system can translate the content to formats acceptable to each of the publishers. The content can then be provided to the publishers to publish. The published content can then be monitored for problems, and corrected if problems are discovered.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08812647&OS=08812647&RS=08812647
owner: YP Intellectual Property LLC
number: 08812647
owner_city: Tucker
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140403
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 173 573 filed Feb. 5 2014 entitled ADVERTISING TRACKING AND ALERT SYSTEMS the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Aspects of the disclosure relate to online publishing. In particular aspects of the disclosure relate to systems methods apparatuses and computer readable media for managing and evaluating publisher content.

Marketing can be viewed as managing customer experience from brand introduction through repeat purchases. This customer experience can include advertising social media product placement package design interface design and many other engagement points. Each of these engagement points can cost both time and or money. Business representatives can choose which engagement points are worth the time and effort.

There are many ways to reach out to potential customers using these engagement points. Business representatives can reach out to customers through such ways as advertising social media displays and sponsorships. This reaching out to customers can have a purpose of interacting with the customer to bring awareness cause customer brand reconsideration or adjust brand perception. Through this interaction a business representative can attempt to recruit and retain customers.

Techniques described and suggested herein include systems and methods for determining publishers to receive business content. As described herein certain embodiments use identification information e.g. address name phone number etc. as at least a partial basis for such determinations. The representative can select one or more of the publishers to publish content about the business. Based on the representative selection the system can request a set of content from the representative. After receiving the content from the representative the system can translate the content to formats acceptable to each of the publishers. The content can then be provided to the publishers to publish. The published content can then be monitored for problems and corrected if problems are discovered.

Systems can analyze reviews and recommend responses. The system can monitor publishers for content provided by users. When new content about a business is published the system can notify a representative. The representative can visit a dashboard which provides recommendations of responses to the published content. The recommendations can help a business navigate responses to negative content and engage with positive content.

Content and content metadata can be analyzed to determine whether a set of reviews can be attributed to a single persona. The system can analyze publisher content provided by a first user account to determine if the content is similar to other content provided by a second user account. The similarities can include both lexical information and meta data e.g. IP address user name . If sufficient similarities exist the system can determine that the first and second user accounts share a same source e.g. a same user .

Systems can analyze publisher information to determine one or more ratings for an online business evaluation. Publisher content can be evaluated to determine statistics about the business. Based on the statistics the business can be rated in one or more characteristics.

Systems can analyze publisher information to determine attributes of the business and sentiment relating to the identified attributes. The system can perform a lexical analysis of content provided by a publisher to determine attributes described in the content. The analysis can include sentiment analysis to determine whether the attribute is positively viewed or negatively viewed. A representative can view this attribute information and determine aspects of the business in need of correction. The attributes can also be compared with other businesses that share a category.

In one aspect a system for centrally managing online interactions amongst a plurality of publishers is disclosed and may include any one or combination of the following. A network interface may communicate with a client and a first set of publishers over a network providing connectivity to the system the client and the first set of publishers. A setup interface may receive first content that includes information for unique identification of a business. Storage may hold an association between a first category in a directory and the first set of publishers the first category representing a classification of a set of businesses sharing common attributes. A matching engine may match the business to the first category from storage based at least in part on the first content received through the setup interface. A management interface may compile second content based at least in part on the first set of publishers associated with the first category the second content including content for publication by the first set of publishers associated with the first category. A content repository may store the second content compiled by the management interface. A publication interface may communicate with the first set of publishers over the network. A publication engine using the publication interface may retrieve at least a portion of the second content from the content repository transmit the second content to at least a subset of publishers from the first set of publishers and request publication of listings of the business by each of the subset of publishers.

In some embodiments a translation system may translate the second content stored by the content repository into a third content to meet submission requirements of a publisher. In some embodiments a recommendation engine may combine the first set of publishers associated with the first category and a second set of publishers selected based at least in part on online influence to form a set of recommended publishers. In some embodiments the recommendation engine may include a ranking subsystem to rank the set of recommended publishers based at least in part on an importance rating. In some embodiments the publication engine may include a customer selection interface to receive customer input to select a subset of recommended publishers from the set of recommended publishers at which the second content should be published. In some embodiments a billing system may determine a payment amount based at least in part on a number of recommended publishers selected by the customer. In some embodiments a questionnaire engine may prepare a content questionnaire to present through the management interface based at least in part on the category or the subset of publishers. In some embodiments the first category may be a telephone directory category. In some embodiments a preview renderer may retrieve at least some of the second content from the content repository and prepare a rendering of how the portion of the second content would appear if published by a publisher.

In another aspect a method for centrally managing business information amongst a plurality of publishers is disclosed. The method may include any one or combination of the following. Information enabling unique identification of a first business may be received. The first business may be matched to a first category from a set of categories of a directory where the first business matches one or more categories of the set of categories the first category representing a first classification of a first set of businesses sharing a first set of common attributes. A first set of publishers may be selected to receive a first set of content describing the first business based at least in part on the first category the first set of publishers selected for electronic publication of at least some of the first set of content. The first set of content related to the first set of publishers associated with the first category may be retrieved the first set of content describing first aspects of businesses assigned to the first category and the first set of content including a first superset of content consumed by each of the first set of publishers. For each of a first subset of publishers from the first set of publishers a first subset of content may be prepared from the first set of content for consumption by a first publisher from the first subset of publishers the first subset of content may be transmitted over a communication network to the first publisher and the first publisher may be caused to publish the first subset of content. Information enabling unique identification of a second business may be received. The second business may be matched to a second category from the set of categories of the directory where the second business matches to one or more categories of the set of categories the second category representing a second classification of a second set of businesses sharing a second set of common attributes. A second set of publishers may be selected to receive a second set of content describing the second business based at least in part on the second category the second set of publishers selected for electronic publication of at least some of the second set of content. The second set of content related to the second set of publishers associated with the second category may be retrieved the second set of content describing second aspects of businesses assigned to the second category and the second set of content including a second superset of content consumed by each of the second set of publishers. For each of a second subset of publishers from the second set of publishers a second subset of content may be prepared from the second set of content for consumption by a second publisher from the second subset of publishers the second subset of content may be transmitted over the communication network to the second publisher and the second publisher may be caused to publish the second subset of content. The first category and the second category may be different the first business and the second business may be different and a size of a symmetric difference of the first set of publishers and the second set of publishers may be greater than zero.

In some embodiments the first set of publishers may be ranked based at least in part on a first metric and recommending the first subset of publishers may be based at least in part on the ranking. In some embodiments the first metric may be an estimated conversion rate of a consumer of publisher content into a client with a relationship with the first business. In some embodiments the preparing the first subset of content for consumption by the first publisher from the first subset of publishers may include retrieving a first portion of the first subset of content and preparing a first rendering of how the first portion of the first subset of content would appear if published by the first publisher. The preparing the second subset of content for consumption by the second publisher from the second subset of publishers may include retrieving a second portion of the second subset of content and preparing a second rendering of how the second portion of the second subset of content would appear if published by the second publisher.

In some embodiments a first set of credentials may be created for use with the first publisher on behalf of the first business. The first set of credentials may be stored for later use. The first set of credentials may be provided when acting on behalf of the first business to publish first information regarding the first business. A second set of credentials may be created for use with the second publisher on behalf of the second business. The second set of credentials may be stored for later use. The second set of credentials may be provided when acting on behalf of the second business to publish second information regarding the second business.

In some embodiments a first set of published content about the first business published by the first publisher may be monitored for changes. It may be determined that the first set of published content was modified. A warning that the first set of published content was modified may be provided. A second set of published content about the second business published by the second publisher may be monitored for changes. It may be determined that the second set of published content was modified. A warning that the second set of published content was modified may be provided.

In some embodiments first published content about the first business published by the first publisher may be monitored for a first review of the first business. It may be determined that the first review was negative. A first warning that the first review was negative may be provided. Second published content about the second business published by the second publisher may be monitored for a second review of the second business. It may be determined that the second review was negative. A second warning that the second review was negative may be provided.

In some embodiments a first suggested response to the first review of the first business based at least in part on the first category may be provided. The first publisher may be caused to publish the first suggested response to the first review. A second suggested response to the second review of the second business based at least in part on the second category may be provided. The second publisher may be caused to publish the second suggested response to the second review.

In yet another aspect a non transitory one or more machine readable media having machine readable instructions thereon for managing an online presence are disclosed. The instructions when executed by one or more computers or other processing devices may cause the one or more computers or other processing devices to perform one or more of the following. A set of categories for business listings in a directory determined the set of categories representing classifications of businesses into categories of businesses sharing a set of common attributes each business belonging to one or more categories. A first set of common attributes that are shared by a first set of businesses assigned to a first category may be identified the first set of common attributes describing first aspects of the first set of businesses assigned to the first category and the first set of common attributes defining a first set of content to request from the first set of businesses assigned to the first category. A first set of publishers to associate with the first category may be identified. The first set of common attributes may be associated with the first category the first set of common attributes defining a first superset of content suitable to request from a first business assigned to the first category where at least a first portion of the first superset of content is consumed by the first set of publishers. A second set of common attributes that are shared by a second set of businesses assigned to a second category may be identified the second set of common attributes describing second aspects of the second set of businesses assigned to the second category and the second set of common attributes defining a second set of content to request from the second set of businesses assigned to the second category. A second set of publishers to associate with the second category may be identified. The second set of common attributes may be associated with the second category the second set of common attributes defining a second superset of content suitable to request from a second business assigned to the second category where at least a second portion of the second superset of content is consumed by the second set of publishers. The first category may be different from the second category and a size of a symmetric difference of the first set of publishers and the second set of publishers is greater than zero.

In some embodiments the first set of publishers may be monitored for changes to first provided content provided to the first set of publishers on behalf of the first set of businesses assigned to the first category. A warning to a first client of the first business assigned to the first category may be provided consequent to discovery that first changes to the first provided content relating to the first business. The second set of publishers may be monitored for changes to second provided content provided to the second set of publishers on behalf of the second set of businesses assigned to the second category. A warning to a second client of the second business assigned to the second category may be provided consequent to discovery of a second change to the second provided content relating to the second business.

In some embodiments a first dashboard describing a first set of published content published by the first set of publishers may be provided. A second dashboard describing a second set of published content by the second set of publishers may be provided. In some embodiments first customer engagement content to publish on behalf of the first business with a first publisher may be determined based at least in part on the first category and the first publisher. Second customer engagement content to publish on behalf of the second business with a second publisher may be determined based at least in part on the second category and the second publisher.

Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating various embodiments are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to necessarily limit the scope of the disclosure.

In the appended figures similar components and or features may have the same reference label. Further various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference label by a dash and a second label that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the first reference label is used in the specification the description is applicable to any one of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.

The ensuing description provides preferred exemplary embodiment s only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the disclosure. Rather the ensuing description of the preferred exemplary embodiment s will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing a preferred exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. It should be understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as set forth in the appended claims.

Techniques described and suggested herein include systems and methods for determining publishers to receive business content. A list of publishers can be identified to a representative. The representative can select one or more of the publishers to publish content about the business. Based on the representative selection the system can request a set of content from the representative. After receiving the content from the representative the system can translate the content to formats acceptable to each of the publishers. The content can then be provided to the publishers to publish. The published content can then be monitored for problems and corrected if problems are discovered.

The publishing management system can receive a selection of publishers from the representative. Based on the selection the publishing management system can determine a superset of content to request from the representative about the business e.g. pictures hours products services hyperlinks video audio documents whitepapers static content dynamic content etc. . After receiving the superset of content or at least a portion thereof the publishing management system can transmit content from the superset of content to individual publishers such as through a publisher application programming interface API . The publishing management system can convert the superset of content to formats usable by the selection of publishers if needed e.g. resize pictures transcode video translate a word processing document to HTML etc. .

Systems can analyze reviews and recommend responses. The system can monitor publishers for content provided by users. When new content about a business is published the system can notify a representative. The representative can visit a dashboard which provides recommendations of responses to the published content. The recommendations can help a business navigate responses to negative content and engage with positive content.

For example the publishing management system can identify a negative review of a steakhouse on a restaurant review website. The publishing management system can analyze the negative review including metadata of the review to determine a source and or potential motive of the negative review. Based on the analysis of the review suggested responses can be proposed. A suggested response can include a public response with an apology an invitation to talk to the manager and request that people let the business know of any problem with the service at the time of the service. A second suggested response can include a request to a publisher API that the review be taken down as spam because of the lack of details and foreign IP address.

Content and content metadata can be analyzed to determine whether a set of reviews can be attributed to a single persona. The system can analyze publisher content provided by a user account to determine if the content is similar to other content provided by a second user account. The similarities can include both lexical information and metadata e.g. IP address user name . If sufficient similarities exist the system can determine that the user accounts share a same source e.g. a same user .

For example the publishing management system can determine that a new positive review was published about a lawn service. The publishing management system can analyze the review including performing a lexical analysis and obtaining metadata e.g. IP address account name time of posting etc. to determine a similarity to another positive review. As the similarities between the reviews exceed a threshold the publishing management system can determine that the two review accounts are likely the same user operating the accounts i.e. same persona . A representative of the lawn service can be notified that the review was published and that the persona has published two positive reviews. In some cases the publishing management system can recommend actions to take based on the review e.g. sending a private thank you message and or a coupon .

Systems can analyze publisher information to determine one or more ratings for an online business evaluation. Publisher content can be evaluated to determine statistics about the business. Based on the statistics the business can be rated in one or more characteristics. The statistics ratings and or characteristics can allow a representative to determine how the business publishing strategy is performing.

For example publishing management system can analyze published content including metadata about and relating to a business. The publishing management system can gather information about aspects of the business including social media interactions mentions in forums advertising campaigns responses to and from the business etc. The publishing management system can convert the analysis into various statistics e.g. number of likes per post number of followers frequency of posts median number of responses per post frequency of business mention in conversations number of positive reviews number of publishers with company information frequency of coupons etc. .

Systems can analyze publisher information to determine attributes of the business and sentiment relating to the identified attributes. The system can perform a lexical analysis of content provided by a publisher to determine attributes described in the content. The analysis can include sentiment analysis to determine whether the attribute is positively viewed or negatively viewed. A representative can view this attribute information and determine aspects of the business in need of correction.

For example a review of a computer repair technician can state that the computer repairman was competent and nice but their clothing was disgusting. A publishing management system can obtain the review and perform a lexical and sentiment analysis. The analysis can determine that the review indicates positive sentiment for attributes of competency and friendliness but also a negative sentiment toward an attribute of cleanliness. These attributes can be compiled with other analyses to form a list of attributes with sentiments. This list can then identify attributes that are mentioned by clients customers and how they feel about those attributes.

In certain embodiments determinations of which publishers may receive business content may be based at least in part on an identified category of the business. A representative can provide unique identifying information for a business that can be used to determine a category of similar businesses e.g. a phone book listing category NAICS North American Industry Classification System etc. . In such embodiments based at least in part on the identified category a list of publishers can be identified to the representative as related to the business category. For example an automotive parts store representative can provide uniquely identifying information into a publishing management system e.g. name address etc. . Based on the uniquely identifying information the publishing management system can determine the automotive parts store can be part of an automotive parts dealer subcategory of an automotive category. Based on the automotive category the publishing management system can recommend publishers related to the automotive category and generic publishers that are useful across multiple categories. Publishers related to the automotive category can include automotive social media sites e.g. Autotrader.com related discussion bulletin boards e.g. cheapestgas.com and other web sites that can have an audience identified as related e.g. familyvacations.com . Generic publishers can also be recommended because of their exposure e.g. Facebook.com LinkedIn.com Google etc. . In some embodiments these recommended publishers are pre selected based on the determined effectiveness of reaching a target audience e.g. customers clients businesses etc. of businesses related to the category.

In some embodiments systems can analyze reviews and recommend responses based at least in part on an identified category of the business. Based on a category of the business and the analysis of the review suggested responses can be proposed. For example a restaurant may be part of a category of fine dining a suggested response can include a public response with an apology an invitation to talk to the manager and request that people let the restaurant know of any problem with the meal at the time of the meal.

With some embodiments publisher content may be evaluated to determine statistics about the business ratings of the business in one or more characteristics based on the statistics and the evaluation can be business category specific. The online business evaluation can be compared against other businesses in a same or similar business category. This comparison can allow a representative to determine how the business publishing strategy is performing against other businesses including those from a same category. Using a category of the business to provide areas of emphasis the statistics can be used to generate rating values for the areas of emphasis. The ratings can be repeated for competitors to provide insight into how competitors are rated as well as a category average. Using these ratings a business representative can determine which areas of emphasis could be improved or which provide a competitive advantage.

In some embodiments systems may not only analyze publisher information to determine attributes of the business and sentiment relating to the identified attributes but also may compare attributes with other businesses that share a category. The attributes can include attributes as defined by the category and attributes separately identified. This analysis can also be repeated for other businesses. The attributes and sentiments of competitors can be used for comparisons as well as category averages.

Turning now to a block diagram of an embodiment of a publisher management system is shown in accordance with certain embodiments of the present disclosure. A management system provides a single interface for a business representative to manage content provided by publishers to to end users to on behalf of a business. In some embodiments the management system can use categories to customize recommendations to the representative in managing content provided to publishers to 

The representative operates a computing resource such as a desktop computer laptop computer or mobile device to communicate with the management system . The representative makes decisions on behalf of the business. These decisions can include implementing recommendations provided by the management system . By using the management system the representative does not need to manage each publisher relationship separately. Further the representative can be provided more summary information about end user sentiment and or activity than could be observed through separate publisher interactions.

The management system can provide a central point to manage information between the business representative publishers to and end users to . The management system monitors and analyzes content published by publishers to . Some content published by publishers to is provided by end users to . The management system provides information about content provided by publishers to to the computing resource . The management system can also receive information from the computing resource and translate the information for use by the publishers to . The translated information can then be sent for publication by the publishers to 

The management system can also analyze the content published by publishers to . The analysis can include recommendations of publishers to provide content recommended responses to reviews identifying a persona across multiple accounts rating areas of emphasis and identifying user sentiment of attributes of the business. In some embodiments the analysis can be customized based on a category of the business. Based on the analysis the management system can provide recommendations statistics identify areas of weakness and or identify areas of competence. In some embodiments the management system can implement recommendations.

Publishers to can publish content that is accessed by end users to . In some embodiments end users to provide content to publishers to to publish. Publishers to can include social media sites websites forums review sites etc. Some publishers to can allow interaction with content through APIs such as receiving and or transmitting content and or notifications. As publishers to attract end users to it can be desirable for a business representative to interact with end users to through publishers to 

In some embodiments the management system can assign publishers to to categories. Some publishers can be assigned to specific categories. Other publishers can be considered generically applicable. For example a review website for aftermarket car parts can be assigned to a specific category of automotive and aftermarket retail. A popular social media site e.g. Facebook.com Google LinkedIn.com business listing site e.g. yellowpages.com or other publisher can be determined to be generically applicable to all or most categories. In some embodiments the management system can recommend to business representatives both generic publishers and category specific customers.

When used herein a category is a grouping of businesses that share common characteristics. Categories can include other categories sometimes referred to as subcategories . For example an automotive category can include all of an automotive parts dealer category. Categories do not have to be mutually exclusive as a business can be assigned more than one category. For example a computer repair shop can be assigned to a computer repair category and a computer parts retail category. An example of a set of categories can be a set of business listing categories in a phone book. Another example of a set of categories can be the NAICS North American Industry Classification System .

After receiving a selection of publishers to the management system determines a superset of content to request from client . Client provides client content to management system . Management system can translate the client content to content to compatible with each publisher to . Content to can then be transmitted to matching publishers to 

Management system can include client network interface engines datastores and publisher network interface . Client network interface can communicate with clients to and receive client content to . The client network interface can include interfaces to enable the management system functionality. The client network interface can include a setup interface that enables the management system to receive unique identifying information of a business. The client network interface can include a content receiving interface that enables receipt of content for publishing by publishers to . The client network interface can include a dashboard interface that enables clients to to monitor publisher content and make changes to publisher content e.g. add a new address provide a new posting etc. . The client network interface can include a selection interface that provides recommendations of publishers and receives selections of publishers. The client network interface can include other client network interfaces and can communicate using various protocols and APIs.

Management system can include engines that process information from datastores client network interface and publisher network interface . The management system may include a recommendation engine . The recommendation engine may be configured to provide a list of publishers retrieved from the associations datastore and publishers datastore . A ranking subsystem can order the list of publishers for recommendation to the client.

In some embodiments the management system may include a matching engine that can receive unique business information and match the business to a category from category datastore . Based on the matched category the recommendation engine can provide a list of publishers associated with the category and generic publishers retrieved from the associations datastore and publishers datastore . And then the ranking subsystem can order the list of publishers for recommendation to the client.

A publication engine can receive a selection of publishers from client and determine a superset of client content to receive. The publication engine can receive client content and store it in content repository . A preview renderer can use client content to create a preview of how client content would appear if published by publisher . When a preview is approved by a business representative publication engine can retrieve content from content repository cause the content to be translated through translation system and provide the content to publish to to publishers to . If needed publication engine can create accounts with publishers to on behalf of client store credentials in credential store and use credentials to provide content to publish to to publishers to . Content monitoring system can monitor publishers to for changes to published content. Content changes can be reported back to client by content monitoring system with recommendations on fixing any problems. Publication engine can implement recommendations by content monitoring system .

Billing system can track usage billing and or authorization to use the management system. The billing system can bill businesses based on a number of publishers per month each publisher interaction for each service utilized and or a monthly fee. The billing system can operate in conjunction with payment processors to enable billing and payment for services.

Management system can include datastores . Data stores can include various forms of data storage including solid state storage disk storage databases including relational column document key value and graph type databases and cache. In some embodiments the datastores may include a category datastore which can include information about categories and characteristics of businesses that can be identified as part of the category. The datastores may include a publisher datastore which can include information about publishers including content accepted ranking information etc. In some embodiments the publisher datastore may include category affinities as well. The datastores may include an association datastore which can include information about client associations with publishers. In some embodiments the association datastore may include information about client associations with categories as well. The datastores may include a content repository which can include content provided by client to as well as translated content from content translation system . The datastores may include a credential datastore which can include credentials that are used on behalf of clients to to access one or more accounts of publishers to . Credentials can include username passwords tokens certificates etc. The datastores may include a metadata datastore which can include information about content clients publishers data stored in datastores log information etc.

The management system can include a publisher network interface that communicates with publishers to . The publisher network interface can include an authorization interface that uses credentials from credential datastore to access publishers to on behalf of clients to . A content interface can be configured to send and receive content to publishers to on behalf of clients to . API interface can access publishers to using APIs and provide API access to the management system by publishers to . The publisher network interface can receive content through a content translation system when client content does not match publisher requirements of content to publish .

The management system can be implemented by one or more computing resources. In some embodiments monitoring system can be implemented by a single server. In other embodiments each engine can comprise a set of servers that interact with other servers through API calls e.g. datastores engines client network interfaces publisher network interfaces .

In one example a car parts store representative uses a web browser client to connect to management system . The representative uses the setup interface to provide a business name address and product details. Recommendation engine provides the representative with a list of publishers e.g. Facebook.com Google Local Listings Yellowpages.com and LinkedIn.com from publisher datastore . In some embodiments matching engine may determine that the car parts store is part of an automotive category based on characteristics from category datastore and recommendation engine provides the representative with a list of publishers that match the category of automotive e.g. autotrader.com as well as generic publishers from publisher datastore . After the representative makes the selection billing system can require payment for the services requested e.g. 10 publishers per month . Publication engine can determine a superset of content needed for the 10 publishers selected including hours photographs contact information description and a list of representative products. Publication engine can receive the client content store it in content repository and cause preview renderer to provide a preview of the content to client . When approved publication engine causes any non conforming content to be translated through content translation system e.g. resizing and reformatting pictures translating formats of word processing documents etc. . Publication engine can receive credentials for access to publishers to from client or create them on behalf of the business and store the credentials in credential store . Using the credentials publication engine can use authorization interface content interface and or API interface to deliver content to publish e.g. hours photographs contact information description and a list of representative products to publishers to . A content monitoring system can ensure that the content continues to be correctly published. Corrections can be sent to the publication engine to be corrected.

The management system can also provide customer engagement reminders. For example the management system can remind a car parts dealer to post weekly to each publisher to . The management system can also remind business representatives of important dates to start campaigns. In some embodiments the customer engagement reminders could be based at least in part on categories. For example a local chocolate confectioner can be reminded to run a coupon near Valentine s Day while an automotive parts dealer can be reminded to run specials around the Fourth of July.

Management system can include client network interface engines datastores and publisher network interface . Client network interface can include engagement interface content receiving interface dashboard interface and review interface . Engagement interface can present response options e.g. apology offer comment campaign etc. to a business representative for responding to new publisher content . Engagement interface can also provide campaign options as determined by customer engagement engine to keep the representative performing customer engagement. In some embodiments this could be based at least in part on the category of the business. Content receiving interface can receive content from client to . A dashboard interface can provide information about customer engagement and new publisher content for review response and or implementation. Review interface can provide information about publisher content along with recommendations in responding to publisher content .

Engines can include review analysis engine with persona matching system preview renderer billing system customer engagement engine with campaign system review recommendation engine with ranking subsystem and content monitoring system . Review analysis engine can perform an analysis of publisher content to determine a response to publisher content . The analysis can include lexical analysis sentiment analysis metadata determination terms of use violations etc. Based on the analysis the review recommendation engine can provide one or more suggested responses to publisher content . The suggested responses can include public responses e.g. apologies thanks etc. private responses e.g. direct message offers e.g. coupons vouchers etc. publisher requests e.g. take down for terms of use violation spam etc. or other actions. In some embodiments one or more suggested responses could be based at least in part on a category of the business. Responses and text of proposed responses can depend on business category e.g. a luxury retailer may not give a coupon but an offer of a meeting with a manager and be retrieved from response repository . Ranking subsystem can organize proposed responses based on potential of successful outcome e.g. a takedown may not have much success and so it is ranked lower . In some embodiments proposed responses may be organized based at least in part on category. Preview renderer can provide a preview of the response before the response is implemented e.g. show a comment before it is posted .

Customer engagement engine can use engagement information from engagement datastore to provide reminders and proposals for a business representative to implement. Engagement engine can remind representatives to publish content to through publishers to . The content can include campaign information from campaign system . By reminding the representative to engage customers through publishers to the representative can keep the business at a forefront of customers minds using publishers and content. In some embodiments customer engagement engine can use category specific engagement information to provide reminders and proposals for a business representative to implement based on the category of business. Further campaigns can be implemented at strategic times of the year to keep customers coming to the business and in some embodiments the strategic times of the year could be tailored to a business category. Engines can use the authorization interface to use business credentials to interact with publishers to on behalf of the business.

Management system can include datastores as described above. In addition management system can include a response repository that includes potential responses as related to categories and or analysis attributes e.g. spam positive negative . In some embodiments engagement data can include customer engagement information as it relates to business categories. For example a chocolatier may need more frequent social media posts to keep customers hungry for the chocolate than an automotive parts store does to entice purchase of an exciting aftermarket part.

Content from engines can be provided to publishers to as described above through publisher network interface . The publisher network interface can also add tracking information for aiding in statistics and persona identifications. For example a publisher network interface can modify content to use a unique identifier e.g. a unique link that identifies traffic e.g. traffic from the publisher traffic from a user etc. .

The management system can include persona matching system . Persona matching system can identify a common user behind multiple publisher to accounts. In one embodiment the persona identification system can determine that accounts share a persona when a threshold value of characteristics is exceeded. For example a persona matching system can perform matching on lexical analysis of content from reviews review metadata for similarities e.g. IP address camera information username . Tests can also be performed to confirm a persona e.g. sending tracking information such as a tracked picture providing an offer that requires the shared accounts etc. . Should enough characteristics match the accounts can be considered operated by a single persona. By identifying a shared persona public campaigns can be identified and stopped or encouraged depending on the type of campaign.

For example management system through content monitoring system can identify two new negative reviews published by two different publishers. Review analysis engine can determine characteristics of the reviews including identifications of the customer s unsatisfactory treatment by a salesperson and a foreign IP address. Persona matching system can detect a common negative tone word choices and a common IP address that resolves to a foreign IP address. Persona matching system can determine that the reviews share a common persona. Review recommendation engine provides recommendations that include a request for take down and an apology with an invitation to return with a discount. A report can be issued to client through review interface that includes the recommendations and notification of the reviews. The review interface can receive instructions to perform the take down request. Review recommendation engine can implement the requested take down through API interface to publisher . Content monitoring system can then monitor the results of the take down request if any. Billing system can charge for services performed.

Report can also include recommendations from customer engagement engine . For example in accordance with certain embodiments recommendations can include providing two posts on two mini blog services and a campaign for an end of school sale due to the business category s determined relationship with schools e.g. skateboard shop and frequent use of mini blog services by customers.

Management system can also include systems as described in prior figures e.g. . Datastores can include functionality as described in relation to prior figures e.g. including any one or combination of categories datastore associations datastore publishers datastore content repository credentials datastore and or metadata datastore . Publisher network interface can include authorization interface content interface and API interface .

Areas of emphasis can include generic and or category specific ratings. A set of ratings can include any one or combination of fan ratings e.g. followers likes etc. interaction rating e.g. business posts customer posts about the business and conversations with customers search rating e.g. search engine result page rank keywords etc. ad success rating conversion rate impressions etc. buzz rating e.g. news mentions PR mentions etc. and or satisfaction rating e.g. review sentiment star ratings review site ratings multiple reviews by a single persona etc. . In some embodiments recommendations can be given to increase ratings. In one embodiment data used to determine the rating can be seen e.g. number of followers number of post likes etc. when the rating is selected for explanation e.g. clicking on a hyperlink to show a support page for the rating .

Management system can include client network interface engines datastores and publisher network interface . Client network interface can include interfaces as described above in relation to . In addition report interface can provide area of emphasis ratings of the business. In some embodiments report interface can also provide area of emphasis ratings of competitors and or categories of the business. Corrective action interface can provide suggested actions to increase ratings of areas of emphasis. Corrected action interface can receive approved actions and cause engines from to implement the actions. In some embodiments dashboard interface can display a summary comparison of the business compared with competitors and or the category as a whole. Dashboard interface can link to corrective action interface and or other interfaces and or to act upon the summary information.

Engines can include review analysis engine customer engagement analysis engine listing analysis system scoring system with comparison system reporting system and billing system . Review analysis engine can analyze publisher content to that includes review information to provide statistics that include sentiment rating star rating numerical rating attribute rating etc. Customer engagement analysis engine can analyze publisher content to representing interactions with customers to determine statistics regarding publisher content to . In one embodiment the statistics gathered are based at least in part on publisher specific criteria e.g. likes are counted on social websites comments are counted on company blogs etc. to prepare a group of statistics. Statistics can be stored in statistics datastore . Listing analysis system can analyze publisher content to representing business listings and mentions e.g. search engine ranking press release mentions news articles etc. to prepare a group of statistics.

Scoring system can retrieve statistics from statistics store and prepare a set of ratings for areas of emphasis. In some embodiments this can be based at least in part on a determined business category. Using statistics gathered by review analysis engine customer engagement analysis engine and listing analysis system scoring system can prepare ratings for a business of areas of emphasis e.g. business marketing tasks business engagement efforts etc. which in some embodiments could be related to a category of the business. In some embodiments the formula used to calculate ratings can depend on the category e.g. an exterminator may need to interact with potential customers more frequently than a roofer . The scoring system can repeat the ratings for multiple businesses in a category to determine competitor scores and average category values for ratings. The scores can be stored in scored business datastore . A comparison system can help identify areas of improvement and competitive advantages. The comparison system can also provide recommendations to capitalize on the competitive advantages e.g. create a post lauding the company for high ratings and to improve low areas e.g. increase frequency of social media interaction .

Reporting system can provide reports to of scores to keep a business representative updated on progress. Reports to can include suggested actions and or reminders of actions to implement to achieve higher ratings. The reports can include links to interfaces to help perform and or approve the actions.

Billing system can manage payment authorization and use of services. In one embodiment billing system can require payment before use of a service or implementation of suggestions.

Datastores and publisher network interface can operate as described in conjunction with . The publisher network interface can also use API interface to receive notifications of new publisher content to 

Management system can also include systems as described in prior figures e.g. . Datastores can include functionality as described in relation to prior figures e.g. including any one or combination of categories datastore associations datastore publishers datastore content repository credentials datastore and or metadata datastore . Publisher network interface can include authorization interface content interface and API interface . If content translations are necessary content can first be presented to content translation system before sending content through publisher network interface .

Management system can include client network interface engines datastores and publisher network interface . The client network interface can include interfaces described in including corrective action interface that is configured to provide recommendations to fix the determined negative attributes. In some embodiments online publisher correction recommendations can be implemented by management system e.g. hard to find address attribute can be corrected through additional business listings using keywords from customer searches .

Engines can include content analysis engine lexical analysis engine sentiment analysis engine attribute rating engine with ranking system reporting system and billing system . Content analysis engine can identify publisher content to that includes customer experiences with a business. Lexical analysis engine can process the identified content to determine attributes identified in the customer experiences. Sentiment analysis engine can determine customer sentiment about the identified attributes. Attributes and sentiment can be stored in attribute datastore and associated with the business. Attribute rating engine can compile the attributes with sentiment and provide a summary of customer impressions of the business attributes with sentiment. Ranking system can identify strong customer sentiments and or frequently identified sentiments. The analysis can be repeated for other businesses which in some embodiments could be in the same category including competitors to the business. Strong competitors can be identified and stored in competitor datastore . Reporting system can provide a summary of attributes with sentiment about any one or combination of the business competitors and or the category in general.

Billing system can manage payment authorization and use of services as described in . In some embodiments billing system can charge for each access to a service.

Datastores and publisher network interface can operate as described in conjunction with . The publisher network interface can also use API interface to receive notifications of new publisher content to 

In one embodiment a customer writes a review about a doughnut shop and publishes it on a review website. The review website notifies management system of the new review via API interface . Content analysis engine filters review information to provide a text of the review to lexical analysis engine . Lexical analysis engine can identify adjectives and nouns that describe the business. Lexical analysis engine can determine attributes represented by the adjectives and nouns. Sentiment analysis engine can review the context around the adjective and nouns to determine whether a positive negative or neutral tone is used with the attribute. The results can be stored in a database of attributes and associated with the business. Reporting system can create an updated report to send to client .

Management system can also include systems as described in prior figures e.g. . Datastores can include functionality as described in relation to prior figures e.g. including any one or combination of categories datastore associations datastore publishers datastore content repository credentials datastore and or metadata datastore . Publisher network interface can include authorization interface content interface and API interface .

A business may provide uniquely identifying information to a management system e.g. management system in . The management system can provide a list of publishers. In some embodiments the management system matches the business to a category with which the business and category share common attributes e.g. a tax service can be associated with an accountants category . Based on this match the management system can provide a list of publishers that have been determined to include audiences relevant to the category.

Content acceptable by the list of publishers can be gathered into a list of content needed by the management system for publishing to the publishers. This list of content can be duplicated so that repetition of content is avoided e.g. a small version of an image in a first file format and larger version of an image in a second file format can be condensed into a larger version of an image in any one of multiple formats . This superset of content can then be requested from a representative of the business. Upon receiving at least a portion of the superset of content the management system can publish the portion of content through one or more publishers. If needed content can be translated from one format to another by the management system.

For example a business representative provides a management system uniquely identifying information of a business name Joy of Teeth an address 123 North Street San Francisco Calif. 94103 and a product summary of preventative service and maintenance of human teeth. The management system can then retrieve a list of publishers . According to certain embodiments using the uniquely identifying information the management system can match the business to a category of dentist and the management system can then retrieve a list of publishers associated with the category of dentist.

The management system can then compile the superset of content to request from the business representative. The management system can determine that the Facebook publisher requires an avatar image picture of the business and contact information as seen by the lines between and . The LinkedIn publisher requires a business picture and contact information as seen by the lines between and . The Yellow Pages publisher requires an avatar contact information specialties graduate school information and hours of operation as seen by the lines between and . The WebDR.com publisher requires contact information and graduate school information as seen by the lines between and . The BestDentists.com publisher requires a business picture graduate school and hours of operation as seen by the lines between and . The HalloweenCostumes.us publisher requires only contact information as seen by the lines between and . Based on these determinations the management system can compile a superset of content that includes an avatar business picture contact information specialties graduate school and hours of operation content. This superset of content can be requested and received by the management system from the business representative. Once received the management system can store the content. The stored content can then be provided to the publishers and translated if needed. The management can then cause the publishers to publish the received content and monitor the content to ensure the integrity of the content.

In another example a business representative provides a management system uniquely identifying information of a business name Water Works an address 123 South Street San Francisco Calif. 94103 and a product summary of plumbing and HVAC services. The management system can then retrieve a list of publishers . According to certain embodiments using the uniquely identifying information the management system can match the business to a category of plumber and the management system can then retrieve a list of publishers associated with the category of plumber.

The management system can then compile the superset of content to request from the business representative. The management system can determine that the Facebook publisher requires an avatar image picture of the business and contact information as seen by the lines between and . The LinkedIn publisher requires a business picture and contact information as seen by the lines between and . The Yellow Pages publisher requires an avatar contact information bond information home or commercial designation and hourly rate as seen by the lines between and . The PlumbersList.com publisher requires contact information and home or commercial designation as seen by the lines between and . The DIYHelp.com publisher requires a business picture home or commercial designation and hourly rate as seen by the lines between and . The LocalNews.com publisher requires only contact information and hourly rate as seen by the lines between and . Based on these determinations the management system can compile a superset of content that includes an avatar business picture contact information bond information home or commercial designation and hourly rate. This superset of content can be requested and received by the management system from the business representative. Once received the management system can store the content. The stored content can then be provided to the publishers and translated if needed. The management can then cause the publishers to publish the received content and monitor the content to ensure the integrity of the content.

In another example a business representative provides a management system uniquely identifying information of a business name CPA 4 You an address 123 West Street San Francisco Calif. 94103 and a product summary of tax forensic accounting and payroll services. The management system can then retrieve a list of publishers . According to certain embodiments using the uniquely identifying information the management system can match the business to a category of accountant and the management system can then retrieve a list of publishers associated with the category of accountant.

The management system can then compile the superset of content to request from the business representative. The management system can determine that the Facebook publisher requires an avatar image picture of the business and contact information as seen by the lines between and . The LinkedIn publisher requires a business picture and contact information as seen by the lines between and . The Yellow Pages publisher requires an avatar contact information specialties example clients and license information as seen by the lines between and . The LocalCPA.com publisher requires contact information and example clients as seen by the lines between and . The InvestSite.com publisher requires a business picture and license information as seen by the lines between and . The LOLCatz.com publisher requires only contact information as seen by the lines between and . Based on these determinations the management system can compile a superset of content that includes an avatar business picture contact information bond information home or commercial designation and hourly rate. This superset of content can be requested and received by the management system from the business representative. Once received the management system can store the content. The stored content can then be provided to the publishers and translated if needed. The management can then cause the publishers to publish the received content and monitor the content to ensure the integrity of the content.

In various embodiments the list of publishers which in some embodiments are associated with a category can be determined by multiple methods. In some embodiments the list of publishers is input by a user. In some embodiments a demographic assessment can be used to determine sites. In some embodiments sites can be added to or removed from the list of publishers based on successes seen by other clients. For example if a business representative adds a site as a publisher the management system can gather statistics e.g. conversions campaign successes traffic etc. on the publisher and determine that the site is useful to recommend to other businesses which in some embodiments may be associated with the same or similar categories . For example it may have been unobvious to associate the accountant category from directory with a LOLCatz.com publisher in account publishers . However there may be an unknown correlation between people searching for accountants and a desire for humor that becomes known after a first accountant requests the management system to add the publisher to their stable of publishers.

In some embodiments the review response engine and or tracking engine can use a persona matching engine to determine if a user behind an account that posted a review shares a common persona e.g. a same person wrote both reviews . The persona matching engine can use lexical analysis e.g. word choice writing level common mistakes etc. post metadata e.g. IP address account name etc. and other review information to determine a strong enough correlation of a same persona e.g. characteristics ratings exceed a threshold . If a common person is found prior interactions with other accounts can influence the determination of proposed responses e.g. labeling as spam instead of sending an engagement offer .

For example a management system can determine new negative review was posted. Review response engine can analyze negative review for content e.g. find the complaint within the negative review tone etc. and metadata e.g. IP address time of posting etc. . Using the analysis persona matching engine can attempt to match the review to other reviews to determine more information about the reviewer e.g. a serial complainer who attempts to get free stuff a generally positive reviewer who had a bad experience etc. . Based on the analysis and determined persona review response engine can retrieve potential responses from response database .

Proposed responses can include responding to the reviewer with a public apology or a private invitation to contact a business representative and or by sending an engagement offer. A business representative can choose to send an engagement offer and select proposed action to be implemented by review response engine and tracking engine . The engagement offer can include an offer for a refund and or an offer for a discount. These actions can include tracking information placed by tracking engine to determine effectiveness use and or identity of the reviewer. Tracking engine can store tracking information in tracking database . Tracking engine can also provide action information to persona matching engine allowing persona matching engine to match up two identities e.g. accounts etc. to one persona. Tracking engine can also provide follow up actions . Examples of follow up actions include identifying the original transaction for negative review and identifying a customer providing negative review . Using this information a customer can be identified for future reference including special treatment or refusal of service .

Proposed responses can also include publisher requests to delete the post as spam improper and or a violation of the publisher terms of use. A business representative can choose to select publisher actions instead of directly interacting with the reviewer. The business representative can request the review response engine contact the publisher e.g. through an API through automated form submission etc. to report the defects of negative review and or request deletion. Tracking engine can monitor submission and verify removal of negative review during a follow up . In some embodiments persona matching engine analyzes negative review and provides evidence to be used in requests sent to the publisher.

Proposed responses actions and follow ups can be tailored according to a determined category of the business in certain embodiments. In some embodiments proposed responses can be tailored to a business category. For example a suggested response from a hardware store can include a coupon while a suggested response from a high end restaurant can include an invitation to move to the front of the queue. In some embodiments proposed response text can be provided based on the business category. For example an apology for a hardware store may include a reference to low prices. However an apology for a high end restaurant may include text apologizing for falling short of their aim for a perfect dining experience. In some embodiments the proposed responses and potential actions are ranked according to a factor e.g. likelihood of success likelihood of customer satisfaction score etc. . In one embodiment multiple proposed responses can be combined together. For example a hardware store can send an apology with an offer of a refund or a discount while pursuing publisher removal.

Opportunity engine can operate in conjunction with persona matching engine to determine additional opportunity information. Persona matching engine can identify a plurality of content that likely originated from a persona e.g. a user having multiple accounts a public relations firm operating under a rulebook a search engine optimization company working for a competitor a competitor writing negative content about the business . Based on a persona matching engine analysis rabid fan personas can be identified across accounts. Audiences can be more accurately measured e.g. a few rabid fans with many accounts can look like a crowd of fans .

Opportunity database can be loaded with opportunities based on input and or experiential data. In some embodiments category opportunity data is entered by users familiar with the category. In some embodiments category opportunity data is determined at least in part from historical analysis. For example tracking engine can determine that weekly postings on a blog provide a reasonable audience for outdoor retailers based on an amount of effort required.

For example content analysis engine can retrieve publisher content from publishers e.g. Facebook LinkedIn Yellow Pages YouTube News Aggregators Advertising Campaign Providers etc. . Content analysis engine can analyze publisher content for business statistics to which in some embodiments may be related to areas of emphasis of a business category . Business statistics can include likes followers comments rankings conversions mentions review ratings etc. Statistics can be measured in frequency volume total counts average median maximums minimums summary statistics individual measurements etc. Statistics to can be stored in content statistics database . Scoring system can retrieve business specific statistics to from content statistics database . Using algorithms specific to areas of emphasis and the business category in some embodiments scoring system can determine ratings to . Ratings can be stored compiled and provided in reports about any one or combination of the business itself competitors and or category averages or other statistics like maximums minimums means etc. .

Ratings can include fan ratings interaction ratings search rankings ad success ratings buzz ratings and satisfaction ratings. A fan rating can be compiled from business specific statistics including Facebook likes YouTube followers and Twitter followers. In one embodiment a rating can be determined based on exceeding a threshold. In the embodiment shown a threshold minimum of 1200 actions from a selection of Facebook likes YouTube followers and Twitter followers can result in a score of 10. The thresholds can be changed based on a business category according to some embodiments. In some embodiments the thresholds are dynamically altered based on competitor statistics during the rated time period.

An interaction rating can be compiled from content statistics including comments per week forum posts per week and videos per week. In an embodiment a rating can be determined based on an equation. In the embodiment shown an interaction rating is calculated by the equation of 

Search ranking can be compiled from search engine result page rankings. In some embodiments a ranking can be determined by fitting statistics to a probability distribution e.g. normal curve of competitors . In the embodiment shown the business ranked 15th among 100 competitors. Fit to a normal curve and rounded to the nearest whole rating the search rating is a 2 out of 10.

Advertising success rating can be determined based on a conversion rate. In an embodiment a ranking can be determined by a single statistic. In the embodiment shown a conversion rate statistic is multiplied by 100 and used as a rating with a ceiling of 10. The conversion rate of 0.05 results in advertising success rating of 5.

Buzz rating can include publisher mentions other than provided by the business representatives and media article mentions. In one embodiment a rating can be determined by a maximum statistic. For example buzz rating can be based on a maximum perceived influence of a source of the mention. A mention in a major media can be worth a 9 or 10 while a mention in a trade magazine can be worth a 5. In the embodiment shown a mention was made in a gaming magazine with very good circulation which is worth a 7 rating. Other media mentions were less than the 7 rating and so do not contribute to the rating.

Satisfaction rating can include review statistics and business ratings. In one embodiment a rating can be an average of a set of normalized statistics e.g. review ratings published by publishers . In the embodiment shown the business has a BBB rating of A a review of 4 of 5 stars and review rating of 70 out of 100 points. Scoring system can normalize the scores to a 9 for the BBB rating 8 for the star rating and 7 for the points rating. Averaging the normalized rating results in an 8 rating for scoring system .

Areas of emphasis selected for ratings can be based on a category of the business in some embodiments. For example a disaster cleanup category may not have a buzz rating but a bakery category can have such a rating. Ratings calculations can also vary with each category. For example a disaster cleanup can have a different calculation for fans as they receive very little compared to the bakery category.

In the embodiment shown an American fare restaurant is selected for evaluation. Category attribute information of restaurants includes general attributes of food atmosphere service price and craving. Review is analyzed by attribute analysis engines from a publisher noting attributes of food based on the noun food atmosphere based on the noun atmosphere and music service based on the adjective romantic and price based on the description of trendy . The food attribute includes the positive sentiment of flavorful. The service attribute includes the positive sentiment of romantic. The atmosphere attribute includes the negative sentiment of loud bad and Sci Fi vomit. These attributes and sentiments can be stored for later combination with attributes from other content.

Article from a publisher is analyzed by attribute analysis engines noting attributes of food based on the food and asparagus nouns atmosphere based on the noise booths and theme nouns and craving based on the crave verb and fruit tart noun . The food attribute includes the positive sentiment of amazing and the neutral sentiment of asparagus. The atmosphere attribute includes the positive sentiment of intimate and negative sentiment of noise and over sparkly metal. The crave attribute includes the positive sentiment of crave. These attributes and sentiments can be stored for later combination with attributes from other content.

Rating can be analyzed by attribute analysis engines noting attributes of food atmosphere speed and service based on the attribute ratings. Sentiment analysis can determine customer reactions to the attributes based on the star ratings. Service and food attributes can have strong positive sentiment. Atmosphere can have a negative sentiment due to the lower 2 of 5 star rating. Speed can have a neutral sentiment with a 3 of 5 star rating. These attributes and sentiments can be stored for later combination with attributes from other content.

General attributes e.g. attributes from the category information and specific attributes e.g. attributes discovered upon content analysis can be rated and reported to a business representative. In the embodiment shown a combined rating of food can be a 10 due to the strong positive sentiment toward the food from the analyzed content and . Atmosphere rating can be a 2 due to the more negative sentiment toward the atmosphere in attributes and . Service rating can be an 8 based on the good positive sentiment associated with romantic. Price rating may not be rated because a lack of information that only includes the sentiment of trendy. Crave rating can be a 7 due to the strong positive sentiment in one review. Speed rating can be rated a 5 due to the neutral rating of the attribute in one review.

Management system can continue to monitor selected publishers for problems. Publisher listings and can identify the publisher published details descriptions errors and invitations to fix any problems. For example Urban Spoon listing can show the published details and description with a list of errors. In the embodiment shown a fix request is in progress and no further invitations are available. Play in the Bay listing can show the published details and description with a list of errors. Listing can also include invitations to fix the errors or mark the errors as acceptable. Facebook listing can indicate that no listing is present and can recommend publishing by clicking a fix button. SF News listing can indicate listing details and description. Listing can also indicate the published information is correct and include an invitation to view the listing by clicking a view listing button.

When a business representative accepts an invitation through the dashboard the management system can implement it. In an embodiment the management system can communicate with a publisher to cause a correction or publication to be achieved. The management system can communicate with the publisher through an API to cause publication. If the publisher does not have an API the management system can imitate a user and perform form submission. In some embodiments a preview is generated for approval.

Review response section can provide options for responses to positive or negative reviews. A business representative can review positive review summary and select a potential option for responding to the positive review. In the embodiment shown two options are presented by the management system based on the positive review and business category. A send thanks option can cause the management system to compose a response based on the review content. The response can be presented to a business representative for editing or can be directly published without editing. A business representative can also review negative review summary and select a proposed response. In the embodiment shown two options are presented by the management system based on the negative review. A request removal option can cause the management system to contact the publisher and request removal for reasons including the ones shown in the notes column. An apology response can cause the management system to contact the publisher and post an apology to associate with the negative review. The apology can be composed by the management system based on the negative review and or business category.

Opportunity section can provide options for engaging with customers who are identified by management system based on publishers and in some embodiments a business category . The management system can determine suggested opportunities based on timing e.g. purchases habits holidays etc. media mentions social interaction etc. Individual opportunity listing can include options to reward an individual that contributes to business content. The management system can select options based on the individual contribution and in some embodiments business category . In the embodiment shown the management system has determined that an appropriate response would be to give the reviewer a coupon. A second suggestion is to further engage the reviewer with a campaign such as by inviting the reviewer to share a coupon to determine an advertising reach of the reviewer. Tracking can be used on the opportunities to determine successful engagement. Engagement success can be used to influence future recommendations in the category or otherwise.

A persona matching engine can aid in the determination of important customers that influence and or publish content. For example a persona matching engine can determine that reviews from multiple publishers originate from a same persona. By determining the persona the management system can determine the influence of the persona. The persona can be given greater rewards than would have been offered to a single account. The persona matching engine can also help minimize the effect of a frequent negative reviewer by helping publishers identify spam from a same source.

Group opportunity listing can include options to engage with customers through a publisher. In the embodiment shown the management system has determined that a new social media post would provide needed customer engagement. The management system has determined based on the business category and publisher that three options can be useful. A first option can be to allow a business representative to create a new post. A second option can be to allow the management system to suggest a topic and or even provide content for the post. A third option can be to create a coupon to share through the publisher. Tracking can be used on the opportunities to determine successful engagement. Engagement success can be used to influence future recommendations in the category or otherwise. A business representative can select one or more of the options. The management system can then contact the publisher and implement the selection.

The management system can rate published business information according to areas of emphasis. The management system can retrieve and analyze publisher content including the content itself and metadata about the content to determine ratings of areas of emphasis as described in conjunction with . Business ratings can be displayed as part of the dashboard. Ratings can include areas of emphasis that are selected by the management system based on a business category associated with the business in some embodiments. For the embodiment shown a casual pizza restaurant business can include areas of emphasis of a fan rating interaction rating search rating buzz rating ads rating and an overall rating see a description of for more information on ratings . Information behind the ratings can be provided as part of the dashboard including rating distributions social media mentions best scores and words with sentiment describing the business.

In various embodiments the management system can provide a comparison of the areas of emphasis with a category average and or competitors . The management system can retrieve and analyze publisher content including the content itself and metadata about the content about businesses to determine ratings of areas of emphasis as described in conjunction with . Business category ratings can be shown for comparison to business ratings . Differences in ratings can highlight weaknesses and or strengths among the areas of emphasis selected. Information behind the category ratings can be given including category rating distributions category social media mentions average best category scores and or words with sentiment describing businesses within category. Top competitor scores can also be given to enable further comparisons between the business and competitors. In some embodiments clicking on a statistic can cause an informational screen that explains the statistic and the content behind the statistic.

The management system can analyze publisher content to determine business attributes and customer sentiment regarding the attributes. The management system can retrieve and analyze publisher content including the content itself and metadata about the content about businesses to determine business attributes and customer sentiment about the attributes as described in conjunction with . In the embodiment shown attributes and sentiment are shown in the words with sentiment describing the business. Customers have a positive view of pizza nachos service and wings. Customers have a negative perception of location and sound. In comparison the casual pizza restaurant customers in general have a positive sentiment toward pizza sauce salad and atmosphere. The casual pizza restaurant customers in general have a negative sentiment toward service and location.

If in block the business characteristics do not match a business category the business characteristics can be compared with other businesses in block . If the business characteristics match with a second business exceeds a threshold the business can be determined to match with the category of the second business in block . In block the business can then be associated with the category of the second business.

If in block the business characteristics do not match other business characteristics a business representative can provide a manual selection of a category in block . The business can then be associated with the category in block .

After associating the business with a category in block the management system can select publishers associated with the category in block . The publishers can be proposed to business representative for approval. In block the management system can publish business information with the selected publishers.

In block the management system can then monitor publishers content for changes. In block the management system can detect content changes to publisher content. If a change is detected in block then the management system can warn the business representative in block . In block if a business representative chooses to restore content the process returns to block to translate in block and republish content with the publisher in block . If the content is not to be restored in block the modified content can be selected to be used in future monitoring in block .

If an administrative response type is possible and selected in block the management system can request publisher action in block e.g. removal deletion deactivation etc. . If the management system detects the publisher performs the action in block the management system can go back to monitoring publisher content in block . If the management system does not detect publisher action in block the management system can go back and alert the user to publisher inaction in block and provide alternative potential responses. Publisher action can be requested in publisher defined situations. For example a publisher may allow requests for removal for spam terms of service violations harassment copyright infringement competitor reviews etc. However the publisher may or may not honor such requests.

If a personal response type is possible in a public response in block or private response in block can be used. In block a public response can be posted along with the review. Such a post can include an apology and or an invitation as described in conjunction with . In block a private response can be sent directly to the reviewer. Such a response can include an apology and or an invitation as described in conjunction with . If no offer is provided in block the management system can return to monitoring publisher content in block . If an offer is provided in block a personalized offer can be provided with tracking information in block . If the offer gets used in block the customer behind the review and or the transaction can be identified in block and the management system can return to monitoring content in block . If the offer is not used in block and the offer is not expired in block a reminder of the personalized offer can be resent in block . If the offer has expired in block then the management system can return to monitoring content in block .

If a rating is selected to be performed in block then areas of emphasis can be selected for ratings in block . In some embodiments the areas of emphasis can be selected for ratings based at least in part on a category associated with the business. Rating rules e.g. formulas for computing the ratings thresholds for the ratings etc. can be retrieved for the areas of emphasis and executed in block using the determined statistics from block . In some embodiments the rating rules may be category specific. The ratings can then be stored for later retrieval in block . If a competitor report is not to be compiled in block more publisher content can be retrieved in block . If a competitor report is selected to be compiled in block a list of competitors can be selected in block . In some embodiments the list of competitors may be based at least in part on the business category. If the competitor ratings are not available in block each selected competitor can be processed through blocks to . Once competitor ratings are available in block competitor ratings can be retrieved from storage in block . A competitor report showing ratings from any one or combination of competitors category averages and or the business can be compiled and sent to a business representative in block .

If attribute ratings are selected to be performed in block then attributes can be selected for ratings in block . In some embodiments the attributes may be generic attributes selected for ratings based at least in part on a category associated with the business. Rating rules e.g. formulas for computing the ratings thresholds for the ratings etc. can be retrieved for the attributes and executed in block using the determined sentiment from block . In some embodiments the rating rules may be category specific. The ratings can then be stored for later retrieval in block . If a competitor report is not to be compiled in block more publisher content can be retrieved in block . If a competitor report is selected to be compiled in block a list of competitors which may be in the business category in some embodiments can be selected in block . If the competitor ratings are not available in block each selected competitor can be processed through blocks to . Once competitor ratings are available in block competitor ratings can be retrieved from storage in block . A competitor report showing attributes and or ratings from any one or combination of competitors category averages and or the business can be compiled and sent to a business representative in block .

In block user identification characteristics can be matched against other user identification characteristics of past reviews. For example user characteristics can include account information account name avatar bio description etc. internet information IP address IP address block browser information etc. personally identifying information e.g. address name phone number etc. and or tracking information e.g. cookies session information etc. . Matches can be full or partial matches and weighted according to the depth of the match e.g. a full or partial match .

In block the management system can match a context of a review to context of a past review or set of past reviews. Measurements of context can detect artificial diversity between reviews. For example if a set of reviews is improbable because a set of reviews is foreign IP addresses the reviews do not duplicate attributes and include very negative content then the reviews can be part of a negative campaign by a competitor. Context can include timeframes intersections of review content e.g. attributes that the content covers intersections of Internet information and other measurements of diversity.

If a match is found in block then the accounts can be determined to share a persona. An association between the users and or accounts can be formed in block and the management system can then return to monitoring publisher content in block

If a match is not found in block the management system can test for an inference that accounts share a persona in block . If no inference is found then the management system can return to block . If an inference is found in block the inference can be stored in block . Inferences can be reported to the publishers business representatives and or remain in the system. In some embodiments the inferences can be used to flag accounts that appear similar but need more evidence for confirmation. If a match is determined in block an association between the users and or accounts can be formed in block and the management system can then return to monitoring publisher content in block .

Referring next to an exemplary environment with which embodiments may be implemented is shown with a computer system that can be used by a designer to design for example without limitation electronic designs. The computer system can include a computer keyboard a network router a printer and a monitor . The monitor processor and keyboard are part of a computer system which can be a laptop computer desktop computer handheld computer mainframe computer etc. The monitor can be a CRT flat screen etc.

A designer can input commands into the computer using various input devices such as a mouse keyboard track ball touch screen etc. If the computer system comprises a mainframe a designer can access the computer using for example without limitation a terminal or terminal interface. Additionally the computer system may be connected to a printer and a server using a network router which may connect to the Internet or a WAN.

The server may for example without limitation be used to store additional software programs and data. In some embodiments software implementing the systems and methods described herein can be stored on a storage medium in the server . Thus the software can be run from the storage medium in the server . In another embodiment software implementing the systems and methods described herein can be stored on a storage medium in the computer . Thus the software can be run from the storage medium in the computer system . Therefore in this embodiment the software can be used whether or not computer is connected to network router . Printer may be connected directly to computer in which case the computer system can print whether or not it is connected to network router .

With reference to an embodiment of a special purpose computer system is shown. The above methods may be implemented by computer program products that direct a computer system to perform the actions of the above described methods and components. Each such computer program product may comprise sets of instructions codes embodied on a computer readable medium that directs the processor of a computer system to perform corresponding actions. The instructions may be configured to run in sequential order or in parallel such as under different processing threads or in a combination thereof. After loading the computer program products on a general purpose computer system it is transformed into the special purpose computer system .

Special purpose computer system comprises a computer a monitor coupled to computer one or more additional user output devices optional coupled to computer one or more user input devices e.g. keyboard mouse track ball touch screen coupled to computer an optional communications interface coupled to computer a computer program product stored in a tangible computer readable memory in computer . Computer program product directs system to perform the above described methods. Computer may include one or more processors that communicate with a number of peripheral devices via a bus subsystem . These peripheral devices may include user output device s user input device s communications interface and a storage subsystem such as random access memory RAM and non volatile storage drive e.g. disk drive optical drive solid state drive which are forms of tangible computer readable memory.

Computer program product may be stored in non volatile storage drive or another computer readable medium accessible to computer and loaded into memory . Each processor may comprise a microprocessor such as a microprocessor from Intel or Advanced Micro Devices Inc. or the like. To support computer program product the computer runs an operating system that handles the communications of product with the above noted components as well as the communications between the above noted components in support of the computer program product . Exemplary operating systems include Windows or the like from Microsoft Corporation Solaris from Oracle LINUX UNIX and the like.

User input devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to input information to computer system . These may include a keyboard a keypad a mouse a scanner a digital drawing pad a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In various embodiments user input devices are typically embodied as a computer mouse a trackball a track pad a joystick wireless remote a drawing tablet a voice command system. User input devices typically allow a user to select objects icons text and the like that appear on the monitor via a command such as a click of a button or the like. User output devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to output information from computer . These may include a display e.g. monitor printers non visual displays such as audio output devices etc.

Communications interface provides an interface to other communication networks and devices and may serve as an interface to receive data from and transmit data to other systems WANs and or the Internet. Embodiments of communications interface typically include an Ethernet card a modem telephone satellite cable ISDN a asynchronous digital subscriber line DSL unit a FireWire interface a USB interface a wireless network adapter and the like. For example without limitation communications interface may be coupled to a computer network to a FireWire bus or the like. In other embodiments communications interface may be physically integrated on the motherboard of computer and or may be a software program or the like.

RAM and non volatile storage drive are examples of tangible computer readable media configured to store data such as computer program product embodiments of the present invention including executable computer code human readable code or the like. Other types of tangible computer readable media include floppy disks removable hard disks optical storage media such as CD ROMs DVDs bar codes semiconductor memories such as flash memories read only memories ROMs battery backed volatile memories networked storage devices and the like. RAM and non volatile storage drive may be configured to store the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of various embodiments of the present invention as described above.

Software instruction sets that provide the functionality of the present invention may be stored in RAM and non volatile storage drive . These instruction sets or code may be executed by the processor s . RAM and non volatile storage drive may also provide a repository to store data and data structures used in accordance with the present invention. RAM and non volatile storage drive may include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM to store of instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. RAM and non volatile storage drive may include a file storage subsystem providing persistent non volatile storage of program and or data files. RAM and non volatile storage drive may also include removable storage systems such as removable flash memory.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism to allow the various components and subsystems of computer to communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses or communication paths within the computer .

Specific details are given in the above description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it is understood that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Implementation of the techniques blocks steps and means described above may be done in various ways. For example these techniques blocks steps and means may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described above and or a combination thereof.

Also it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a swim diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a depiction may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software scripting languages firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages and or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware scripting language and or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage medium. A code segment or machine executable instruction may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a script a class or any combination of instructions data structures and or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters and or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a firmware and or software implementation the methodologies may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. Any machine readable medium tangibly embodying instructions may be used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example software codes may be stored in a memory. Memory may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor. As used herein the term memory refers to any type of long term short term volatile nonvolatile or other storage medium and is not to be limited to any particular type of memory or number of memories or type of media upon which memory is stored.

Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more memories for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term machine readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices and or various other storage mediums capable of storing that contain or carry instruction s and or data.

While the principles of the disclosure have been described above in connection with specific apparatuses and methods it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as limitation on the scope of the disclosure.

