---

title: Method, apparatus, and system for webgame interaction
abstract: Methods, apparatus, and systems for webgame interactions are provided. A first terminal sends a request for establishing a P2P channel to a second browser, when the first browser logs in to a webgame application on the first terminal. The P2P channel is established between the first browser and the second browser, after the first browser receives an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel from the second browser. The first browser uses the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data between the first browser and the second browser. An exemplary browser can include a requesting module, an establishing module, and a processing module. Another exemplary browser can include a receiving module, an obtaining module, a responding module, an establishing module, and a processing module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09550119&OS=09550119&RS=09550119
owner: TENCENT TECHNOLOGY (SHENZHEN) COMPANY LIMITED
number: 09550119
owner_city: Shenzhen
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20140228
---
This application is a continuation application of PCT Patent Application No. PCT CN2013 088341 filed on Dec. 2 2013 which claims priority to Chinese Patent Application No. 2013101131265 filed on Apr. 2 2013 the entire contents of all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The disclosure relates to the webgame field and more particularly relates to methods apparatus and systems for webgame interactions.

Webgame is a web browser based multiplayer interactive network game. Players do not need to download a client for playing a game but they can use the web browser to open a webpage to enter a game. Webgame communication is performed between the web and a server. Interactions between players are performed via the server.

Currently webgames use a communication mode including a B S browse server mode. This mode uses an application as the core to deploy servers in the network. Requests from the players and communications between players must go through an application server to complete. However this communication mode has drawbacks. Webgames cannot be directly connected and players cannot have p2p interaction and all communications interactions have to be transited through the server. This requires a high demanding for the server and results in great pressure on the server.

One aspect of the present disclosure includes a webgame interaction method by a first terminal. The first terminal sends a request for establishing a P2P channel to a second browser when the first browser logs in to a webgame application on the first terminal. The first terminal uses the first browser to access the webgame application and the first terminal performs the webgame interaction with a second terminal using the second browser to access the webgame application. The P2P channel is established between the first browser and the second browser after the first browser receives an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel from the second browser. The first browser uses the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data between the first browser and the second browser.

Another aspect of the present disclosure includes a webgame interaction method by a second terminal. The second browser receives a request for establishing a P2P channel sent from a first browser. The second terminal uses the second browser to access a webgame application and the second terminal performs the webgame interaction with a first terminal using the first browser to access the webgame application. The second browser obtains a configuration of the webgame application and returns an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel to the first browser when the configuration allows the P2P channel to be established between the second browser and the first browser. The P2P channel is established between the second browser and the first browser. The second browser uses the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data to the first browser.

Another aspect of the present disclosure includes a first browser for a webgame interaction. The first browser can include a requesting module an establishing module and a processing module. The requesting module is configured to send a request for establishing a P2P channel to a second browser when the first browser logs in to a webgame application and to receive an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel from the second browser. A first terminal uses the first browser to access the webgame application and the first terminal performs the webgame interaction with a second terminal using the second browser to access the webgame application. The establishing module is configured after the requesting module receives the accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel to establish the P2P channel between the first browser and the second browser. The processing module is configured to use the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data with the second browser.

Another aspect of the present disclosure includes a second browser for a webgame interaction. The second browser includes a receiving module an obtaining module a responding module an establishing module and a processing module. The receiving module is configured to receive a request for establishing a P2P channel sent from a first browser. A second terminal uses the second browser to access a webgame application and the second terminal performs the webgame interaction with a first terminal using the first browser to access the webgame application. The obtaining module is configured to obtain a configuration of the webgame application. The responding module is configured when the configuration allows the P2P channel to be established between the second browser and the first browser to return an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel to the first browser. The establishing module is configured to establish the P2P channel between the second browser and the first browser when the configuration allows the P2P channel to be established between the second browser and the first browser. The processing module is configured to use the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data to the first browser.

Other aspects or embodiments of the present disclosure can be understood by those skilled in the art in light of the description the claims and the drawings of the present disclosure.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Methods apparatus and systems for a webgame interaction are provided as shown in . The disclosed methods apparatus and systems can be implemented in an environment and or using a computer based system.

For example depicts an exemplary environment incorporating certain disclosed embodiments. As shown in environment may include a server a terminal or a client and or a communication network . The server and the client may be coupled through the communication network for information exchange such as obtaining web data. Although only one client and one server are shown in the environment any number of clients or servers may be included and other devices may also be included.

Communication network may include any appropriate type of communication network for providing network connections to the server and client or among multiple servers or clients . For example communication network may include the Internet or other types of computer networks or telecommunication networks either wired or wireless.

A terminal as used herein may refer to any appropriate user terminal with certain computing capabilities such as a personal computer PC a work station computer a hand held computing device tablet a smart phone or mobile phone or any other user side computing device. Such terminals can be used as a client device or a game client device as disclosed herein.

A server as used herein may refer to one or more server computers configured to provide certain server functionalities such as database management and search engines. A server may also include one or more processors to execute computer programs in parallel. In one embodiment the server can be used as a game server as desired.

Server and or client may be implemented on any appropriate computing platform. shows a block diagram of an exemplary computing system capable of implementing server and or client .

As shown in computing system may include a processor a storage medium a monitor a communication module a database and or peripherals . Certain devices may be omitted and other devices may be included.

Processor may include any appropriate processor or processors. Further processor can include multiple cores for multi thread or parallel processing. Storage medium may include memory modules such as ROM RAM flash memory modules and erasable and rewritable memory and mass storages such as CD ROM U disk and hard disk etc. Storage medium may store computer programs for implementing various processes when executed by processor .

Further peripherals may include I O devices such as keyboard and mouse and communication module may include network devices for establishing connections through the communication network . Database may include one or more databases for storing certain data and for performing certain operations on the stored data such as database searching.

Referring to an exemplary webgame interaction method is provided. The exemplary webgame interaction method can be used for a first terminal. The first terminal uses a first browser to access a webgame application and performs the webgame interaction with a second terminal using a second browser to access the webgame application.

In Step when the first browser logs in to the webgame application on the first terminal the first browser sends a request for establishing a P2P channel to the second browser.

In Step after the first browser receives an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel from the second browser the first browser establishes the P2P channel between the first browser and the second browser.

In Step the first browser uses the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data to the second browser.

In one embodiment the first terminal or the second terminal can be a computer a laptop a mobile phone a tablet PC and or other suitable electronic devices without limitation.

The webgame application can include a web based game and users of the first terminal or the second terminal can login to a corresponding webpage via a browser to enter the webgame. For example a user can input an URL uniform resource locator in an address bar of the browser to enter the webgame. Generally the webgame can be a game interacted by multiple people parties. For example a user of a first terminal and a user of a second terminal can respectively login to a webgame to perform a game interaction.

In one embodiment when the first browser logs in the webgame application on the first terminal the first browser can send the request for establishing the P2P channel to the second browser. For example the first browser can provide an interface for establishing the P2P channel. When the first browser receives a request for calling the interface from the webgame application the request for establishing the P2P channel can be sent to the second browser.

For example the interface provided by the first browser can include an API i.e. application programming interface and the API can function that a browser can request to establish a P2P channel with another browser. When the user of the first terminal logs in the webgame via the first browser the webgame can call the API provided by the first browser to initiate the procedure for establishing the P2P channel.

In another embodiment when the first browser receives a refusing response to the request for establishing the P2P channel from the second browser the webgame application server can be used to transmit the webgame application data between the first browser and the second browser.

In the disclosed webgame interaction method by a first terminal the first terminal sends a request for establishing a P2P channel to a second browser when the first browser logs in to a webgame application on the first terminal. The first terminal uses the first browser to access the webgame application and the first terminal performs the webgame interaction with a second terminal using the second browser to access the webgame application. The P2P channel is established between the first browser and the second browser after the first browser receives an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel from the second browser. The first browser uses the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data between the first browser and the second browser. In this manner browsers for logging in webgames can be directly connected and users can have p2p game interaction without using servers to transit. Cost for the servers can be reduced. Webgames can thus use browsers to share resources and to perform p2p transmission.

Referring to another exemplary webgame interaction method is provided. The exemplary webgame interaction method can be used for a second terminal. The second terminal uses a second browser to access a webgame application and performs the webgame interaction with a first terminal using a first browser to access the webgame application.

In Step the second browser receives a request for establishing a P2P channel sent from the first browser.

In Step the second browser obtains a configuration of the webgame application and returns an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel to the first browser when the configuration allows the P2P channel to be established between the second browser and the first browser.

In Step the P2P channel is established between the second browser and the first browser. In Step the second browser uses the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data to the first browser.

In one embodiment the first terminal or the second terminal can be a computer a laptop a mobile phone a tablet PC and or other suitable electronic devices without limitation.

The webgame application can include a web based game and users of the first terminal or the second terminal can login to a corresponding webpage via a browser to enter the webgame. For example a user can input an URL uniform resource locator in an address bar of the browser to enter the webgame. Generally the webgame can be a game interacted by multiple people parties. For example a user of a first terminal and a user of a second terminal can respectively login to a webgame to perform a game interaction.

In one embodiment the configuration of the webgame application can include a default configuration of the webgame application and or a configuration modified by a user of the second terminal. The configuration of the webgame application can include allowing the second browser to establish the P2P channel with a requester and or prohibiting the second browser to establish the P2P channel with the requester.

Generally one webgame has one default configuration. When the webgame is suitable for multiple user interactions by default the P2P channel can be allowed to be established with the requester. When the webgame is not suitable for multiple user interactions by default the P2P channel is prohibited to be established with the requester.

In another embodiment when the configuration prohibits the P2P channel to be established between the second browser and the first browser a refusing response can be returned to the request for establishing the P2P channel to the first browser.

In some embodiments the second browser can use the webgame application server to transmit the webgame application data to the first browser.

In the disclosed webgame interaction method by a second terminal the second browser receives a request for establishing a P2P channel sent from a first browser. The second terminal uses the second browser to access a webgame application and the second terminal performs the webgame interaction with a first terminal using the first browser to access the webgame application. The second browser obtains a configuration of the webgame application and returns an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel to the first browser when the configuration allows the P2P channel to be established between the second browser and the first browser. The P2P channel is established between the second browser and the first browser. The second browser uses the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data to the first browser. In this manner browsers for logging in webgames can be directly connected and users can have p2p game interaction without using servers to transit. Cost for the servers can be reduced. Webgames can thus use browsers to share resources and to perform p2p transmission.

Referring to another exemplary webgame interaction method is provided. The exemplary webgame interaction method can be used for a first terminal and a second terminal. The first terminal uses a first browser to access a webgame application and performs the webgame interaction with a second terminal using a second browser to access the webgame application.

In Step when the first browser logs in to the webgame application on the first terminal the first browser sends a request for establishing a P2P channel to the second browser.

For example the first browser can provide an interface for establishing the P2P channel. When the first browser receives a request for calling the interface from the webgame application the first browser sends the request for establishing the P2P channel to the second browser.

In Step the second browser receives a request for establishing a P2P channel sent from the first browser.

In Step the second browser obtains a configuration of the webgame application. When the configuration allows the P2P channel to be established between the second browser and the first browser Step is performed. When the configuration prohibits the P2P channel to be established between the second browser and the first browser Step is performed.

In Step an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel is returned to the first browser. The P2P channel can be established between the first browser and the second browser.

In Step the webgame application data is transmitted via the P2P channel between the first browser and the second browser. In some cases the webgame interaction method is then completed.

In Step the refusing response to the request for establishing the P2P channel is returned to the first browser.

In Step the webgame application data is transmitted via the webgame application server between the first browser and the second browser to complete the process.

In one embodiment the first terminal or the second terminal can be a computer a laptop a mobile phone a tablet PC and or other suitable electronic devices without limitation.

The webgame application can include a web based game and users of the first terminal or the second terminal can login to a corresponding webpage via a browser to enter the webgame. For example a user can input an URL uniform resource locator in an address bar of the browser to enter the webgame. Generally the webgame can be a game interacted by multiple people parties. For example a user of a first terminal and a user of a second terminal can respectively login to a webgame to perform a game interaction.

In one embodiment the configuration of the webgame application can include a default configuration of the webgame application and or a configuration modified by a user of the second terminal. The configuration of the webgame application can include allowing the second browser to establish the P2P channel with a requester and or prohibiting the second browser to establish the P2P channel with the requester.

Generally one webgame has one default configuration. When the webgame is suitable for multiple user interactions by default the P2P channel can be allowed to be established with the requester. When the webgame is not suitable for multiple user interactions by default the P2P channel is prohibited to be established with the requester.

Referring to a webgame interaction process can be described as an example. User A of the first terminal logs in a webgame via a browser and user B of a second terminal logs in a same webgame via a browser to perform a game interaction.

For example the webgame of the user A sends a request for establishing a P2P channel to the browser of user A. The browser of user A forwards the request to the browser of user B. The browser of user B inquires the webgame of user B about webgame configuration. The webgame of user B returns the webgame configuration to the browser of user B.

According to the webgame configuration when the browser of user B determines to allow the P2P channel to be established the P2P channel between the browser of user A and the browser of user B can be established. A message that the P2P channel is successfully established is returns respectively to the webgame of user A and the webgame of user B. Then the webgame of user A can perform P2P message interaction with the webgame of user B via the established P2P channel to transmit webgame related data and to perform the game interaction.

In the disclosed webgame interaction method by a first terminal the first terminal sends a request for establishing a P2P channel to a second browser when the first browser logs in to a webgame application on the first terminal. The first terminal uses the first browser to access the webgame application and the first terminal performs the webgame interaction with a second terminal using the second browser to access the webgame application. The P2P channel is established between the first browser and the second browser after the first browser receives an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel from the second browser. The first browser uses the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data between the first browser and the second browser. In this manner browsers for logging in webgames can be directly connected and users can have p2p game interaction without using servers to transit. Cost for the servers can be reduced. Webgames can thus use browsers to share resources and to perform p2p transmission.

Referring to an exemplary browser for a webgame interaction is provided. The exemplary browser can be a first browser on a first terminal. The first terminal uses the first browser to access a webgame application and performs the webgame interaction with a second terminal using a second browser to access the webgame application.

The exemplary first browser can include a requesting module an establishing module and or a processing module .

The requesting module is configured to send a request for establishing a P2P channel to the second browser when the first browser logs in to the webgame application and to receive an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel from the second browser.

The establishing module is configured after the requesting module receives the accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel to establish the P2P channel between the first browser and the second browser.

The processing module is configured to use the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data with the second browser.

In one embodiment the first terminal or the second terminal can be a computer a laptop a mobile phone a tablet PC and or other suitable electronic devices without limitation.

The webgame application can include a web based game and users of the first terminal or the second terminal can login to a corresponding webpage via a browser to enter the webgame. For example a user can input an URL uniform resource locator in an address bar of the browser to enter the webgame. Generally the webgame can be a game interacted by multiple people parties. For example a user of a first terminal and a user of a second terminal can respectively login to a webgame to perform a game interaction.

In some embodiment the requesting module is further configured to provide an interface for establishing the P2P channel and to send the request for establishing the P2P channel to the second browser when receiving a request for calling the interface from the webgame application.

In other embodiments the requesting module is further configured to receive a refusing response to the request for establishing the P2P channel from the second browser.

The processing module is further configured when the requesting module receives a refusing response to the request for establishing the P2P channel from the second browser to use the webgame application server to transmit the webgame application data to the second browser.

The exemplary first browser provided in can implement any methods as described herein. Repeated description in accordance with these methods is therefore omitted.

In the disclosed first browser for a webgame interaction the first terminal sends a request for establishing a P2P channel to a second browser when the first browser logs in to a webgame application on the first terminal. The first terminal uses the first browser to access the webgame application and the first terminal performs the webgame interaction with a second terminal using the second browser to access the webgame application. The P2P channel is established between the first browser and the second browser after the first browser receives an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel from the second browser. The first browser uses the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data between the first browser and the second browser. In this manner browsers for logging in webgames can be directly connected and users can have p2p game interaction without using servers to transit. Cost for the servers can be reduced. Webgames can thus use browsers to share resources and to perform p2p transmission.

Referring to an exemplary browser for a webgame interaction is provided. The exemplary browser can be a second browser installed on a second terminal. The second terminal uses the second browser to access a webgame application and performs the webgame interaction with a first terminal using a first browser to access the webgame application.

The exemplary second browser can include a requesting module an obtaining module a responding module an establishing module and or a processing module .

The receiving module is configured to receive a request for establishing a P2P channel sent from the first browser.

The responding module is configured when the configuration allows the P2P channel to be established between the second browser and the first browser to return an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel to the first browser.

The establishing module is configured to establish the P2P channel between the second browser and the first browser when the configuration allows the P2P channel to be established between the second browser and the first browser.

The processing module is configured to use the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data to the first browser.

In one embodiment the first terminal or the second terminal can be a computer a laptop a mobile phone a tablet PC and or other suitable electronic devices without limitation.

The webgame application can include a web based game and users of the first terminal or the second terminal can login to a corresponding webpage via a browser to enter the webgame. For example a user can input an URL uniform resource locator in an address bar of the browser to enter the webgame. Generally the webgame can be a game interacted by multiple people parties. For example a user of a first terminal and a user of a second terminal can respectively login to a webgame to perform a game interaction.

In one embodiment the configuration of the webgame application can include a default configuration of the webgame application and or a configuration modified by a user of the second terminal. The configuration of the webgame application can include allowing the second browser to establish the P2P channel with a requester and or prohibiting the second browser to establish the P2P channel with the requester.

In some embodiments the responding module is further configured when the configuration prohibits the P2P channel to be established between the second browser and the first browser to return a refusing response to the request for establishing the P2P channel to the first browser.

The processing module is further configured when the configuration prohibits the P2P channel to be established between the second browser and the first browser to use the webgame application server to transmit the webgame application data to the first browser.

The exemplary second browser provided in can implement any methods as described herein. Repeated description in accordance with these methods is therefore omitted.

In the disclosed second browser for a webgame interaction method the second browser receives a request for establishing a P2P channel sent from a first browser. The second terminal uses the second browser to access a webgame application and the second terminal performs the webgame interaction with a first terminal using the first browser to access the webgame application. The second browser obtains a configuration of the webgame application and returns an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel to the first browser when the configuration allows the P2P channel to be established between the second browser and the first browser. The P2P channel is established between the second browser and the first browser. The second browser uses the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data to the first browser. In this manner browsers for logging in webgames can be directly connected and users can have p2p game interaction without using servers to transit. Cost for the servers can be reduced. Webgames can thus use browsers to share resources and to perform p2p transmission.

Various embodiments also provide an exemplary first terminal for a webgame interaction. The exemplary first terminal can include the first terminal as depicted above e.g. as in . The exemplary first browser can include the first browser as depicted above e.g. as in . The exemplary first terminal and or first browser can be used to implement methods described in this disclosure.

In the disclosed first terminal for a webgame interaction the first terminal sends a request for establishing a P2P channel to a second browser when the first browser logs in to a webgame application on the first terminal. The first terminal uses the first browser to access the webgame application and the first terminal performs the webgame interaction with a second terminal using the second browser to access the webgame application. The P2P channel is established between the first browser and the second browser after the first browser receives an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel from the second browser. The first browser uses the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data between the first browser and the second browser. In this manner browsers for logging in webgames can be directly connected and users can have p2p game interaction without using servers to transit. Cost for the servers can be reduced. Webgames can thus use browsers to share resources and to perform p2p transmission.

Various embodiments also provide an exemplary second terminal for a webgame interaction. The exemplary second terminal can include the second terminal as depicted above e.g. as in . The exemplary second browser can include the second browser as depicted above e.g. as in . The exemplary second terminal and or second browser can be used to implement methods described in this disclosure.

In the disclosed second terminal for a webgame interaction method the second browser receives a request for establishing a P2P channel sent from a first browser. The second terminal uses the second browser to access a webgame application and the second terminal performs the webgame interaction with a first terminal using the first browser to access the webgame application. The second browser obtains a configuration of the webgame application and returns an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel to the first browser when the configuration allows the P2P channel to be established between the second browser and the first browser. The P2P channel is established between the second browser and the first browser. The second browser uses the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data to the first browser. In this manner browsers for logging in webgames can be directly connected and users can have p2p game interaction without using servers to transit. Cost for the servers can be reduced. Webgames can thus use browsers to share resources and to perform p2p transmission.

Referring to an exemplary webgame interaction system is provided. The exemplary webgame interaction system can include a first terminal including e.g. the first terminal in and a second terminal including e.g. the second terminal in .

The first terminal can be the same or different from the first terminal as depicted in . The second terminal can be the same or different from the second terminal as depicted in . The provided system can implement any methods as described above in this disclosure. Repeated detailed description is therefore omitted.

In the disclosed system for a webgame interaction the first terminal sends a request for establishing a P2P channel to a second browser when the first browser logs in to a webgame application on the first terminal. The first terminal uses the first browser to access the webgame application and the first terminal performs the webgame interaction with a second terminal using the second browser to access the webgame application. The P2P channel is established between the first browser and the second browser after the first browser receives an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel from the second browser. The first browser uses the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data between the first browser and the second browser. In this manner browsers for logging in webgames can be directly connected and users can have p2p game interaction without using servers to transit. Cost for the servers can be reduced. Webgames can thus use browsers to share resources and to perform p2p transmission.

In various embodiments the first browser and or the second browser can be installed in one or both of the first terminal and the second terminal. The first browser the second browser the first terminal and or the second terminal can be configured in a same or different system for webgame interactions.

Various embodiments also provide a computer storage medium. The computer storage medium may store a program. Execution of the program includes some or all of the steps of the exemplary methods for testing game data as disclosed herein.

The modules and or units included herein are described according to their functional logic but are not limited to the above descriptions as long as the modules units can implement corresponding functions. Further the specific name of each functional unit is used for distinguishing from on another without limiting the protection scope of the present disclosure. In various embodiments the disclosed modules units can be configured in one apparatus or configured in multiple apparatus as desired. The modules units disclosed herein can be integrated in one module unit apparatus or in multiple modules units apparatus. Each of the modules units disclosed herein can be divided into one or more sub modules units which can be recombined in any manner.

Note that suitable software and or hardware e.g. a universal hardware platform may be included and used in the disclosed methods and apparatus. For example the disclosed embodiments can be implemented by hardware only which alternatively can be implemented by software products only. The software products can be stored in a computer readable storage medium including e.g. ROM RAM magnetic disk optical disk etc. The software products can include suitable commands to enable a terminal device e.g. including a mobile phone a personal computer a server or a network device etc. to implement the disclosed embodiments.

The term comprising including or any other variants thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that the process method article or apparatus containing a number of elements also include not only those elements but also other elements that are not expressly listed or further include inherent elements of the process method article or apparatus. Without further restrictions the statement includes a does not exclude other elements included in the process method article or apparatus having those elements.

The terminology used in the description of the invention herein is for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used in the description of the invention and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Also as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow the meaning of in includes in and on unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment specific embodiment or the like in the singular or plural means that one or more particular features structures or characteristics described in connection with an embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. Thus the appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in a specific embodiment or the like in the singular or plural in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

The embodiments disclosed herein are exemplary only. The order by which the foregoing examples of the present disclosure are presented merely reflects the convenience of description. It does not imply the preference among the examples. Other applications advantages alternations modifications or equivalents to the disclosed embodiments are obvious to those skilled in the art and are intended to be encompassed within the scope of the present disclosure.

Without limiting the scope of any claim and or the specification examples of industrial applicability and certain advantageous effects of the disclosed embodiments are listed for illustrative purposes. Various alternations modifications or equivalents to the technical solutions of the disclosed embodiments can be obvious to those skilled in the art and can be included in this disclosure.

Methods apparatus and systems for a webgame interaction are provided. In the disclosed webgame interaction methods apparatus and systems the first terminal sends a request for establishing a P2P channel to a second browser when the first browser logs in to a webgame application on the first terminal. The first terminal uses the first browser to access the webgame application and the first terminal performs the webgame interaction with a second terminal using the second browser to access the webgame application. The P2P channel is established between the first browser and the second browser after the first browser receives an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel from the second browser. The first browser uses the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data between the first browser and the second browser. In this manner browsers for logging in webgames can be directly connected and users can have p2p game interaction without using servers to transit. Cost for the servers can be reduced. Webgames can thus use browsers to share resources and to perform p2p transmission.

In the disclosed webgame interaction methods apparatus and systems the second browser receives a request for establishing a P2P channel sent from a first browser. The second terminal uses the second browser to access a webgame application and the second terminal performs the webgame interaction with a first terminal using the first browser to access the webgame application. The second browser obtains a configuration of the webgame application and returns an accepting response to the request for establishing the P2P channel to the first browser when the configuration allows the P2P channel to be established between the second browser and the first browser. The P2P channel is established between the second browser and the first browser. The second browser uses the P2P channel to transmit webgame application data to the first browser. In this manner browsers for logging in webgames can be directly connected and users can have p2p game interaction without using servers to transit. Cost for the servers can be reduced. Webgames can thus use browsers to share resources and to perform p2p transmission.

