---

title: Displaying comments on a secret in an anonymous social networking application
abstract: Technology is directed to a social networking application for sharing secrets anonymously. A user can share content (“secret”) with other users of the social networking application anonymously. The other users may not know who posted the secret. A secret can include multimedia content, e.g., text or an image. Users can “love”/“heart” and/or comment on a secret. The social networking application assigns an unique avatar to each of the users who comment on a secret. In some embodiments, the avatars are assigned on random basis. An author of the secret is assigned a specific avatar. In some embodiments, authors of any of the secrets are assigned the same specific avatar. Each of the comments is displayed with an avatar assigned to the user who posted the corresponding comment. The avatars can also be assigned based on a theme, occasion, etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08862679&OS=08862679&RS=08862679
owner: Secret, Inc.
number: 08862679
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140429
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 981 736 entitled SHARING A SECRET IN A SOCIAL NETWORKING APPLICATION ANONYMOUSLY filed on Apr. 18 2014 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

At least one embodiment of the technique introduced here relates to a social networking application and more particularly to sharing a secret in the social networking application anonymously.

As social networking has become universal people have become increasingly sensitive to what they share online. Speaking on a stage in front of a mixed audience of family friends and acquaintances makes it hard for the people to be their most authentic selves. As a result people tend to share only their proudest moments in an attempt to portray their best selves. They often filter too much and with that may lose real human connection. People are not free to express themselves without holding back. It s not only speaking on a stage that s hard it s also difficult choosing when to like comment and re share other people s posts. Sometimes showing approval of controversial content can be embarrassing or intimidating.

Current social networking applications typically require the user to identify themselves. Every action of the user has a bearing on the image or the reputation of the user. As one s social networking applications becomes saturated the person can feel very public. It puts the focus on managing the person s image rather than truly bonding with people.

In this day and age privacy and security are more important than ever. Most of the social networking applications upload the address book to connect the user with their friends. They also store the data as they have to match new friends that join the service long after you ve uploaded your address book. But even if a service doesn t store the contact information in a database there are all sorts of other places it can go such as into the logs that nearly all services keep for debug and analytical purposes. The data is there and it s discoverable and therefore may lack privacy and security.

Introduced here is a technology for sharing secrets in a social networking application anonymously the technology . A user can share content secret with other users of the social networking application anonymously. The other users may not know who posted the secret. The secret does not include any identifying information such as username of a user an image of the user contact information of the user etc. that can identify the user who shared the secret. A secret can include multimedia content. In some embodiments the multimedia content includes text an image an audio a video or a combination thereof. Users can love heart and or comment on a secret. Users can love heart and or comment on a secret. The social networking application assigns a unique avatar to each of the users who comment on a secret. In some embodiments the avatars are assigned on random basis. An author of the secret is assigned a specific avatar. In some embodiments authors of any of the secrets are assigned the same specific avatar. Each of the comments is displayed with an avatar assigned to the user who posted the corresponding comment. The avatars can also be assigned based on a theme occasion etc.

Users can further share the secret on other social networking applications e.g. Facebook Twitter. Like for the user who posts a secret anonymity is maintained for all types of users in the social networking application including users who love and or comment on the secret.

A secret posted by a user is delivered to a selected set of users e.g. friends of the user. A delivery mechanism determines who the friends of the users are and shares the secret with some or all of the friends of the user. In some embodiments the friends of a user are a set of individuals in the contacts list of the user e.g. an address book of the user who are also members of the social networking application. A friend to whom the secret is delivered is determined as a function of various factors including one or more of number of comments made by the friend a number of hearts the friend has received or given a reputation of the friend a time of the day whether the friend is blocked by the user a geographical location of the friend etc.

The user devices can be a computing device such as a smartphone tablet laptop desktop wearable electronic gadgets automobiles with integrated computing devices etc. The user devices can be any computing device that is capable of providing users access to the social networking application . The user devices communicate with the server over a network such as Internet local area network LAN wireless LAN wide area network WAN etc.

A user such as user posts a secret to the social networking application e.g. using the mobile application executing on the user device . The server receives the secret from the user and determines a list of friends or followers of the user to whom the secret should be delivered. After the list of friends is determined the server posts the secret to the list of friends who can then view the secret e.g. on a news feed of the social networking application . In some embodiments a news feed is a portion of the graphical user interface GUI of the social networking application where the users can view the secrets shared by the user and or other users. The secrets are shared between the users anonymously. That is the secrets may not have any user identification information such as username an image of the user contact details etc. that can identify the user. The anonymity is maintained for all the users e.g. a user who posts the secret comments on the secret and or loves the secret.

Each of the secrets displayed in the news feed includes a comment GUI element that enables the user to comment on a secret and a heart GUI element that enables the user to love heart the secret indicating that the user likes the secret. For example the first secret includes a comment GUI element that enables the user to comment on the first secret and a heart GUI element that enables the user to love heart the first secret . In some embodiments the secret can include a tag that indicates a general identification of the user who posted the secret such as Friend Friend of the friend Your Circle. In some embodiments the tag can include a location of the user who posted the secret such as a city e.g. San Francisco or state e.g. California. For example the first secret includes a tag that indicates a city of the user who posted the first secret . The general identification tags to be displayed on the secret are determined based on various general identification tag criteria including a number of friends the user has. For example if the number of friends the user has is below a particular threshold the general identification tag displayed on the secret can be Your Circle. 

Referring back to a delivery mechanism of the social networking application determines who the friends followers of a user e.g. user are and shares the secret posted by the user with some or all of the friends of the user . In some embodiments the friends of the user are individuals also referred to as contacts in a contacts list of the user e.g. an address book of the user who are also members of the social networking application . When the user signs up for the social networking application contact information of the user and the contacts in the address book of the user e.g. address book on the user device are uploaded to the server . In some embodiments the contact information includes a phone number and or an email ID of an entity. The contact information of the contacts may be hashed locally before uploading to the server so that the contacts are anonymous to the server . The hashing may be performed using a salt. In cryptography a salt is random data that is used as an additional input to a one way function that hashes data e.g. password or passphrase.

In some embodiments the function of a salt is to defend against dictionary attacks and pre computed rainbow table attacks. A new salt can be randomly generated for contact information of each contact. When the contact information is hashed with the salt a phone number such as 15552786005 can become hashed data such as a22d75c92a630725f4 and the hashed data is sent to the server . The original phone number of the contact may not be uploaded from the user device. While only hashed data of the contact information of the contacts of the user is uploaded to the server the contact information of the user may be uploaded in both hashed and non hashed format.

The communication between the user devices and the server can be secured using a secure communication protocol. In some embodiments the user devices transmit the contact information to the server using a cryptographic protocol such as secure socket layer SSL .

After the server receives the contact information of the user and the contacts of the user in the address book the server stores the contact information as a user data object e.g. as illustrated by user data object . The user data object stores the contact information of the user in both hashed and non hashed format as shown in . The user data object stores the contact information of the contacts of the user in a contact data object. The contact data object stores the contact information of each of the contacts of the user as hashed data. In some embodiments the server stores the hashed data of the contacts as binary large objects BLOBs . The user data object may be stored in a storage medium associated with the server e.g. as a database. The client portion of the social networking application performs the process of uploading the contact information of the users and the users contacts and creating a user data object for each of the users who sign up with the social networking application .

When the user signs up with the social networking application the server determines if any of the contacts of the user are also in the social networking application . The server compares the hashed data of the contact information of each of the contacts of the user with hashed contact information of all other users who have signed up with the social networking application to determine if there is any match. If there is a match between hashed contact information of a particular contact of the user and the hashed information of a particular user in a user data object corresponding to the particular user then the server determines that the user is a friend of or a follower of the particular contact in the social networking application . After identifying all the friends of the user the server generates a friend graph object containing the hashed data of the contact information of the friends of the user e.g. as illustrated by friend graph object . The server generates a friend graph object for each of the users in the social networking application .

Referring back to the delivery mechanism for the secrets when the user posts a secret the server determines a list of friends of the user e.g. using the friend graph object . The server may then send the secret to the friends of the user . In some embodiments the server may send the secret to a subset of the friends of the user . The server determines the subset of friends based on a function of various factors including one or more of number of comments made by the friend a number of hearts the friend has received or given on a particular secret a reputation of the friend a time of the day whether the friend has blocked the user whether the friend is blocked by the user a geographical location of the friend etc.

Further the secret can be sent to different friends at different times. For example a secret posted by the user may not be shared with a friend of the user until the friend receives a predetermined number of hearts or loves on his her secret or has given a predetermined number of hearts or loves on secrets posted by other users. After the subset of friends is determined the server transmits the secret to the subset of the friends. The friends may then see the secret on the news feed of the social networking application .

At step the server anonymizes the secret. In some embodiments anonymizing a secret can include isolating user identification from the secret. The server may extract the user identification information from the secret and then deliver the secret without the user information. The server can store the user identification information associated with the secret separate from the secret on the database. In some embodiments a user has the option to delink himself herself from the secret the user has posted in which case a source of the secret may not be discoverable by any entity including the social networking application.

At step the server stores the secret at the storage medium e.g. in a database. At step the server transmits the secret to the author. The author can view the secret on the news feed of the social networking application . At step the server determines the friends of the author to whom the secret has to be delivered e.g. as described above at least with reference to and . At step the server transmits the secret to at least some of the friends of the author.

In some embodiments the fewer friends a user has on the social networking application the lesser is the number of secrets displayed to the user. In some embodiments this is done to avoid simple tricks to isolate individuals and their secrets. Further the general identification tag displayed in association with the secret when the user does not satisfy a first criterion can be general as Your Circle. The user may not know whether a friend of the user or a friend of the friend of the user has posted the secret.

If the number of friends satisfies the first criterion at step the server displays the secrets posted by the friends of the user as well as by friends of the friends of the user. For example if the number of friends the user has is more than a first threshold but lesser than a second threshold the server may transmit secrets that are posted by the friends of the user and friends of the friends of the user to the user. Further the general identification tag displayed in association with the secret can be general as Your Circle. The user may not know whether a friend of the user or a friend of the friend of the user has posted the secret.

At step the server determines whether the number of friends satisfies a second criterion. If the number of friends satisfies the second criterion the server transmits the secrets posted by the friends of the user as well as by friends of the friends of the user and displays in the general identification tag associated with the secrets whether a particular secret is from a Friend or Friend of the friend. For example if the number of friends the user has is greater than the second threshold the server may transmit secrets that are posted by the friends of the user and friends of the friends of the user to the user and can also display the general identification tag in association with the secret that identifies whether the secret is from a Friend or Friend of the friend. However the social networking application does not reveal the identity of the friend or the friend of the friend at any point in time.

At step the server may then send the secret to some or all of the friends of the friend. The secret may continue to be propagated to various degrees of connections of the friends as a particular user hearts or loves the secret. In some embodiments if the secret a particular user is viewing is posted by a user who is beyond 2 degrees of connection to the particular user that is beyond a friend of a friend of a friend of the particular user the general identification tag displays a location e.g. a state a city or a geographical distance of the user who posted the secret.

Though the process describes the criterion for determining whether to share the secret with the friends of the friend is based on a number of hearts the secret receives the criterion can be based on various other factors e.g. an amount of time that has elapsed since the secret was posted to the social networking application etc.

At step the client portion hashes the contact information of the user and the contacts of the user. The hashing may be performed using a shared salt that is shared with the server . When the contact information is hashed with the salt a phone number such as 15552786005 becomes hashed data such as a22d75c92a630725f4 .

At step the client portion similarly hashes the contact information of the contacts of the user. The original phone number and or email of the contact may not be uploaded from the user device.

At step the client portion transmits the hashed contact information of the user and the contacts of the user to the server . While only hashed data of the contact information of the contacts is uploaded to the server the contact information of the user who signed up may be uploaded in both hashed and non hashed format.

At step after the server receives the contact information of the user and the contacts of the user the server determines if any of the contacts of the user are also registered with members of the social networking application . The server compares the hashed data of the contact information of each of the contacts of the user with hashed contact information of all other users in the social networking application to determine if there is any match. If there is a match between the hashed contact information of a particular contact of the user and the hashed information of a particular user in the social networking application the server determines that the user is a friend of or a follower of the particular contact.

At step after identifying all the friends of the user the server generates a friend graph object containing the hashed data of the contact information of the friends. The server generates a friend graph object for each of the users in the social networking application .

The user can compose the secret by inputting the text of the secret as shown in third GUI of . The user can also add a color background to the secret. For example the user can select the color background GUI element to add color to the background as shown in fourth GUI . In some embodiments selecting the color background GUI element switches the colors in the background in a random order. The color background can be changed using various user interactions. For example the color background can be changed by finger swipe gestures e.g. swipe from left right of the screen to right left of the screen . A texture of the color background can be changed by another type of finger swipe gestures. For example by swiping from top bottom of the screen to bottom top of the screen.

When the user is ready to post the secret the user may do so by selecting the posting GUI element such as the posting GUI element in seventh GUI . After the user posts the secret the secret can be viewed in the news feed of the mobile application e.g. as illustrated in an eighth GUI . While the secret is presented on the news feed of the user substantially instantaneously the social networking application may transmit the secret to the friends of the user at a later time e.g. based on the delivery mechanism described above.

The ninth GUI illustrates comments displayed with their associated avatars . Note that the avatars do not reveal any identity of the users. Each user who comments on a particular secret is assigned a unique avatar from a list of avatars available at the server based on an avatar selection policy. That is each user is assigned an avatar from the list of available avatars that is not already assigned to any of other users who have commented on the particular secret. However in some embodiments the avatars are unique to the users for the comments on the particular secret. That is an avatar assigned to a user for posting comments on a first secret can be different from an avatar assigned to the user for posting comments on a second secret.

In some embodiments the avatar selection policy assigns a unique avatar to the user by randomly selecting an avatar from the list of avatars. For example when a user comments on the particular secret for the first time the social networking application randomly selects an avatar from the list of avatars that is not already assigned to any of the users who have commented on the particular secret and assigns the randomly selected avatar to the user.

In some embodiments the avatar selection policy is configured to assign a unique avatar to the user by selecting the avatar from the list of avatars based on contents of the comment made by particular user. For example when a user comments on the particular secret for the first time the social networking application analyses the comment to determine a particular category the comment can be classified into. The categories can be based on a theme an occasion etc. For example if the comment is about romance the social networking application can assign an avatar e.g. a graphical representation of two hearts that relates to the theme romance. In another example if the comment is about cars the social networking application can assign an avatar e.g. a graphical representation of a car that relates to the theme cars. The social networking application can various avatars for a particular category.

In some embodiments the avatar selection policy is configured to assign a unique avatar to the users by selecting the avatars from the list of avatars based on contents of a secret on which the users are commenting. The social networking application analyses the secret to determine a particular category the secret can be classified into. The categories can be based on a theme an occasion etc. For example if the secret is about food the social networking application can assign avatars that relate to the theme food e.g. a graphical representation of various types of food to the users who comment on the secret. In another example if the secret is about fitness the social networking application can assign avatars that relate to the theme fitness e.g. a graphical representation of various activities or things associated with fitness to the users commenting on the secret.

Once a user is assigned a unique avatar for commenting on a particular secret subsequent comments from the user for the particular secret may have the same avatar.

In the ninth GUI the comment Congratulations friend . . . on the secret is made by a first user and the comment Right behind you . . . . is made by a second user. Accordingly each of these two users is assigned an unique avatar. For example the first user is assigned a first avatar and the second user is assigned a second avatar . The comments from the first and the second user are associated with their avatars and then displayed with the associated avatars. In the tenth GUI the comments How did you do it . . . and You called them directly . . . on the secret are made by the same user and therefore are displayed with the same avatar e.g. assigned to the user who posted those comments.

An author of a secret is assigned a predetermined avatar that clearly indicates that a particular comment on the secret is from the author of the secret. In some embodiments the avatar assigned to an author of any of the secrets is the same. That is the avatar of a first author of a first secret is same as the avatar of a second author of a second secret. Further the comment from an author can be visually distinct from that of other users. For example a format such as a font color size style of the text of the comment of the author of a secret is different from that of the comments posted by other users. In the tenth GUI the author of the secret is assigned a crown avatar . Accordingly the comment from the author is displayed with the crown avatar . Further the text of the comment is italicized while the text of the comments from the other users are not. In some embodiments the text is of a different color e.g. blue while the text of the comments from other users is in black.

In some embodiments the list of avatars made available at the server can be changed based on a specific time period. For example Christmas themed avatars may be made available during Christmas and the users may be assigned avatars from the Christmas themed avatars.

Referring back to the ninth GUI displays a secret in a first portion of the ninth GUI and the comments posted on the secret in a second portion of the ninth GUI . The first portion has an image as a background to the secret . However in another embodiments the first portion can have a colored backdrop as a background to the secret . The GUI may be rendered on a user device e.g. a smartphone associated with a user of the social networking application . In some embodiments if the secret has more comments than those displayed in the comments the user may view those additional comments by maximizing the second portion of the ninth GUI to obtain the tenth GUI of which shows more number of comments in comments .

The ninth GUI includes various GUI elements. For example the first portion of the ninth GUI includes a comment GUI element that indicates a number of comments received on the secret . In some embodiments a comment GUI element can also be used to post a comment on a secret. For example a comment GUI element such as the comment GUI element of can be used to post a comment on the first secret . On receiving a user selection of the comment GUI element a GUI for posting a comment such as the ninth GUI can be displayed. The user may then input the comment in a portion of the GUI such as third portion of the ninth GUI .

The first portion also includes a heart GUI element . The heart GUI element indicates a number of hearts received on the secret which indicates a number of users who love or like the secret . The heart GUI element also facilitates a user to love or like the secret . In some embodiments when the user loves or likes the secret on his her user device the heart GUI element can change in appearance. For example when the heart GUI element receives a like or love the color of the heart GUI element may change from a first color to a second color e.g. red after receiving the like or love. Various such visual appearance changes can be performed on the heart GUI element to indicate to the user that the user has loved or liked the secret .

Each of the comments in the second portion of the ninth GUI includes a comment heart GUI element such as comment heart GUI element . The comment heart GUI element facilitates the user to love or like the comment with which the comment heart GUI element is associated. A comment can also include a number of hearts GUI element that indicates a number of users who have liked or loved the comment.

A number of user interactions can be performed on the ninth GUI . illustrate an example of a user interaction that can be performed on the ninth GUI . A user can perform a user interaction such as dragging the second portion away from the first portion . For example on a user device such as a smartphone the user may drag the second portion away from the first portion using a swipe gesture. In some embodiments while the user drags the second portion away from the first portion to result in the second portion the secret displayed in the first portion can disappear as shown in the first portion of . The user can view the background of the secret e.g. image without the secret coming in the way of the background. In some embodiments the other GUI elements from the first portion such as comment GUI element and a heart GUI element also disappear.

Further the dragging down of the second portion can have a rubber band effect on the ninth GUI . That is as the user drags the second portion away from the first portion the first portion expands in size e.g. occupies a larger real estate of the display of the user device as shown by first portion of . Also a portion of the contents in the first portion expands. For example if the first portion has an image in the background the image expands e.g. stretches outwards to result in image as shown in first portion of .

While the first portion expands in size as the user drags the second portion away from the first portion the second portion decreases in size as shown by the second portion of . When the user releases the second portion both the first portion and the second portion return to their original state as shown by the first and second portions and of respectively.

Also while the first portion shrinks to the first portion the visual characteristics of the contents in the first portion are progressively changed. For example the image and the secret are progressively blurred as shown by first content and second content in the eleventh GUI and the tenth GUI respectively.

In some embodiments the comments and the comments include a portion of the comments posted on the secret . The user may scroll the comments in the second portion to view any additional comments that are not initially displayed. In some embodiments the comments displayed in the tenth GUI can include the comments displayed in the ninth GUI . However a number of the comments displayed in the tenth GUI can be more than that of the comments displayed in the ninth GUI .

The server includes an author determination module to determine if any of the comments are posted by an author of the secret. In some embodiments the author determination module uses user information such as email ID and or phone number or a hashed version of the email ID and or phone number of the user to determine if the comment is posted by an author of the secret. For example the author determination module compares user information of the user who posted the comment with that of the author of the secret to determine if the comment is posted by the author. If the comment is posted by the author the avatar assigning module assigns a predetermined avatar to the author and associates the comment posted by the author with the predetermined avatar. The predetermined avatar clearly indicates that a particular comment on the secret is from the author of the secret. In some embodiments the avatar assigned to an author of any of the secrets is the same. Further a user such as an administrator of the social networking application can configure a particular avatar from the list of avatars available at the server e.g. in the storage medium as the avatar for an author of a secret.

The avatar assigning module assigns an unique avatar to each user who comments on a particular secret. That is each user is assigned an avatar from the list of available avatars that is not already assigned to any of the users who have commented on the particular secret. However in some embodiments the avatars are unique to the users for the comments on the particular secret. That is an avatar assigned to a user for posting comments on a first secret can be different from an avatar assigned to the user for posting comments on a second secret.

The avatars can be assigned based on an avatar selection policy. In some embodiments the avatar selection policy is configured to assign a unique avatar to the user by selecting the avatar from the list of avatars in a random manner. For example when a user comments on the particular secret for the first time the social networking application randomly selects an avatar from the list of avatars that is not already assigned to any of the users who have commented on the particular secret and assigns the randomly selected avatar to the user. The avatar assigning module associates each of the comments with an avatar assigned to the user who posted the corresponding comment.

The secret presentation module sends the secret to the computing devices of the users for further display. In some embodiments the secret presentation module implements the delivery mechanism of the social networking application . As discussed above at least with reference to the delivery mechanism determines the list of users e.g. friends of a user to whom a particular secret posted by the user has to be transmitted to. The comment presentation module sends the comments on the secret to the computing devices of the users. In some embodiments the secret and the comments on the secret are displayed via the social networking app executing on the computing device. Additional details with respect to the server is described in the following paragraphs at least with reference to .

The computing device includes a GUI generation module that generates the GUI for sharing a secret and comments on the secret between the users . In some embodiments the GUI generation module generates a GUI for displaying a plurality of secrets. For example the GUI generation module generates the first GUI for displaying a plurality of secrets including secrets and . In some embodiments the GUI generation module generates a GUI for displaying a secret and comments on the secret. For example the GUI generation module generates the ninth GUI for displaying a secret and the comments including comments associated with the secret . In some embodiments the secret is displayed in a first portion of the GUI and the comments on the secret in a second portion of the GUI. For example the GUI generation module generates the ninth GUI for displaying the secret in the first portion of the ninth GUI and the comments of the secret on the second portion .

The GUI generation module can also generate a GUI for the user to post a comment on the secret. For example the user can comment on the secret by inputting the comment in the third portion of the ninth GUI . The computing device includes a secret transceiver module to receive a secret input by the user at the computing device . The secret transceiver module can also transmit the secret input by the user to the server for further transmission to other users of the social networking application e.g. users . The computing device includes a comment transceiver module to receive comments from a user for one or more secrets posted to the social networking application . The comment transceiver module can also transmit the comments input by the user to the server for further transmission to other users of the social networking application e.g. users 

The computing device also includes an user interaction module that receives user selections or user interactions from the user . The user interactions can result in a change to the GUI generated by the GUI generation module which can cause the GUI generation module to regenerate the GUI. For example as described in association with and A C the user can perform operations such as drag or push a second portion of the ninth GUI away or towards the first portion which results in regenerating the ninth GUI .

The computing device includes a display module to display the GUI generated by the GUI generation module to the user

At block the comment receiving module receives comments on the secret from a number of users e.g. at least a subset of the users . The users can post comments on the secret via the social networking apps executing on their corresponding computing devices.

At block the author determination module determines if any of the comments received on the secret are from the author of the secret. For example the author determination module determines if any of the comments received for the secret are posted by the user who is the author the secret . In some embodiments the author determination module uses user information such as email ID and or phone number or a hashed version of the email ID and or phone number of the user to determine if the comment is posted by an author of the secret. For example the author determination module compares user information of the user who posted the comment with that of user to determine if the comment is posted by the user

Responsive to a determination that one or more of the comments are posted by the author of the secret at block the avatar assigning module assigns a predetermined avatar to the author and associates the one or more comments posted by the author with the predetermined avatar. The predetermined avatar clearly indicates that a particular comment on the secret is posted by the author of the secret. For example the avatar assigning module assigns a crown avatar of to the user who is the author of the secret for posting the comment . In some embodiments the avatar assigned to an author of any of the secrets is the same. After assigning the predetermined avatar to the author the process proceeds to the block .

Responsive to a determination that none of the comments are posted by the author of the secret at block the avatar assigning module assigns an unique avatar to each user who has posted one or more comments on the secret. That is each user is assigned an avatar from the list of available avatars that is not already assigned to any of the users who have commented on the secret. For example the avatar assigning module assigns unique avatars and to two users who posted comments on the secret . However in some embodiments the avatars are unique to the users for the comments posted on a particular secret. That is an avatar assigned to a user for posting comments on a first secret can be different from an avatar assigned to the user for posting comments on a second secret.

The avatars can be assigned to the users based on an avatar selection policy. In some embodiments the avatar selection policy is configured to assign a unique avatar to the user by selecting the avatar from the list of avatars in a random manner. For example when a user e.g. user comments on the secret for the first time the social networking application randomly selects an avatar e.g. first avatar from the list of avatars that is not already assigned to any of the users who have commented on the secret and assigns the randomly selected avatar first to the user

At block the avatar assigning module associates each of the comments posted on the secret with an avatar assigned to the user who posted the corresponding comment.

At block the comment presentation module presents the comments to the users for display at their corresponding computing devices. For example the comment presentation module can transmit the secret and the comments including comments to the users . When the users view the comments in their computing devices the comments are displayed with the associated avatars.

At block the comment transceiver module receives the comments posted on the secret from the server . For example the computing device receives the comments including comments posted on the secret .

At block the GUI generation module generates a first portion of a GUI for displaying the secret received at block . For example the computing device generates a first portion of the ninth GUI to display the secret .

At block the GUI generation module generates a second portion of the GUI for displaying the comments posted on the secret. The second portion of the GUI also displays the avatars associated with each of the comments. For example the computing device generates a second portion of the ninth GUI to display the comments posted on the secret . The comments also include avatars such as avatars and .

At block the display module displays the GUI including the first portion and the second portion. For example the computing device displays the ninth GUI with the secret in the first portion and the comments at least some in the second portion .

The memory and storage devices are computer readable storage media that may store instructions that implement at least portions of the described technology. In addition the data structures and message structures may be stored or transmitted via a data transmission medium such as a signal on a communications link. Various communications links may be used such as the Internet a local area network a wide area network or a point to point dial up connection. Thus computer readable media can include computer readable storage media e.g. non transitory media and computer readable transmission media.

The instructions stored in memory can be implemented as software and or firmware to program the processor s to carry out actions described above. In some embodiments such software or firmware may be initially provided to the computing system by downloading it from a remote system through the computing system e.g. via network adapter .

The technology introduced herein can be implemented by for example programmable circuitry e.g. one or more microprocessors programmed with software and or firmware or entirely in special purpose hardwired non programmable circuitry or in a combination of such forms. Special purpose hardwired circuitry may be in the form of for example one or more ASICs PLDs FPGAs etc.

The above description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However in some instances well known details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. Further various modifications may be made without deviating from the scope of the embodiments. Accordingly the embodiments are not limited except as by the appended claims.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of such phrases in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not for other embodiments.

The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art within the context of the disclosure and in the specific context where each term is used. Terms that are used to describe the disclosure are discussed below or elsewhere in the specification to provide additional guidance to the practitioner regarding the description of the disclosure. For convenience some terms may be highlighted for example using italics and or quotation marks. The use of highlighting has no influence on the scope and meaning of a term the scope and meaning of a term is the same in the same context whether or not it is highlighted. It will be appreciated that the same thing can be said in more than one way. One will recognize that memory is one form of a storage and that the terms may on occasion be used interchangeably.

Consequently alternative language and synonyms may be used for any one or more of the terms discussed herein nor is any special significance to be placed upon whether or not a term is elaborated or discussed herein. Synonyms for some terms are provided. A recital of one or more synonyms does not exclude the use of other synonyms. The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any term discussed herein is illustrative only and is not intended to further limit the scope and meaning of the disclosure or of any exemplified term. Likewise the disclosure is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the logic illustrated in each of the flow diagrams discussed above may be altered in various ways. For example the order of the logic may be rearranged substeps may be performed in parallel illustrated logic may be omitted other logic may be included etc.

Without intent to further limit the scope of the disclosure examples of instruments apparatus methods and their related results according to the embodiments of the present disclosure are given below. Note that titles or subtitles may be used in the examples for convenience of a reader which in no way should limit the scope of the disclosure. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure pertains. In the case of conflict the present document including definitions will control.

