---

title: Microstructured silicon radiation detector
abstract: A radiation detector comprises a silicon body in which are defined vertical pores filled with a converter material and situated within silicon depletion regions. One or more charge-collection electrodes are arranged to collect current generated when secondary particles enter the silicon body through walls of the pores. The pores are disposed in low-density clusters, have a majority pore thickness of 5 μm or less, and have a majority aspect ratio, defined as the ratio of pore depth to pore thickness, of at least 10.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09595628&OS=09595628&RS=09595628
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09595628
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140811
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

It has long been known that a neutron detector can be made by placing a semiconductor diode adjacent to a thin film of a sensor material that reacts with neutrons. Typically an n or n reaction takes place in the sensor film. The interaction of the released photon or alpha particle with the semiconductor leads to the generation of electron hole pairs that can be detected in a suitable electronic circuit.

More recently it has been recognized that greater detector efficiency can be achieved in so called microstructured semiconductor neutron detectors MSNDs in which the semiconductor is patterned with an array of holes or trenches filled with sensor material or in which the semiconductor is patterned as an array of columns surrounded by a fill of sensor material.

A review and modeling study of diode detectors based on hole arrays trench arrays and columnar arrays is provided for example in D. S. McGregor et al. Present status of microstructured semiconductor neutron detectors 379 2013 99 110.

A recent report on columnar arrays is provided for example in Q. Shao et al. Gamma discrimination in pillar structured thermal neutron detectors SPIE defense security and sensing 2012 Baltimore Md. Apr. 23 27 2012 published as LLNL PROC 543492 Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory Mar. 30 2012 .

A patent disclosing perforated semiconductor neutron detectors diode detectors based on hole or trench arrays is U.S. Pat. No. 7 164 138 which issued on Jan. 16 2007 to D. S. McGregor and Raymond Klann under the title High efficiency neutron detectors and methods of making same. An embodiment described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 164 138 patent utilizes a semiconductor wafer with a matrix of spaced cavities filled with one or more types of neutron reactive material such as B or LiF. The cavities may be etched via holes or etched slots or trenches.

A trench based detector is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 855 372 issued on Dec. 21 2010 to D. S. McGregor et al. under the title Non streaming high efficiency perforated semiconductor neutron detectors methods of making same and measuring wand and detector modules utilizing same. In that detector the semiconductor is patterned as an array of sinuous fins spaced apart by a corresponding array of sinuous channels containing neutron sensing material.

Devices such as those described in the publications and patents cited above have shown significant promise not least because they offer advantages of ruggedness compactness and reliability. However there remains a need for devices that have still greater sensitivity as well as for devices that offer similar advantages for the detection of other forms of radiation such as gamma radiation.

We have developed a semiconductor diode radiation detector adaptable for among other things gamma ray or neutron detection that offers the potential for high sensitivity in a rugged and compact package.

In an embodiment the detector includes a silicon body having a horizontal lateral extent and containing a plurality of vertical pores. Although the pores in exemplary embodiments described below are holes with cylindrical with circular cross sections the term pore is meant here to encompass cavities having a broad range of shapes including holes with square rectangular triangular hexagonal or other cross sections and also trenches in which one lateral dimension is substantially greater than the other.

In the said embodiment at least one n type region and at least one p type region are formed within the silicon body and arranged to define one or more depletion regions. A depletion region is a portion of the silicon body that exhibits carrier depletion when a reverse bias of sufficient magnitude is applied between the n type and p type regions.

The pores are situated within depletion regions. The pores are at least partially filled with a converter material selected to produce secondary particles when impinged by radiation of at least one type. By way of example but without limitation an incident neutron may generate a recoil proton when the neutron interacts with a converter material within the pores. The recoil proton is in that instance an example of a secondary particle.

Each of one or more charge collection electrodes is arranged to collect current generated when secondary particles enter the silicon body through walls of the pores. Each pore is a void that is vertically extensive to a pore depth and enclosed within silicon walls. Each pore has a thickness defined as the pore diameter or if the pore is not round the smallest lateral dimension of the pore.

The pores are disposed in one or more clusters. For specificity the boundary of a cluster is defined by drawing a minimum length boundary around the pores where they intersect a face of the silicon body and by projecting the resulting closed curve perpendicularly through the silicon body so as to define a volume in three dimensions that contains the pores corresponding to a given cluster.

In a cluster the total silicon density is less than the solid density of the silicon body because the pores when unfilled are void. More specifically the total silicon density in the clusters is reduced by the pores to 20 50 of the solid density of the silicon body and is preferably about 25 of the solid density.

Most ideally all of the pores have a pore thickness less than or equal to 5 m and an aspect ratio defined as the ratio of pore depth to pore thickness of at least 10.

To continue the example of a p n reaction referred to above the recoil proton may generate electron hole pairs within the silicon body including the silicon walls that separate one pore from another. The migration of the electron hole pairs to the charge collection electrodes provides the detector current. The detector current is thus cumulative over a volume that in typical instances will contain many pores filled with converter material.

In embodiments the pore thickness is small enough to permit a substantial fraction of the secondary particles to escape from the converter material into the silicon body. In at least some such embodiments therefore the pore thickness is no more than the range of the secondary particles in the converter material. The converter material filling a particular pore may be one of several different converter materials used in the detector. The range referred to here is the range of the secondary particles at the mean energy generated by incident i.e. primary particles of at least one energy within the primary energy range that is to be detected.

In embodiments the p type and n type regions are disposed in vertically oriented layers such that under negative bias each pore is traversed by a substantially horizontal electric field.

In embodiments the p type and n type regions are disposed such that a region of one predominant carrier type is disposed in vertically oriented layers and the region of the other predominant carrier type is disposed at or near a bottom face of the silicon body.

In embodiments at least one gate electrode is included to promote carrier depletion within the semiconductor body under appropriate biasing conditions.

Processes for making porous silicon are known. For example an electrochemical etching process for forming macropores i.e. pores having a diameter greater than 50 nm is described in F. Mueller et al. Structuring of Macroporous Silicon for Applications as Photonic Crystals 7 2000 201 204. As reported in Mueller et al. an n type 100 silicon wafer is photolithographically patterned to define the sites where etch pits are to be formed. The etch pits are essential for initiating the subsequent electrochemical etching of the pores. Alkaline etching of the patterned wafer produces the etch pits which are conformed as inverted pyramids at the desired sites. The wafer is then etched in hydrofluoric acid under anodic bias. Backside illumination for the photogeneration of holes is maintained during the etch. Hole generation is necessary to promote the dissolution of silicon at the pore tips. Mueller et al. reported the production of hexagonally arranged pores with a diameter of 0.9 m a center to center spacing of 1.5 m and a depth of 100 m.

A similar process is described in somewhat more detail by V. Lehmann and H. Foell Formation Mechanism and Properties of Electrochemically Etched Trenches in n type Silicon 137 February 1990 653 659 cited in Mueller et al. supra. Among other things Lehmann and Foell reported pore diameters in the range 1 10 m obtained by etching n type silicon wafers of resistivities in the range 10 300 cm. Lehmann and Foell also reported pore depths up to 300 m although widened cavities were observed at the bottoms of the pores that had the greatest depths. The authors commented that for hydrofluoric acid concentrations greater than those used in their experiments pore growth through the entire wafer thickness should be possible.

Further discussion of macropore formation in silicon may be found in V. Lehmann The Physics of Macropore Formation in Low Doped n Type Silicon 140 October 1993 2836 2843 cited in Mueller et al. supra. The entirety of each of the three works cited above is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In view of the literature discussed above we believe that without undue experimentation processes similar to those that were reported can be used to create porous regions in lithographically defined areas of a silicon wafers that reach to a depth of several hundred micrometers or even penetrate all the way through the wafer. We believe that through control of parameters such as the n type doping concentration of the wafer substantially uniform pore diameters in the range 1 10 m or even smaller can be produced.

By way of illustration we believe that a region can be permeated by a hexagonal array of pores with a pore diameter of 10 m and a center to center separation of 10.88 m which would yield a minimum wall thickness between pores of 0.88 m. If the pores were perfectly cylindrical 80 of such a region would be void and 20 would be silicon. Likewise a similar pattern of pores of diameter 5 m and center to center separation 5.44 m would have a minimum wall thickness of 0.44 m and a silicon density that is 20 of the solid density. A porous to solid density ratio of 25 is currently preferred for at least some applications in radiation detection. Porous to solid density ratios in the range 20 50 are believed to be especially useful. Similarly a pore thickness of 5 m is believed adequate for some applications in radiation detection. A pore thickness of 2 m or less is believed preferable not least because it permits the detection of radiation over a greater range of primary particle types and energies.

In an alternative procedure for pore creation Bosch etch or other deep reactive ion etch DRIE techniques may be used to penetrate silicon layers 40 m thick or even more with pores that are as little as 2 5 m in diameter or even less.

Turning now to there will be seen a silicon substrate including two porous silicon regions and each penetrated by a group of four pores designated in one group by the reference numeral and in the other group by the reference numeral . The figure is purely illustrative and is not meant to limit the arrangement or quantity of any features that are represented therein. As seen in the figure the walls of each pore are passivated with a dielectric liner exemplarily of silicon dioxide or silicon nitride. The purpose of the passivation liner is to suppress leakage current which could otherwise contribute an excessively high background signal.

For use in a neutron detector by way of example the pores are filled with a neutron sensitive converter material such as lithium 6 or boron 10 in elemental or compound form. The lithium and boron isotopes react to neutron capture by emitting an alpha particle according to the respective reactions Li n H and B n Li. The alpha particle in turn can interact with the surrounding silicon substrate material to generate electron hole pairs which are collected as will be further explained below to produce a detector output signal.

A representative reaction is illustrated in the figure where a neutron is shown entering the converter material and a pair of secondary particles typically alpha particles represented only by arrows is shown leaving the converter material and entering the silicon substrate material. Each of the secondary particles is shown as stopping within the silicon substrate and generating an electron hole pair that is collected by respective electrodes. That is an electric field is created by applying a reverse bias to a diode structure that contains the porous silicon region within which the converter material is situated. Under the influence of the electric field the electron migrates to the n type electrode and the hole migrates to the p type electrode .

For efficient detection of neutrons or other radiative particles it is desirable to assure that a substantial fraction of the secondary particles e.g. alpha particles will be able to escape from the pores in which they are generated so that they can be stopped within the silicon substrate material where they will generate electron hole pairs. To facilitate the escape of the secondary particles it is desirable to limit the pore thickness to no more than the range of the secondary particles within the converter material. For that reason it will generally be advantageous for the pore thickness to be at most 5 m.

By way of illustration 1.47 MeV alpha particles have a range of about 5 m in silicon and about 3.5 m in boron. Further 0.84 MeV lithium 7 nuclei have a range of about 5 m in silicon and about 1.8 m in boron.

With further reference to it will be seen that semiconductor junctions are formed between p type regions and n type regions so as to create respective diode structures and . More specifically porous silicon region is contained within diode structure and porous silicon region is likewise contained within diode structure . As seen in the figure regions and are formed on the front side of the wafer by lithographic patterning followed by deposition and diffusion of appropriate dopants. Such an arrangement is merely exemplary and not meant to be limiting. For example junctions may be formed on the back side of the wafer or even through the thickness of the silicon layer. Some possible alternative arrangements will be described below.

In operation the junctions are reverse biased through metal contacts so as to achieve substantial carrier depletion in the vicinity of the porous silicon regions. Nearly complete depletion is desirable to minimize the background signal from the detector while efficiently collecting the radiation generated carriers from throughout the sensing volumes.

We believe that the geometry of porous silicon is very favorable for efficient charge generation and collection because we expect to achieve substantially complete depletion of the network of silicon forming the pore walls as well as the surrounding silicon while also maintaining an electric field in the vicinity of the converter material within the pores. Moreover the small pore diameters make it possible for a substantial fraction of short range particles such as alpha or beta particles generated by the primary radiation interactions to escape from the converter material and stop within the silicon depletion region with enough remaining energy to be detected via electron hole generation.

Because the electron hole pairs are generated in depleted silicon few of the generated carriers will be lost to recombination hence they will be collected with high efficiency. Stated differently if the mass weighted fill ratio is e.g. 80 then very roughly 80 of the secondary particle energy will be deposited in the converter material that fills the pores. However if the pores are thin enough there will be relatively little stopping of secondary particles within the converter material and a substantial fraction of the secondary particles will instead escape the fill into the surrounding silicon. Hence the deposition of secondary particle energy in the fill will be attributable more to the slowing of particles that ultimately escape than to the stopping of secondary particles within the fill. Significantly a substantial fraction of the escaping particles will interact with the silicon energetically enough to generate detectable carrier pairs. We expect that the carriers generated in that fashion can be collected and detected with about twenty percent efficiency or even more.

In some known microstructured semiconductor neutron detectors by contrast the silicon substrate contains cavities filled with converter material at a thickness that is several times the secondary particle range. In such arrangements it is possible for the detected particles to have greater average energy than in the scheme described here but we believe that on average fewer secondary particles will escape from the fill with enough energy to be detected. We therefore believe that the scheme described here offers the possibility of more efficient detection of secondary particles.

We expect that the advantages of our design will become more pronounced as the pore thickness decreases and the ratio of surface area to volume correspondingly increases.

Thus the various factors discussed above will cooperate to facilitate very efficient charge collection from the entire sensor volume. As noted above we estimate that an 80 fill ratio by volume of converter material will enable a detector to be made that has useful sensitivity while enjoying various other advantages such as ruggedness and compactness as well as the possibility of pixelation which is discussed below.

Furthermore our detector can be optimized for the efficient detection of specified forms of primary radiation. That is the kind of secondary radiation that is generated its energy and its range depend on the primary radiation and on the converter material. The pore dimensions can be specified with reference to a specific choice of converter material so as to optimize energy deposition in the silicon by the secondary particles for a specified type of primary radiation and even for specified energy ranges of the primary radiation. By optimizing in that way the detector can be designed for at least partial spectroscopic discrimination.

With further reference to it will be seen that the device as illustrated includes a silicon dioxide partition that separates diode structure from diode structure . By lithographic patterning that includes a system of partitions such as partition a linear or two dimensional array of pixels can be defined in which each pixel corresponds to a diode structure such as structures and . More generally each pixel will include at least one pn junction. Thus some implementations are envisaged in which each diode structure corresponds to a respective pixel whereas other implementations are envisaged in which each pixel encompasses a plurality of diode structures or pn junctions. In either case however it should be understood that each pixel will encompass a multiplicity of pores.

A typical pixel for a two dimensional 2D array would be a square of side length 100 m. A 100 m square pixel containing a hexagonal array of 10 m diameter pores with a center to center separation of 10.88 m could contain for example a total of 77 pores or even somewhat more as shown in .

Further two or more 2D arrays such as we have described could be stacked to form a three dimensional 3D array for full volume detection and tracking of fragments. Such a detector array would allow higher resolution than a single monolithic detector of similar volume and it could permit new types of measurements to be carried out. In particular high speed tracking of events in two or three dimensions could be facilitated by co integrating SOI based components for on board charge storage data storage and data processing with the pixel arrays.

As noted above pixel arrays can be integrated on a single wafer. Alternatively individual pixels and other detector components can be processed on a wafer and subsequently separated for later reassembly on a detector substrate by any of various known techniques.

As best seen in a square recess is formed in the receiver plate. The recess wall is beveled with a staircase like progression of four ledges each of which supports the periphery of one of the four carriers. Each ledge is provided with a row of pads for electrical contact with the corresponding carrier. The contact pads may e.g. be connected to vias that are arranged at the periphery of the receiver plate and provide electrical continuity between the front and back faces of the receiver plate. The vias are useful e.g. for system level communication in an assembly consisting of a stack of multiple receiver plates.

Although the specific example of a neutron detector has been described here it is important to recognize that implementations for detection of any of various types of radiation are feasible with a suitable choice of a converter material or a combination of two or more converter materials and with such dimensional modifications as may be necessary in view of the penetration distances of the particles to be detected. All such implementations should be understood to lie within the scope and spirit of the invention.

In particular implementations of our detector for detecting gamma rays and energetic x rays collectively gamma radiation or gamma photons are likely to be important. One useful route to detecting gamma radiation is through interactions with the photoelectrons produced when gamma photons are scattered by high atomic number high Z atoms. The photoelectrons in turn interact with the silicon to produce electron hole pairs that are collected as explained above.

Some relatively efficient converter materials for producing gamma photoelectrons are tungsten and depleted uranium. Uranium in the compound form uranium dioxide may be of special interest because it is a semiconductor and as such might be made to cooperate with the surrounding silicon in the generation and sweepout of radiation generated electrons and holes.

Gadolinium 157 may also be of interest as a converter material for neutrons. There is a very high cross section for the thermal neutron capture reaction Gd n Gd which produces prompt gamma rays with an energy spectrum of up to 7 MeV as well as x rays and electrons that are released due to internal conversion and Auger processes. The electrons and at least a portion of the x rays may be stopped directly in the silicon substrate material leading to charge generation. To improve detector efficiency it might be advantageous to add a second high Z converter material such as tungsten in selected groups of pores to stop some of the highly penetrating gamma radiation and transfer its energy to photoelectrons.

Lithium and beryllium in elemental or compound form may be useful as converter materials for gamma ray detection. Xenon may also be useful as a converter material for gamma ray detection. Xenon would be provided as a pressurized gas fill within a sealed pressure vessel.

Liquefied propane and methane may be useful as converter materials for neutron detection and for gamma ray detection. Methane could be of particular interest because in addition to its utility as an effective converter material it is also a good charge carrier. In some implementations of e.g. a methane filled detector the pixel size may be controlled in such a way that gamma interactions can be discriminated from neutron interactions according to the particle range within the detector. That is if the pixel size is smaller than the range of the particles being detected then the measured range can help to discriminate the particle type.

In this regard one way to control the pixel size is to set the pixel size according to the size of the electrode. One convenient electrode size is 300 m 300 m. Variations both above and below these numbers are feasible.

As seen in a dual passivation layer of silicon dioxide overlain by silicon nitride is added to the top of the wafer. Then as seen in the passivation layer is lithographically patterned and etched and p type and n type dopants are introduced and diffused to respectively create the p and n regions that form the diode junctions.

As seen in the wafer is then lithographically patterned and etched from the passivation layer down to the BOX to form the pores and to form trenches for the partitions between respective diode structures. As explained above the pores can be made by first producing etch pits by alkaline etching using the patterned passivation layer as a mask followed by anodic etching in hydrofluoric acid. Alternatively the pores can be made by RIE.

It should be noted in this regard that prior to the HF etch if used to form the pores the wafer surface can be passivated with a nitride layer that is impervious to the acid etchant and thus protects underlying structures such as implanted or diffused junction regions. If the pores are made by RIE it would be typical to use a Bosch etching process. The Bosch etch is currently capable of creating pores of aspect ratio up to about 20. For example it could be used to create pores 2 m in diameter and 40 m deep.

As seen in the pores are then undercut with a cavity formed by HF vapor etching and the inner surfaces of the pores and cavities as well as the trenches for the partitions are coated with a dual oxide nitride passivation layer . As seen in the pores and trenches are then filled with silicon dioxide and planarized contact openings are etched and metal is deposited and patterned for the diode contacts.

As seen in a Bosch etch from the back side of the wafer removes handle material and BOX from behind the pores and the pores are back filled with the converter material . The converter material may be grown from vapor or deposited from a solution or slurry. For some applications it may be advantageous to deposit the converter material in the form of beads or other nanoparticles. In some implementations the pores may be filled by immersion in a liquid or gaseous converter material.

The remaining portion of the handle layer may be left in place or it may be etched away to yield the final conformation shown in .

In both sides of the junction are conformed as elongated substantially vertical regions that extend through most or all of the wafer thickness. As a consequence the electric field that is produced in each diode structure under reverse bias is substantially horizontal relative to the wafer orientation.

The doped regions indicated in may be conformed as pillars disposed e.g. in a rectangular or hexagonal array. Alternatively the doped regions may be conformed as walls that enclose cells of porous silicon or as walls that meander without forming enclosures.

As seen in the starting material is an n doped SOI wafer having a 500 m silicon handle layer. Alternatively a bulk silicon wafer could be used. A p i n sensor layer is formed by p type surface doping and n type ion implantation in a layer lying at a depth of 5 20 m. As seen in p contact regions are formed by ion implantation.

As seen in pores are etched e.g. by techniques already referred to above. It is noteworthy in this regard that it is not essential for the pores to be cylindrical even though examples provided above have made such an assumption. The pores may in fact have square rectangular or other nominal cross sections. In the particular example of among others the pores may advantageously be conformed as trenches i.e. as features that are nominally rectangular in cross section with length to width ratios greater than 2 and possibly even greater than 10 or more. In an example the pores are etched to a depth slightly below the n type implanted layer with a width or diameter of 2 3 m and a separation between facing edges of 5 10 m.

With further reference to the walls of the pores are passivated with a growth of 200 of thermal oxide also grown on the front side of the wafer which is followed by deposition of 500 1000 of silicon nitride . This is followed by deposition of 1000 of a doped polysilicon gate layer over the nitride layer and lithographic patterning of the polysilicon to remove it from over the p type contact regions.

The polysilicon layer is operated as a gate electrode. The gate electrode can be voltage controlled to achieve low dark current by depleting inverting or accumulating the sidewall surfaces depending on the mode of operation of the sensor. The gate electrode can also allow the sensor to operate for longer periods. That is the reaction products from conversion of the incident radiation are continuously implanted through the dual passivation layer which leads to charge and defect accumulation in these dielectrics as well as in the junction region. By electrically controlling the interface the consequent dark current can be at least partially suppressed.

With reference to a thin nitride layer is deposited patterned and etched to form openings for the electrical contacts. Contact metal is then deposited and patterned to form the contacts to the p type contact regions and to the gate electrode . With reference to the handle layer is then thinned from the back side until the bottoms of the pores are opened. A metal layer for making contact to the n type contact region is then deposited.

With reference to the pores are filled with converter material . In one example the pores are filled with a suspension of nanoparticles containing or consisting of boron 10 gadolinium 157 or tungsten. The processed wafer is then assembled onto a substrate such as the receiver plates referred to above.

J. A. Nelson et al. Solution Synthesis of Gadolinium Nanoparticles 9 Vol. 124 No. 12 2002 2979 2983 describes a method for preparing gadolinium nanoparticles that might be useful in the present context. The nanoparticles reported by Nelson et al. were prepared by alkalide reduction of gadolinium trichloride. The nanoparticles were initially recovered as metallic gadolinium. The nanoparticles oxidized to gadolinium oxide on exposure to air but remained as distinct spheroidal particles. The average diameter of the oxidized particles was about 12 nm. A suspension of such particles in a carrier fluid of e.g. methanol may be used to fill the pores in e.g. the device of .

The useful lifetime of a sensor such as the sensor of might be limited by the accumulation of defects in the passivation dielectrics and in the junction region. One consequence of aging which might limit the useful lifetime is increasing dark current. A high temperature anneal exemplarily at about 200 300 C. depending on device assembly and materials could possibly extend the lifetime by partly ameliorating some of these defects. However replacement might be necessary after the dark current has exceeded a certain threshold or after the device has completely degraded as evidenced e.g. by dielectric breakdown in the passivation films. It is noteworthy in this regard that the life of a highly pixellated detector might be extended by reconfiguring it to disable those pixels that exhibit unacceptably high dark current.

