---

title: In canopy bleed air actuator
abstract: A system is described to control the flight path of a parafoil. The physical control mechanism is a series of actuators embedded within the parafoil canopy that open a series of holes via slits in the upper surface of the parafoil canopy. Opening and closing the holes changes the forces and moments acting on the parafoil canopy in a consistent manner such that it can be used for flight control. The embedded actuator is attached to a structural cell wall of the parafoil canopy. A control line from the actuator extends through a ring attached to the leading edge of the slit in the upper surface of the parafoil canopy and back down to the lower surface of the parafoil canopy along the opposite side non-structural cell wall.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09428277&OS=09428277&RS=09428277
owner: Earthly Dynamics, LLC
number: 09428277
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140908
---
The work that lead to this invention was supported in part by the U.S. Army Natick Soldier Research Development and Engineering Center. Thus the United States Government may have certain rights to this invention.

The present invention relates to an actuator embedded within a parafoil of an aerial delivery system that controls a series of upper surface canopy spoilers.

Aerial payload delivery systems also known as ram canopy parachute systems offer the capability to deliver large payloads and or people to undeveloped or inaccessible locations. The canopies in these systems are well known and often referred to as parafoils from which payloads may be suspended via control lines. The parafoils are generally constructed of an upper canopy and a lower canopy connected by a cell structure also known as ribs that is well known in the art. The flexible parafoils provide aerodynamic lift by virtue of shape of the canopy and an alteration in the shape can greatly affect the directionality of the parafoil.

Several autonomous guided systems have been developed that use trailing edge brake deflection for lateral control by altering the shape of the parafoil that have been shown to increase landing accuracy. The control of internal air vented through the upper surface of the canopy creating aerodynamic spoilers has been shown to improve glide slope control. Such known autonomous systems have involved altering the control lines from a device such as an actuator on or within the payload to alter the shape of the parafoil. These known control lines create aerodynamic drag and can become tangled or damaged upon deployment resulting in loss of control and landing accuracy. Known control mechanisms for autonomous parafoils are heavy and expensive with limited performance.

Accordingly there is a need for an autonomous payload delivery system that is lightweight and small with increased aerodynamic efficiency and glide slope control enabling improvement in landing accuracy.

The present invention relates to an actuator system to control the flight path of a parafoil used in combination with upper surface canopy spoilers created by slits or incisions in the upper canopy. The physical control mechanism is an actuator embedded within the parafoil that opens a series of spoilers or slits in the upper surface releasing a portion of the ram air inflating the parafoil. The released ram air is known as bleed air. Opening and closing the spoilers by actuation alters the amount of bleed air and changes the forces and moments acting on the parafoil in a consistent manner such that it can be used for flight control.

The parafoil control system of the present invention comprises a parafoil and a plurality of upper canopy slits to create spoilers wherein each slit is connected to an actuator by a control line to control the parafoil improve glide slope control and improve landing accuracy and a control module for wireless communication with the actuator.

The parafoil of the present invention is a planform comprising an upper canopy and lower canopy attached by a cell structure thereby creating cell walls. Load bearing or structural cell walls are cell walls that have a payload control line at the intersection of the cell wall and the lower canopy. Non load bearing or non structural cell walls do not have a payload control line attached at the intersection of the lower canopy and the cell wall. The upper canopy of the parafoil comprises a plurality of spanwise slits perpendicular to the cells walls to create spoilers across a number of cells in the center section of the canopy. The length of the slits may span the entire length of the cell and the slits are located between 25 and 50 of chord length from the leading edge. Chord length is the distance from the leading edge of the parafoil to the trailing edge. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention slits are located across the center 56 of the constructed span of the canopy. In a further embodiment of the present invention an internal sealing flap is attached to the bottom of the upper canopy at the leading edge of the slit and extends across the slit to seal the slits when the spoilers are not actuated.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the actuator comprises a means to control actuation and further comprises a main housing unit a gear motor and means to control the motor a spool or winch drum electronics for control of the actuator and a means to provide power to the actuator. The actuator of the present invention may further comprise a power source comprising a Lithium ion polymer LiPo battery an embedded microprocessor and magnetic rotary encoder for position feedback control for the spool a transceiver for communication with the control module and a sleep mode that eliminates the need to turn on each actuator prior to flight. It is understood that any type of actuator may be used and that the power source for the actuator may be provided by any source of stored energy such as a solar kinetic or magnetic. The main housing unit of the preferred embodiment of the present is cylindrical and approximately four inches in height and one inch in diameter. However it is understood that actuator may be any aerodynamic shape or size and be made of any material that can withstand the payload delivery.

In the preferred embodiment of the present invention each actuator is embedded within the canopy containing a slit. Each actuator is attached to a structural cell wall and the lower canopy below the slit and is located generally beneath the slit preferably approximately the same chord length from the leading edge as the slit. A control line of a predetermined length is attached to the spool within each actuator and extends from the actuator through a small hole in the main housing. It is understood that the control line made be made of any suitable material such as nylon. A control line system comprises the control line at least one device such as a guide ring that is attached to the leading edge of the slit or to the trailing edge of the internal sealing flap wherein the control line from the actuator is threaded through the device and then the attachment of the control line to the parafoil at the intersection of the non structural cell wall opposite the actuator. Altering the length of the control line with the actuator wherein the control line is paid out and in causes the slits to be opened thereby creating aerodynamic spoilers that enable flight control. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the guide ring centrally located between the structural cell wall and the non structural cell wall.

A control module provides a wireless interface between a controller and the control electronics of the on canopy actuators. The controller may be positioned anywhere that can maintain a wireless interface between the controller and the on canopy actuators. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention each of the actuators may be controlled independently by the controller thereby allowing for symmetric and asymmetric actuation of the spoilers and individual control of the height of each spoiler.

Other aspects features and advantages will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the detailed description and accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the detailed description and accompanying drawings while indicating preferred embodiments of the present invention are given by way of illustration and not limitation.

