---

title: Methods of making and using a self adhering roofing membrane
abstract: A preformed, self adhering single ply roofing membrane includes a water impermeable membrane, a pressure sensitive, hot melt adhesive adhered to one side of the water impermeable membrane, and a release liner on the side of the pressure sensitive, hot melt adhesive opposite of the water impermeable membrane. Methods of making and using this roofing membrane are provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09528268&OS=09528268&RS=09528268
owner: FIRESTONE BUILDING PRODUCTS COMPANY, LLC
number: 09528268
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141005
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 834 330 filed 12 Jul. 2010 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 852 701 on 7 Oct. 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 461 327 filed 31 Jul. 2006 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 771 807 on 10 Aug. 2010 which is a division of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 153 132 filed 22 May 2002 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 101 598 on 5 Sep. 2006 the entire disclosures of each being incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to a self adhering membrane for roofing applications. More particularly the present invention relates to a preformed self adhering single ply roofing membrane including a pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive adhered to one side of a water impermeable membrane.

A roofing system generally includes a roof deck which is considered the structural supporting surface of a building extending between the surrounding exterior walls of the building. The roof deck may be constructed from plywood metal decking or concrete or any other suitable material. Depending upon the construction the roof deck may extend over the surrounding exterior walls or the roof deck may stop short of the exterior walls thereby forming a parapet wall i.e. a low retaining wall at the edge of the roof deck. If desired the roofing system may also include an insulation barrier formed from polyisocyanurate or any other suitable material applied over the roof deck.

To make the roof deck and building weather resistant a single ply roofing membrane is installed over the roof deck. The single ply roofing membrane refers to a water impermeable single sheet of polymeric material. The roofing membrane has heretofore been installed on the roof deck using a variety of different methods.

For example the field or interior of the roofing membrane may be held to the roof deck by the use of ballast and or penetrating or non penetrating fastener means as known in the art. An example of a penetrating fastener means for retaining the field of a roofing membrane installed to a roof deck is by utilizing a plurality of small circular metal plates having a hole in the center and a roofing screw or other suitable fastener. In order to anchor the roofing membrane the small circular metal plates are spaced apart in rows on the roofing membrane and the fastener is driven through the hole in each plate the roofing membrane any insulation material and into the roof deck. The metal plates are then covered by an overlapping roof membrane. An example of a non penetrating fastener means would include totally adhering the field of the roofing membrane to the roof deck.

Although the many known variations for attaching a roofing membrane to a roof deck have been proven to perform satisfactorily under certain conditions further improvements of attaching a roofing membrane to a roof deck are desired.

The present invention is directed to a self adhering membrane for roofing applications. More particularly the present invention relates to a preformed self adhering single ply roofing membrane including a pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive adhered to one side of a water impermeable membrane for application to a roofing deck and or a parapet wall to form a water impermeable roofing membrane.

Briefly the present invention relates to a preformed single ply roofing membrane including a water impermeable membrane a pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive adhered to one side of the water impermeable membrane wherein the pressure sensitive adhesive is free of a curing additive and a release liner on the side of the pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive opposite of the water impermeable membrane.

Referring to the figures wherein like reference characters represent like elements there is shown a preformed self adhering roofing membrane in accordance with the present invention. As noted the preformed self adhering roofing membrane includes a substrate sheet of water impermeable membrane a pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive adhered to one side of the water impermeable membrane and a release liner on the side of the pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive opposite of the water impermeable membrane.

The preformed self adhering roofing membrane is securely attached to a roof substrate comprising a roof deck or parapet wall or curb to form a water impervious structure. The roof deck and or parapet wall and or curb may be constructed from plywood metal decking or concrete or any other suitable material. On existing construction the self adhering roofing membrane may be applied to a smooth asphalt top surface. If desired the roofing system may also include an insulation barrier formed from polyisocyanurate or any other suitable material applied over the roof deck. A suitable primer may be used on the roof substrate surface to enhance the adhesion of the self adhering roof membrane.

The water impermeable membrane of the preformed self adhering roofing membrane is formed of for example appropriate thermosetting materials and thermoplastic materials including polyvinyl chloride PVC thermoplastic olefin TPO polyethylene and polypropylene chlorinated polyethylene CPE chlorosulfonated polyethylene CSPE and polyisobutylene PIB . Suitable thermosetting materials are EPDM butyl rubber and neoprene. These preformed self adhering single ply roofing membranes may or may not include reinforcing meshes or scrims located intermediate layers and of the material forming the single ply roofing membrane. The water impermeable membrane may range from about 0.020 0.090 inches thick preferably 0.045 0.090 inches thick.

The water impermeable membrane may range from about 6 inches 12 feet wide and of indeterminate length depending upon the intended application. For example when the preformed self adhering membrane is installed over the parapet wall or curb of a roofing installation the water impermeable membrane ranges from 6 inches 3 feet in width and indeterminate in length as desired.

Adhered to one side of the water impermeable membrane is the pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive . The pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive is applied directly to the water impermeable membrane using most any suitable method well known in the art. For example the pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive may be applied directly to the water impermeable membrane using a hot melt spray method or by using a slot die method as well known in the art. It will be appreciated that by applying the pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive directly to the water impermeable membrane better and more uniform bond strength may be achieved in contrast to the use of a transfer adhesive.

Pressure sensitive hot melt adhesives in accordance with the present invention are solvent free adhesives that are characteristically solid at temperatures below 180 F. are low viscosity fluids above 180 F. and rapidly set upon cooling. Exemplary of pressure sensitive hot melt adhesives are ethylene vinyl acetate EVA copolymers compatible with paraffin styrene isoprene styrene SIS copolymers styrene butadiene styrene SBS copolymers ethylene ethyl acrylate copolymers EEA and polyurethane reactive PUR butyl or halo butyl rubbers acrylic ethylene propylene rubber EPR ethylene propylene diene terpolymer rubber EPDM or styrene butadiene rubbers SBR and styrene ethylene butene styrene copolymers SEBS including a variety of tackifying resins and optionally waxes antioxidants plasticizers and other materials added to the adhesive formulation to enhance the polymer performance. In order to be considered useful for the preformed single ply roofing membrane in accordance with the present invention the pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive should not include a curing or cross linking agent whereby the adhesive maintains the desired thermoplastic properties. The pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive must have a minimum peel strength of 0.5 pounds per linear inch at 70 F. as determined in accordance with ASTM D 3330 for roofing applications.

By way of a representative example only a particular preferred pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive is PSA 3 Hot Melt Adhesive commercially available from ADCO Products Inc.

The pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive thickness may range from about 0.004 inches to 0.015 inches.

A release liner is applied against the pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive surface to prevent premature unwanted adhesion and in the case of rolls ease of unwind without sticking to the backing. Release liner is applied after the application of the pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive . For ease of application the release liner may be sliced into multiple sections to allow for portioned release of the liner from the water impermeable membrane during application of the preformed self adhering membrane . Release liner may comprise paper or polyethylene polypropylene or polyester films of a type well known in the art.

As shown in the water impermeable membrane pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive and release liner may be co extensive. During application two self adhering membranes may be joined by positioning the membranes in overlapping relation and then heat welding or adhesively bonding the overlapping edges or if the membranes are butted together a cover cap may be adhered or hot air welded over the seam. In alternate embodiment as shown in the release liner and pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive may be coextensive and the combined release liner and pressure sensitive adhesive may be spaced from at least one marginal edge of the water impermeable membrane to provide a free edge of water impermeable membrane. The free edge of water impermeable membrane may overlap an adjacent water impermeable membrane and be either hot air welded or solvent based adhered or tape adhered to the overlapped membrane depending upon the type of water impermeable membrane to be joined. In yet another embodiment as shown in the pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive and the release liner may be coextensive and the combined release liner and pressure sensitive adhesive may be spaced from at least one marginal edge of the water impermeable membrane. The free edge of water impermeable membrane includes a cured pressure sensitive adhesive composition including a release liner as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 242 727 incorporated herein by reference. The preformed self adhering membranes may be joined together by overlapping the cured pressure sensitive adhesive and the water impermeable membrane and then removing a release liner and pressing adhesive of one membrane against the other membrane.

The preformed self adhering membrane as shown in the figures is joined to the roof substrate by removing the release liner and then pressing the pressure sensitive hot melt adhesive directly to the roof substrate.

Having described presently preferred embodiments of the invention the invention may be otherwise embodied within the scope of the appended claims.

While the invention has been specifically described in connection with certain specific embodiments thereof it is to be understood that this is by way of illustration and not of limitation and the scope of the appended claims should be construed as broadly as the prior art will permit.

