---

title: Interactive venue assistant
abstract: Methods and systems for assisting a user at an event and venue are described. A user is guided or navigated to different points of interest at a venue. The points of interest include seat locations or surrounding services and facilities, such as restaurants, shops, and restrooms. Advertisements and promotions associated with surrounding services may be displayed to the user. The user may be notified of the presence of friends and family at the same venue, and be provided with real-time information about the event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09310205&OS=09310205&RS=09310205
owner: STUBHUB, INC.
number: 09310205
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140220
---
The present invention generally relates to providing an augmented reality experience and location based services for a user at an event such as a sports game theater event or concert.

An individual attending a real time event in person may desire information related to the real time event such as the services available at the location or venue of the real time event and any friends that are present at the location of the real time event. Further the individual may desire that information in such a way as to augment his or her viewing of the environment at the event. Conventionally the desired information may be provided in a venue map or guide with details regarding food offerings merchandise stores restrooms and ATM locations. This information however is not presented to the user in a useful form and is not catered to the user s personal choices. Accordingly it would be beneficial to deliver more personalized information to the user to assist the user at an event and venue.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure describes techniques for assisting a user at a venue with an augmented reality environment. Augmented reality provides a user with a live view of a physical real world environment augmented with artificial computer generated sound video and or graphic information. A device typically displays the live view of the physical real world environment on a screen or the like and the artificial computer generated information is overlaid on the user s live view of the physical real world environment.

Augmented reality can be incorporated and used on smartphones and other user devices. Mobile devices especially wearable ones that may be in the form of eyewear e.g. Google Glass mobile enabled wrist watches or head mounted displays are available to provide augmented reality experiences to users. Such devices typically include display technology by which computer information is overlaid on the scene in front of the user.

In an augmented reality environment relevant information regarding a location event and or venue can be rendered or presented to the user so as to augment the user s view of the location event and or venue. Such information or data can be about a person place or object that is in or near a particular geographical location. Further the device can assist the user at the venue by providing information that is relevant to a specific time e.g. before during or after the event . For example the device may determine that a break or intermission is coming up and recommend a bathroom or snack break to the user.

The present disclosure provides systems and methods that guide or navigate users to points of interest at a venue for an event and or provide other relevant information. For example the methods may provide directions to the user wherein the directions are overlaid on the user s view of the environment. In other examples the methods and systems help users discover surrounding restaurants shops restrooms and other services and facilities at a venue. In some embodiments the contacts in the user s social network that are present at the venue can be automatically detected and the user can share his or her experience and view his or her contacts experience. In addition the methods and systems may provide real time information about the event in the venue and recommend product and or services with coupons discounts or other promotions.

In various embodiments when a user requests information regarding a specific point of interest the methods and systems take the information for that point of interest and anticipate what the user may request next. For example if the user asks the device for a restaurant that is kid friendly the device may also display information associated with kid friendly activities at the venue such as playgrounds or parks. In another example if the user has requested a place that serves drinks the device may note the nearest restroom when the user passes by or when a break is close.

Beginning with an exemplary embodiment of a computing system adapted for implementing one or more processes involving assisting a user at an event is illustrated in block diagram format. As shown computing system may comprise or implement a plurality of servers and or software components that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary servers may include for example stand alone and enterprise class servers operating a server OS such as a MICROSOFT OS a UNIX OS a LINUX OS or other suitable server based OS. It can be appreciated that the servers illustrated in may be deployed in other ways and that the operations performed and or the services provided by such servers may be combined or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of servers. One or more servers may be operated and or maintained by the same or different entities.

Computing system can include among various devices servers databases and other elements a user that may comprise or employ one or more user devices such as a mobile computing device a wearable computing device such as a smart watch or smart goggles a PC and or any other computing device having computing and or communications capabilities in accordance with the described embodiments. User devices generally may provide one or more user programs such as system programs and application programs to perform various computing and or communications operations. Exemplary system programs may include without limitation an operating system e.g. MICROSOFT OS UNIX OS LINUX OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and others device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. Exemplary application programs may include without limitation a web browser application messaging applications e.g. e mail IM SMS MMS telephone voicemail VoIP video messaging contacts application calendar application electronic document application database application media application e.g. music video television location based services LBS application e.g. GPS mapping directions point of interest locator and so forth. One or more of user programs may display various graphical user interfaces GUIs to present information to and or receive information from one or more of user devices .

User device in one embodiment includes a geo location component adapted to monitor and provide an instant geographical location i.e. geo location of the user device . In one implementation the geo location of the user device may include global positioning system GPS coordinates zip code information area code information street address information and or various other generally known types of geo location information. In one example the geo location information may be directly entered into the user device by a user via a user input component such as a keyboard touch display and or voice recognition microphone. In another example the geo location information may be automatically obtained and or provided by the user device via an internal or external GPS monitoring component. In other embodiments the geo location can be automatically obtained without the use of GPS. In some instances cell signals or wireless signals are used. This helps to save battery life and to allow for better indoor location where GPS typically does not work.

In one aspect when interfacing with the user device the user may elect to provide or may be prompted to provide permission for the release of geo location information. Accordingly the user may have exclusive authority to allow transmission of geo location information from the user device to the network based system . In any instance the network based system may communicate with the user device via the network and request permission to acquire geo location information from the user device for geo location based mobile commerce.

As shown user can be communicatively coupled via one or more networks to a network based system managed by an online service provider such as for example StubHub Inc. of San Francisco Calif. Network based system may be structured arranged and or configured to allow user to establish one or more communication sessions with network based system using various computing devices and or user programs . Accordingly a communication session between user and network based system may involve the unidirectional and or bidirectional exchange of information and may occur over one or more types of networks depending on the mode of communication. While the embodiment of illustrates a computing system deployed in a user server operating environment it is to be understood that other suitable operating environments and or architectures may be used in accordance with the described embodiments.

Data and or voice communications between user and the network based system may be sent and received over one or more networks such as the Internet a WAN a WWAN a WLAN a mobile telephone network a landline telephone network a VoIP network as well as other suitable networks. For example user may communicate with network based system over the Internet or other suitable WAN by sending and or receiving information via interaction with a web site e mail IM session and or video messaging session. Any of a wide variety of suitable communication types between user and system can take place as will be readily appreciated.

In various embodiments computing system can include among other elements a third party which may comprise or employ a third party server hosting a third party application . In various implementations third party server and or third party application may host a web site associated with or employed by a third party . For example third party server and or third party application may enable network based system to provide user with additional services and or information such as additional ticket inventory. In some embodiments one or more of user programs may be used to access network based system via third party . For example user may use a web user to access and or receive content from network based system after initially communicating with a web site of third party .

Network based system may comprise one or more communication servers to provide suitable interfaces that enable communication using various modes of communication and or via one or more networks . Communication servers can include a web server an API server and or a messaging server to provide interfaces to one or more application servers . Application servers of network based system may be structured arranged and or configured to provide various online marketplace and or ticket fulfillment services to users that access network based system . In various embodiments user may communicate with application servers of network based system via one or more of a web interface provided by web server a programmatic interface provided by API server and or a messaging interface provided by messaging server . It can be appreciated that web server API server and messaging server may be structured arranged and or configured to communicate with various types of user devices and or user programs and may interoperate with each other in some implementations.

Web server may be arranged to communicate with web users and or applications such as a web browser web browser toolbar desktop widget mobile widget web based application web based interpreter virtual machine and so forth. API server may be arranged to communicate with various user programs and or a third party application comprising an implementation of API for network based system . Messaging server may be arranged to communicate with various messaging users and or applications such as e mail IM SMS MMS telephone VoIP video messaging and so forth and messaging server may provide a messaging interface to enable access by user and or third party to the various services and functions provided by application servers .

When implemented as an online ticket marketplace application servers of network based system may provide various online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services including for example account services buying services selling services listing catalog services dynamic content management services delivery services payment services and notification services. Application servers may include an account server a buying server a selling server a listing catalog server a dynamic content management server a payment server a notification server and or a delivery server structured and arranged to provide such online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services. Application servers are adapted to receive ticket information associated with an event provide a user with information on a specific point of interest based on the ticket information and navigate the user to the specific point of interest. Points of interest include the location of friends and or family restaurants restrooms and or attractions at a venue. Based on the points of interest application servers can propose and recommend user actions at the venue.

Application servers may be coupled to and capable of accessing one or more databases including a subscriber database an active events database and or a transaction database . Databases generally may store and maintain various types of information for use by application servers and may comprise or be implemented by various types of computer storage devices e.g. servers memory and or database structures e.g. relational object oriented hierarchical dimensional network in accordance with the described embodiments.

Continuing with an exemplary computer system suitable for implementing one or more devices of the computing system in is depicted in block diagram format. In various implementations a device that includes computer system may comprise a personal computing device e.g. a smartphone a computing tablet a personal computer laptop PDA Bluetooth device key FOB badge etc. that is capable of communicating with a network. The service provider may utilize a network computing device e.g. a network server capable of communicating with the network. It should be appreciated that each of the devices utilized by users and service providers may be implemented as computer system in a manner as follows.

Computer system can include a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a payment provider server via a network. In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices over a network via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise.

The various features and steps described herein may be implemented as systems comprising one or more memories storing various information described herein and one or more processors coupled to the one or more memories and a network wherein the one or more processors are operable to perform steps as described herein as non transitory machine readable medium comprising a plurality of machine readable instructions which when executed by one or more processors are adapted to cause the one or more processors to perforin a method comprising steps described herein and methods performed by one or more devices such as a hardware processor user device server and other devices described herein.

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for assisting a user at an event is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. It should be appreciated that the method illustrated in the embodiment of may be implemented by the systems illustrated in according to one or more embodiments.

The method begins at step where the user provides ticket information associated with an event to a service provider. Ticket information includes but is not limited to the event the venue the time artist duration of the event seat information e.g. section row and number etc. For example the user can open up a mobile application or app run by the service provider and choose a specific ticket from a list or the user may scan a physical ticket to provide the ticket information.

At step the service provider determines a location of the user through the user device . The user device in one embodiment includes a location determination device e.g. a GPS device a cell tower triangulation system device and or a variety of other location determination devices known in the art that is operable to determine a current location of user device .

The user may release geo location information to the service provider by for example setting release parameters. In one aspect the user geo location information includes user information related to a physical location or position of the user device which is passed to the network based system via the network . The user geo location information may include GPS coordinates e.g. longitude and latitude inherent to the user device such as a mobile cellular phone and or zip code information. The user geo location information may include user identifier information identifying the user . The user may manually set geo location information such as a zip code and or longitude and latitude coordinates.

At step the service provider navigates or guides the user to his or her seat. The service provider may have earlier received from the user the user s seating at the venue to use as needed or may have obtained the user s seating by having access to seats purchased by the user . In an embodiment the user requests the service provider through the mobile application to take the user to his or her seat. In another embodiment the application automatically pops up on the user device when the user enters the venue and asks the user if the user wants to be taken to his or her seat.

In one embodiment the user may use the camera of user device such as an iPhone or an iPad to receive directions. For example the display of the user device may show arrows or a map to augment the user s view of the venue. In one example a two dimensional indoor map of the venue augments the user s view of the venue on the user device along with arrows that point in the direction the user should be walking. In still another embodiment directions may be provided based on the user s preferences previously sent to the system . For instance if the user requires elevators the directions will point the user in the direction that includes elevators. If the user needs a ramp the directions point the user to the ramps. Otherwise the mobile application may be free to point out directions using stairs.

In some embodiments service provider overlays the time left and distance to the seat on the user s view. For example the distance left to get to the seat may be displayed as 150 meters and the time to get to the seat may be displayed as 2 minutes. As the user gets closer to his or her seat the time and distance decrease. In various embodiments the service provider determines the walking speed of the user and employs this information to provide an estimate of how much longer and how much farther it will take for the user to get to his or her seat. In one or more embodiments a radar map is also overlaid on the user s view.

The route or directions for the user to get to the seat may vary depending on different factors such as time remaining before the event starts time remaining before doors close congestion along one or more areas along a potential route etc. For example the user may be provided a longer route in terms of distance but shorter in terms of time required to get to the seat based on the longer route having less congestion along the way especially if the event is about to start or doors are about to close. If there is plenty of time before the user should be at the seat the route may provide suggestions for restrooms and or concession stands that are less congested along the way to the seat. This may prompt the user to go to the restroom and or make a food drink purchase because the user is made aware and realizes there is time before the event starts. As such the route may depend on the user s current location the location of the seat time until the event estimated time for the user to arrive at the seat and congestion along a route or at restrooms concession stands or other areas along a route.

When the service provider detects that the user has arrived at his or her seat the mobile application may display a message or icon on the user device to remind the user that he or she has arrived at the seat and prompt the user to take a picture of the view from the seat. The app may then suggest sharing the picture on the user s social networks.

At step based on the location e.g. venue of the user device the event at the venue and or the time the service provider provides information regarding points of interest at the specific venue. Points of interest include where contacts e.g. friends or family are seated or located food service providers or retail stores surrounding facilities e.g. restrooms ATMs pay phones water fountains etc. attractions e.g. displays shows presentations etc. and landmarks.

In one embodiment an iPhone or iPad may function as a set of eyeglasses providing the user with information relevant to the user s personal choices as the user moves the user device from place to place within the venue. For instance as the user walks out of the user s seating section the user device may show the location of places that the user may be interested in for example the closest bathroom the bathroom with the shortest lines that is still nearby the user or a bathroom that is outfitted for the handicapped and guide the user to the place s . The guidance or route may depend on factors such as described earlier. For example if the event is still going on e.g. not during an intermission or stoppage of play the user may be directed to locations that will enable the user to get back to the seat as soon as possible such as restrooms and or concession stands that may be a bit farther but have much shorter lines or no lines. If the user is leaving during an intermission or stoppage of play the system may estimate how long before the event resumes in order to provide a more intelligent route. For example if the user is leaving at the start of halftime of a football game the user may be provided a route that is not as time sensitive as if the user is leaving a baseball game between innings. This can be done by the camera of the user device .

The user can configure the app to provide information based on previously provided information regarding the user and specific points of interest. For example the user may indicate whether there are any infants children disabled or elderly people in the party. The user may also have input specific points of interest before entering the venue such as type and location of a restaurant e.g. kid friendly handicap accessible etc. bathrooms handicapped bathrooms an exit closest to where the user is parked and the like. The user may then send the system a request for the desired information to augment the reality of his or her view of the venue.

In another embodiment the user can request the information in real time. For example as the user walks away from his or her seat and towards concessions or restrooms the user can request general information e.g. Let me see all the restrooms or Let me see all the restaurants or specific information Notify me when I am within 100 meters of a place that sells food . In response to the general request the service provider can display a list of restrooms at the venue their distance from the user and whether they are busy or vacant. The service provider can also display a list of food service providers at the venue their distance from the user and any promotions e.g. coupons deals sales etc. associated with the food service provider. In an embodiment the information is arranged and displayed based on the distance from the user .

In one embodiment the service provider provides information to the user based on the user s position in the venue. For example as the user walks by a restaurant within the venue a message relating to the restaurant can be presented on the user device including any related advertising.

Other embodiments may include the user requesting the service provider to display the shortest path out of the venue to where the user parked his or her car. The service provider may receive a feed of road traffic and the user could request the parking lot exit from which to leave in order to encounter the least traffic the fastest way home or the route that has the least traffic or the route that passes a particular restaurant or that passes several restaurants on the way home and the service provider could respond with that information for display on the user device .

Another embodiment may show the user for example by arrows where friends of the user are seated in the stands of the venue and show the distance to the friends seats. This may be implemented as one example by the user sending the service provider a query for the seat location of a friend. Responsive to this query the service provider may read the friend s phone number from the user s cell phone contact list and in conjunction with a GPS satellite system determine the seat location generally or specifically of the cell phone that has the friend s phone number. The service provider may then respond to the user with information as to the friend s seat location including if desired placing an arrow on the display of the user device pointing to the location of the friend s seat augmenting the viewer s personal reality of viewing the venue live.

In an alternate embodiment instead of GPS technology the service provider may have stored in its database the names of people who purchased the various seats for the event and may then upon request for the seating of a particular person search for the name of that person to find the person s seat location. Again if desired an arrow pointing to the seat location may be placed upon the image of the user device in order to augment the reality of the live viewing of the venue.

In yet another embodiment the friend may have posted on a social network such as Facebook the section row and seat number where that friend will be sitting. The user may then read this seating off the friend s Facebook wall and send that information to the service provider for use by the service provider in augmenting the user device by as one example pointing on the device s display to the point in the venue where that seating is located.

Advantageously the app can determine what information to provide and display to the user based not only on the venue and event but also on the time. Because the service provider knows what event the user is at the service provider understands event timing e.g. before the event during the event intermission interlude interval after the event etc. . Because the service provider knows what venue the user is located in the service provider knows what services and products are available to the user . Combining knowledge of the particular venue event and time the app can recommend or push information relevant to the user for that specific time specific event and specific location.

For example assume the user requests the app to find a place to grab a snack during a concert. The app determines the time of the request e.g. during the concert and because most concert goers are enjoying the concert and not buying food the app directs and navigates the user to the closest concession stand. In another embodiment the user requests the app to find a place to eat but the request is received during intermission in the concert. In this case the app may direct the user away from food services that are closest to the seats away from the crowds.

In various embodiments the app determines the current time and pushes notifications and or advertisements to the user . The app can guess what the user can do at a certain time and provide promotions that are relevant for that time. For example the app determines that the user has free time because there is an intermission. The app can present opportunities to fill the time such as shopping dining visiting the restroom making a call etc. The app can also provide promotions that can be used during that time e.g. 20 discount on hot dogs before the start of the third basketball quarter . In another example the user is a big fan of a sports team the game has not started yet and the user is passing by a souvenir shop so the app proposes that the user stop and spend some time browsing in the shop.

In other embodiments the app can guess what the user wants to do based on information it has received from the user at the venue. For example suppose that the user has requested a place that provides drinks a few times and the user has purchased a couple of sodas. The app can suggest the nearest restroom when the user passes by or when a break or intermission is close.

The app can further provide real time event information and updates to the user such as sports scores. In the specific example of a car racing event the real time information can include the current ranking number of laps remaining participants still in the race participants no longer in the race fastest lap of the current leader or of anyone of the participants average speed of the current leader or of anyone of the participants among others present speed of any one of the participants and Revolutions Per Minute RPM of the engine of anyone of the participants.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity and understanding it will be recognized that the above described invention may be embodied in numerous other specific variations and embodiments without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics of the invention. Various changes and modifications may be practiced and it is understood that the invention is not to be limited by the foregoing details but rather is to be defined by the scope of the claims.

