---

title: Surface plasmon resonance biosensor
abstract: An optical biosensor is provided for detecting a bio-molecular sample by Goos-Hänchen (GH) enhancement of Aharonov-Albert-Vaidman (AAV) amplification to a surface plasmon resonance (SPR) detector. The sensor includes pre- and post-selection polarizers respectively upstream and downstream of a right-isosceles prism with a metal film and a liquid medium disposed on a diagonal side of the prism. Laser light passes through the first polarizer, reflects at the film, passes through the second polarizer and is detected with a shift determined by a pointer estimator to indicate the sample.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09116122&OS=09116122&RS=09116122
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09116122
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140219
---
The invention is a Continuation in Part claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 135 974 filed Jul. 6 2011 published as U.S. Patent Application Publication 2012 0314215 and assigned Navy Case 100288 which claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 134 486 filed Jun. 6 2011 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 493 066 and assigned Navy Case 99670.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to a biosensor based on amplification by weak quantum measurements. In particular the biosensor uses the Aharonov Albert Vaidman AAV effect to amplify the surface plasmon resonance SPR enhanced Goos H nchen GH effect hereafter this biosensor can be referred to as the hybrid SPR GH AAV biosensor or more simply as the hybrid biosensor.

The GH effect constitutes the small undetectable splitting of a polarized laser beam in response to total internal reflection of the beam. A thin gold film disposed upon the surface of a total internal reflection prism provides an SPR enhancement of the GH effect i.e. the film increases the splitting of the incident laser beam. This splitting is proportional to the concentration of bio molecules adhering to the gold film i.e. the greater the concentration the greater the splitting. Although this splitting is small for low concentrations of bio molecules application of the AAV effect can amplify the splitting. The hybrid sensor thereby enables the detection of extremely small heretofore undetectable concentrations of bio molecules.

Optical biosensors are used to identify unknown biological hazards to facilitate effective mitigation upon discovery. A summary of such conventional devices is presented by X. Fan et al. Sensitive Optical Biosensors for Unlabeled Targets A Review 620 8 26 2008 available at http www.bme.umich.edu labs fanlab files prj2008 sensitive optical biosensors for u nlabeled targets a review.pdf.

Signal amplification by the Aharonov Albert Vaidman AAV effect has been used for measurement augmentation based on the weak value Aof a quantum mechanical observable operator . The AAV effect is described by Y. Aharonov at al. How the Result of a Measurement of a Component of the Spin of a Spin 1 2 Particle Can Turn Out To Be 100 1988 60 1351 1354 available at http www.tau.ac.il vaidman lvhp m8.pdf or else http prl.aps.org pdf PRL v60 i14 p13511 for details.

Further information on the AAV effect can be found in Y. Aharonov et al. Properties Of A Quantum System During The Time Interval Between Two Measurements 41 11 20 1990 available for example at http xa.yimg.com kq groups 2385221 367896748 name Aharonovweaknessmeasureme ntPhysRevA.41.11.pdf and A. Parks D. Cullin and D. Stoudt Observation and Measurement of an Optical Aharonov Albert Vaidman effect A 454 2997 3008 1998 available at http www.jstor.org stable 53338 and at http rspa.royalsocietypublishing.org content 454 1979 2997.full.pdf.

Optical sensors using surface plasmon resonance SPR have been used for the direct detection of bio molecules at surfaces since the mid 1980s. Such SPR sensors are generally comprised of three integrated portions the optical detection component ODC the liquid management component LMC and the collection surface component CSC . More specifically typical SPR sensors are total internal reflection devices with a thin gold or silver film deposited upon the surface of a high dielectric medium. This represents the front interface and that associated with the other side of the film is the rear interface.

When a beam of monochromatic transverse magnetic light is incident from the high dielectric medium upon the metallic film interface at an angle greater than or equal to the critical angle such that the light s magnetic field vector is parallel to the interface surface an optically induced longitudinal oscillation of free electrons in the metal film resonantly transfers energy from the light to the surface plasmon wave propagating along the interface. This interaction is sensitive to changes in the reflective index of the medium at the rear interface e.g. produced by bio molecules introduced by the LMC that adhere to a metallic film which serves as the CSC and yields a reduction in the intensity of the reflected light as a response to changes in the reflective index.

Consequently the presence of bio molecular species at the rear interface is heralded by changes in the light intensity reflected at an angle at or near . Such optical SPR sensors are generally referred to as attenuated total reflection ATR devices. The SPR phenomenon is described by B. Liedberg et al. Surface Plasmon Resonance for Gas Detection and Biosensing 4 299 304 1983 .

Conventional biosensors yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular a biosensor is provided for an optical biosensor for detecting a cellular sample deposited in a liquid medium. The biosensor includes a laser source a collimating lens pre and post selection polarizers an optical right isosceles prism a metal film disposed between the prism and the liquid medium a photon detector and a pointer estimator.

The laser source emits a photon beam in an axial direction into an ambient medium a collimating lens disposed perpendicular to the axial direction. to concentrate the beam. The pre selection polarizer is disposed perpendicular to the beam to polarize the beam by angle . The optical right isosceles prism has a dielectric constant greater than the ambient medium and includes incident and exodus sides perpendicular to each other and an opposite diagonal side.

The beam enters the prism through the incident side reflects by the diagonal side and exits towards a lateral direction through the exodus side. The metal film is disposed on the diagonal side to provide surface plasmon resonance SPR amplification of a Goos H chen GH effect. The liquid medium is disposed along the metal film opposite the diagonal side with the sample adjacent the metal film.

The post selection polarizer is disposed perpendicular to the lateral direction to polarize the beam by angle . The photon detector detects photons from the beam. The pointer estimator measures a mean intensity and determines a GH shift that translates from a zero position corresponding to the mean intensity absent the sample on the metal film.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

In accordance with a presently preferred embodiment of the present invention the components process steps and or data structures may be implemented using various types of operating systems computing platforms computer programs and or general purpose machines. In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that devices of a less general purpose nature such as hardwired devices or the like may also be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the inventive concepts disclosed herewith. General purpose machines include devices that execute instruction code. A hardwired device may constitute an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a field programmable gate array FPGA or other related component.

An exemplary optical detection component ODC for a biosensor applies Aharonov Albert Vaidman AAV amplification to the surface plasmon resonance SPR enhanced Goos H nchen GH effect enables detection of extremely small concentrations of bio molecules deposited on the rear interface of the metallic film. The GH effect is described by F. Goos et al. Ein Neuer and Fundamentaler Versuch Zur Totalreflexion 6 1 333 346 1947 available at http onlinelibrary.wiley.com doi 10.1002 andp.19474360704 pdf.

Two important experiments recently reported in the physics literature support the concept of a simple optical hybrid biosensor with a detection sensitivity greatly exceeding that of conventional SPR biosensors. The first of these experiments showed that SPR greatly enhances the GH effect for ATR as reported by X. Yin et al. Goos H nchen shift surface plasmon resonance sensor 89 261108 2006 . The second experiment demonstrated that the AAV effect can be used to amplify the GH effect as reported in G. Jayaswal at al. Weak Measurement of the Goos H nchen shift 38 1232 1234 2013 available at http arxiv.org pdf 1301.0788v4.pdf.

The GH effect can be combined with SPR enhancement to further refine sensitivity. While the law of reflection that declares the angle of incidence equals the angle of reflection is true for plane waves e.g. geometric optics this statement is only approximately valid for transversely finite light beams that undergo total internal reflection at a dielectric interface. In the example under disclosure the center of the reflected beam is spatially translated in the plane of incidence relative to that of the reflected beam. This extremely small translation results from an exponentially decreasing evanescent wave induced by the partial penetration of the beam s electromagnetic field across the interface.

The associated Poynting vector is static and directed along the interface so that the reflected energy flux is spatially translated by a small distance with respect to the reflected geometric optics beam i.e. the reflected beam exhibits the GH effect by undergoing a GH translation. If the incident beam is a superposition of linear polarizations parallel to the plane of incidence p polarization as well as orthogonal to it s polarization then the p s polarized photons yield a reflected beam which is translated a small distance D D . In general translation in perpendicular is much less than parallel to the incidence plane or D

A relatively simple experimental apparatus employed in Yin 2006 demonstrates that the increased energy penetration induced in ATR devices by SPR greatly enhances the otherwise extremely small GH translation distances. There a 980 nm wavelength laser with 200 m beam waist was used to excite SPR in an ATR device containing glass and water media separated by a gold film 42 nm thick. The resonance incidence angle was fine tuned by rotating the ATR using a motorized rotational stage and a fluidic cell was mounted on top of the ATR in order to infuse chemicals along the rear interface of the gold film. The GH shift was determined by light intensity collected by a detector.

Infusing various concentrations of sodium chloride NaCl in an inert aqueous solution into the fluidic cell at the rear interface shifts the associated GH by 39 m

AAV Amplification of the GH shift further enhances signal sensitivity. In Jayaswal 2013 the AAV effect was used to greatly amplify the extremely small GH shifts. This was accomplished using an apparatus based upon the simple AAV effect canonical architecture. In particular a laser source emitted a collimated Gaussian beam of 826 nm wavelength classically intense laser light beam with a 260 n beam waist x. After transiting a pre selection linear polarizer with first angle setting the beam traversed a total internal reflection TIR prism that produced small lateral GH displacements Dand Dfor the p and s polarization components of the light.

The beam then passed through a post selection linear polarizer with second angle setting and the emerging light was collected by a detector. The mean position of the intensity profile of the light at the detector i.e. the pointer of the apparatus yielded the GH shift D D. When first angle

After transiting the pre selection polarizer but prior to passing through the prism the system is in the tensor product state . 3 where denotes a Gaussian pointer. Interaction of a photon with the prism yields the entangled state 

Upon post selection of the polarization state can be expressed as 6 based on the second angle setting. Consequently the entangled state in eqn. 4 becomes 

In order for the measurement to be weak the weakness conditions must be satisfied. These weakness conditions involve inequalities described in Parks 1998 and by I. Duck et al. The Sense In Which A Weak Measurement Of A Spin 1 2 Particle s Spin Component Yields A Value 100 40 2112 2117 1989 available at http prd.aps.org pdf PRD v40 i6 p21121. For strength Y simultaneously satisfying the associated inequalities 

The associated intensity profile in the x direction is x x S x 14 and corresponds to a broad single peaked Gaussian with its pointer position translated from its initial zero value to the new mean position 15 such that intensity pointer value as a mean position corresponds to the weak polarization measurement.

Using their simple canonical AAV TIR apparatus and selecting 0.01 radian the experimentalists in Jayaswal 2013 successfully demonstrated hundred fold AAV effect amplifications of extremely small constraint values ranging from 2500 nm at a 42 incidence angle to 250 nm at a 46 incidence angle.

Hybrid AAV GH SPR Biosensors can thereby be synthesized. The afore described analysis strongly indicates that a hybrid biosensor employing the AAV effect to amplify the SPR enhanced GH effect greatly outperforms the ability of standard SPR sensors to detect extremely small concentrations of bio molecules collected by their CSC components corresponding to GH shifts much smaller than 10.4 m.

The FIG. illustrates a schematic view for such an exemplary biosensor. A compass rose defines the Cartesian axes of the laboratory reference frame i.e. x up y out of page and z right directions. A laser emits photons in the z direction to form a coherent light beam that reaches a first slit screen that includes an aperture through which the beam passes.

A lens collimates the beam which then passes through a pre selection polarizer to reach at an angle greater than or equal to the associated critical angle a TIR prism comprising a high dielectric constant medium relative to the ambient environment. The prism constitutes a right isosceles prism configuration and reflects the incident light beam along a surface opposite to and diagonal from sides that receive the incident beam along the reflected exodus path . The prism rotates the reference frame by i.e. clockwise following the beam for the x right and z down directions along the path .

A thin gold or silver film is deposited upon the prism along its diagonal side and provides the SPR enhancement of the GH effect produced by the interaction between the laser beam and the prism . A biological sample for detection is contained in a liquid and controlled by the LMC . The liquid is disposed adjacent to and disposed along the film opposite the prism and a portion of the biological sample within the liquid adheres to the film .

Upon reflection of the incident beam by the prism the reflected beam along the exodus path passes through a post selection polarizer to encounter a second slit screen and pass through its window . The photons in the reflected beam reach a photon detector which then responds to indicate a pointer shift to the mean intensity estimator . The detector can preferably represent a charge coupled device CCD or a split detector. Mean intensity refers to the surface position on the detector of the maximum or peak of the laser light s photon distribution along the x axis. The zero position corresponds to the location on the detector of the peak distribution without a GH shift. The SPR enhanced AAV amplification of the GH shift laterally translates the mean intensity away from the zero. The magnitude of this translation is proportional to the GH shift and depends upon the amount of the sample on the gold film .

As can be seen the sensor architecture in view the simple canonical AAV amplifier used in Jayaswal 2013 can be used to amplify GH shift but modified to SPR enhance the GH effect via the thin gold film attached to the rear of the TIR prism and in front of the LMC . Consequently the exemplary theory describes the properties of this hybrid sensor and its pointer position i.e. the mean of the intensity profile at the detector as determined by the pointer estimator corresponds to the AAV amplified SPR enhanced GH shift when the pre and post selection polarizers and are set to angles

To achieve AAV amplification the interaction of coherent photons in the light beam with the TIR prism must be weak and correspond to a weak measurement of the polarization difference operator circumflex over . For this to occur the weakness conditions must be satisfied. Because strength

Assuming that 0.01 radian and that the sensor x 260 m corresponds to the beam waist x used in Jayaswal 2013 then AAV amplification is achieved when the constraint 

As observed from eqn. 13 after AAV amplification the translated intensity profile is attenuated by the factor cos 20 so that when

The combined component of the TIR prism and the gold film in the hybrid sensor becomes an ATR device by inducing SPR via the incident light beam . This further reduces the measured light intensity beyond the attenuation produced by the nearly crossed pre and post selection polarizers and . This combined attenuation can be obviated by selecting appropriate tradeoffs between input laser power the angle selected the thickness of the gold film and the angle of the light.

The SPR enhanced GH shifts measured by Yin 2006 ranged between 39 m and 44 m. The non SPR enhanced GH shifts measured by Jayaswal 2013 using the AAV effect ranged between 250 nm 0.25 nm and 2500 nm 2.5 m. The hybrid biosensor should be able to measure SPR enhanced GH shifts two or three orders of magnitudes smaller than 10 400 nm 10.4 m i.e. in the range between 10.4 nm 0.0104 m and 104 nm 0.104 m.

This level of performance for the biosensor follows from the weakness condition constraint required to ensure that the measurement is weak i.e. eqn. 18 when the hybrid biosensor is tuned to use typical values for the polarization angle difference and laser beam waist x.

Consequently for angular difference 0.01 radian and beam waist x 260 m then the SPR enhanced GH shift must satisfy inequality 

Of course simultaneous satisfaction of the two inequalities of eqn. 8 ensures that the measurement is a weak measurement. When the interaction Y is very small then the interaction can be detected by increasing weak value to be large enough to observe the pointer shift AAV amplification is used to detect strength Y. Specifically AAV amplification occurs for weak measurements i.e. 1 when the numerator in eqn. 11 is on the order of unity i.e. 1 and the denominator is small i.e. 

For the biosensor the pre and post selected polarization states for the photons in the laser beam are given by respective eqns. 2 and 6 observable is given by eqn. 5 and strength by eqn. 16 . Applying these to eqn. 15 and using the specified settings for the polarizer angles and so that the pre and post selected polarization states are radians away from being orthogonal the pointer is shifted by

Application to the general weakness conditions of eqn. 8 shows that both inequalities are satisfied and the biosensor is making weak measurements when eqn. 19 is satisfied. Substitution of typically used achievable values for at 0.01 radian and for the beam waist x at 260 m into eqn. 19 shows that weak measurements and AAV amplification occur when GH shifts are considerably less than 10.4 m. This defines the expected theoretical range of GH shifts that can be detected using AAV amplification typically 10to 10times less than 10.4 m . The size of the SPR enhanced GH shift varies directly with the concentration of bio molecules adhering to the surface of the gold film the higher the concentration the larger the GH shift. Thus using SPR enhanced GH shifts to detect the presence of bio molecules adhering to the gold film absent AAV amplification enables detection of the smallest concentrations as producing about 39 m GH shifts.

Although smaller concentrations nonetheless yield GH shifts such shifts would not be detectable. However by using exemplary MV amplification such small GH shifts can be detected and measured i.e. very small concentrations that produce otherwise undetectable GH shifts in the range 0.0104 m to 0.104 m. Because of this precision the exemplary hybrid sensor can not only detect the presence of bio molecules but can also when calibrated measure the concentration. This aspect enables the exemplary apparatus to be useful for pharmaceutical applications and medical diagnostics.

An additional feature is that the hybrid sensor is easily modified to perform SPR enhanced GH shifts only i.e. without AAV amplification. This is accomplished by simply removing the post selection polarizer . This configuration can be useful when the concentration of bio molecules adhering to the film are sufficiently large such that the GH shift is large and does not need AAV amplification for detection i.e. the GH shift no longer satisfies the 

Another feature is the option to scan the length of the entire reflecting side of the prism by translating that surface as per direction diagonal to the x and z directions. In this case the pointer estimator would optionally produce a profile of the concentration distribution on the surface of the film . The gold film and LMC constitute necessary components of the detection process. Not only is the film required for SPR but it is effectively the part of the apparatus that tranduces the presence of bio molecules adhering to its surface into an optical signal i.e. a GH shift. The pointer of the apparatus is the position of the mean intensity of the reflected laser beam upon the face of the detector . The measured GH shift is the distance the mean intensity is translated from a zero position corresponding to the position of the mean intensity with absence of bio molecules adhering to the gold film .

Equivalently the GH shift effectively denotes the distance between the mean intensities of the p and s polarized parts of the beam . One may recall that D

Subsequent inventions with different film structures and LMC devices expected to detect specific kinds of organic inorganic and elemental substances are expected to follow in coming years to serve as transducers for the hybrid sensor described by this disclosure. These may include using this hybrid sensor architecture in chemical warfare pharmaceutical and medical diagnostics applications. To detect specific bio molecules inorganic molecules and atoms adhering to an adherent specific film the laser wavelength angle difference and beam waist x may be tuned to optimize the sensor performance for various applications.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

