---

title: Field-deployable hydrolysis system
abstract: A transportable and modular field-deployable hydrolysis system for neutralizing toxic chemical agents is described. The system comprises a transportable chemical process plant that is capable of operating in a remote location without significant site infrastructure. The system is also capable of operating in a maritime, shipboard environment. A flexible design allows processing of chemical agents in both batch and continuous flow modes, as well as collection and accumulation of agents from a variety of containers whose form and size may not be known until the system is on-site.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09592414&OS=09592414&RS=09592414
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09592414
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140821
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 889 835 filed on Oct. 11 2013 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the U.S. Government.

The invention relates to a method and apparatus for hydrolysis treatment of toxic liquid chemical agents and more particularly to a field deployable hydrolysis system.

The safe destruction of chemical weapons has been an ongoing effort for many years. In the United States permanent facilities have been built in several locations to dispose of stockpiles. However chemical weapons are located in many countries around the world and permanent facilities are often impractical if not impossible to build in these locations.

Thus a need exists for a chemical weapon disposal system and process that is portable and capable of being deployed and set up in temporary locations to demilitarize a range of bulk liquid chemical agents.

The invention in one embodiment encompasses a field deployable hydrolysis system that is a transportable modular chemical agent neutralization system. The system is a transportable chemical process plant that is capable of operating in a remote location without significant site infrastructure. The system is also capable of operating in a maritime environment such as on board ship.

A portable field deployable hydrolysis system for neutralizing toxic chemical agents according to the present invention includes a process component and a reactor component flexibly coupled to a water source and one or more reagent sources. The process component includes a toxic chemical agent storage container one or more static mixers coupled to the toxic chemical agent storage container the water source and the one or more reagent sources and one or more pumps coupled to the toxic chemical agent storage container the water source the one or more reagent sources and the one or more static mixers. The reactor component includes a reactor for neutralizing toxic chemical agents and one or more pumps wherein the toxic chemical agents are combined with water and one or more reagents thereby using hydrolysis to neutralize the toxic chemical agents.

In another embodiment the invention encompasses a portable field deployable hydrolysis system facility for neutralizing toxic chemical agents said facility having a water tank one or more reagent tanks a process component contained within a first transportation structure a reactor component contained within a second transportation structure a process enclosure surrounding the first and second transportation structures a carbon filtration system flexibly coupled to the process enclosure to draw air from inside the enclosure to provide filtration and negative air pressure within the enclosure and one or more neutralent waste tanks flexibly coupled to the process component for storing neutralized toxic chemical agents after processing by the process component or the reactor component wherein the toxic chemical agents are combined with water and one or more reagents using hydrolysis to neutralize the toxic chemical agents.

Another embodiment of the invention encompasses a method of neutralizing toxic chemical agents comprising the steps of installing a portable field deployable hydrolysis system to neutralize toxic chemical agents including the steps of transporting a process component to a location said process component housed on a transportation skid and comprising at least a toxic chemical agent storage container one or more static mixers one or more pumps and interconnecting piping and valves transporting a reactor component to the location said reactor component housed on a transportation skid and further comprising at least a reactor for neutralizing toxic chemical agents one or more pumps and interconnecting piping and valves securing the process component and the reactor component adjacent to each other at the location connecting piping in the process component to piping in the reactor component using flexible hoses installing a process enclosure around the process component and reactor component connecting a carbon filtration system to the process enclosure to draw air from inside the enclosure to provide filtration and negative air pressure within the enclosure and connecting piping in the process and reactor components to a water tank one or more reagent tanks and one or more neutralent waste tanks using flexible hoses.

The field deployable hydrolysis system FDHS is a transportable modular chemical agent neutralization system and process capable of being deployed and set up in temporary and remote locations to demilitarize a wide range of bulk liquid chemical agents. The system uses water and reagents to chemically neutralize highly toxic and or lethal chemical agents producing waste liquid effluent which is much safer than the original chemical agent. The system includes the equipment and instrumentation required to operate and monitor the process including a mobile laboratory facility but requires continuous operational support from the area supply authority for water NaOCl NaOH and other consumables to support process operations. While the invention is described in the context of neutralizing chemical agents using specific reagents it can also be used to neutralize biological agents with the appropriate reagents as well.

The FDHS is a transportable chemical process plant capable of operating in remote locations without significant site infrastructure. The system provides its own generated power air processing equipment and lab facility to enable complete site operations. Consumables that are required to support operations include water sodium hypochlorite NaOCl and sodium hydroxide NaOH . Some minor site preparations may be required as the platform requires a level debris free space. To support all required elements of FDHS operations a footprint of approximately 300 300 is required. The FDHS system is also capable of being set up in a maritime environment and is currently being used aboard ship to neutralize the Syrian chemical weapons stockpile.

The FDHS includes several interconnected systems each of which will be discussed in turn. These systems include a water reagent supply b agent access and accumulation c neutralization reaction process d neutralent waste accumulation e utilities support equipment and f laboratory facilities.

The general FDHS process flow involves the basic steps of combining water and reagent with a chemical agent facilitating a neutralization reaction and disposing of neutralent waste.

The FDHS requires inputs of large volumes of water for example up to 1800 gallons per batch and or reagent depending on the chemical being processed. Additionally for the HD mustard chemical agent hydrolysis reaction the water requires pre heating to a temperature of approximately 190 F. in a preferred embodiment to maintain the required water temperature before introduction of an agent to the process. In an embodiment reagent supply includes 12 NaOCl and 20 NaOH but any reagents could be used depending on the agent to be processed. For example neutralization of biological material could require hydrogen peroxide or formaldehyde agents.

Because the form of the containers housing chemical agents is not pre defined and will likely be unknown until the FDHS system is on site the system is capable of accumulating agent accessed by various means from bulk and or multiple smaller containers. In this way agent may be fed to the neutralization process at a consistent rate.

There are many different types of chemical agents which require neutralization. For this reason the system is designed to be operated in several prescribed modes for example batch or continuous flow configurations processing with or without static mixers or reactor agitation and using multiple approved feed rates and agent reagent ratios. This flexibility is required because certain reactions require significant agitation to ensure effective agent destruction. Other reactions occur instantaneously and do not require rigorous mixing. In addition the exothermic nature of the process requires metered addition of agent to prevent boiling and steam generation. In order to manage the neutralization process appropriate instrumentation is provided to monitor temperature pressure pH fluid flow and quantity of material processed. Instrumentation includes at least local and one remote read out for process monitoring. All valves pumps generators and compressors are operated manually during the FDHS process.

Significant volumes of neutralent must be collected at the end of the process. Neutralent from most reactions will be above ambient temperature. Additionally neutralent waste will have low pH and may contain HCl or HF acids and therefore requires containers that will adequately house these materials. In a preferred embodiment neutralent is cooled before ultimate storage in non metallic containers because they are typically not suitable for storing fluids at higher than 150 F. However any appropriate container may be used to store neutralent.

The FDHS provides much of the utilities and support equipment required to operate internally without requiring site support. These include power compressed air for equipment and personnel support lighting and facilities for operations personnel to don doff personal protective equipment PPE and to store tools and component spares. Power capacity is sized to operate pumps agitators instrumentation environmental control units air supply and other system equipment. Capability for decontamination of the system is integral to enable flushing and changeover.

The FDHS may also include a self contained onsite laboratory to enable analysis of process samples. In a preferred embodiment the lab is equipped to at least analyze samples to verify which chemical agents will be inputs to the process as well as waste neutralent samples to verify destruction.

A preferred embodiment of a land based site layout for the FDHS is shown in . A more detailed depiction of FDHS including a primary process skid and a reactor skid is shown in .

Equipment to accomplish the neutralization reaction process is distributed over two skids both approximately 8 20 8.5 feet. These dimensions are an industry standard for inter model transportation but any appropriate dimension of skid could be used. The first skid a primary process skid houses a tank for bulk agent storage having an approximately 300 gallon capacity and static mixers used for both continuous flow and batch processing. This skid also houses process piping pumps and valves. Flexible hose connections are available to connect this skid to an adjacent reactor skid . Primary process skid will be described in more detail in connection with .

The second skid is a reactor skid that houses a 2 200 gallon titanium reactor. Additional high flow reagent and water pumps with associated piping and valves are also housed on this skid. Reactor skid will be described in more detail in connection with .

In order to safely operate the FDHS both the primary process and reactor skids are located in environmental enclosure with carbon based air filtration. In an embodiment the enclosure is a General Purpose Outdoor Shelter GPOS with dimensions of 40 58 25 erected on site on a compacted zero grade area although any GPOS capable of accommodating reactor skid which will be 20 tall when placed in operational configuration may be used. The GPOS will be erected after reactor skid and primary process skid are in place so that it does not interfere with the use of material handling equipment required for setup of these skids. To the greatest extent possible accessing operations to transfer the contents of the original chemical agent storage containers to the bulk agent storage tank on primary process skid will be performed inside the GPOS.

A 5 600 cfm carbon filtration system is connected to environmental enclosure to filter and remove agent vapors or VOCs volatile organic compounds within the enclosure. Filtration system is not intended to provide a target rate of volumetric air changes within the enclosure or any minimum pressure differential but it will create a negative pressure within the enclosure with respect to ambient atmospheric pressure. This pressure differential ensures that air within the enclosure will not leak to the outside environment. For additional safety operators will wear OSHA Level B and C personal protective equipment PPE during operations.

As an additional safety measure vapors from the agent bulk storage tank and the reactor are captured from the top of these vessels and passed through caustic vent drum scrubbers shown in to capture and neutralize agent and acid gases. Vent drum scrubbers pass vapors through two wet chambers and a third knock out chamber before air is pushed to the carbon filtration system.

A 4000 gallon tank is part of the shipped FDHS system. Tank will be supplied via flexible hose connections to a water source at the site. This tank is also supplied with a recirculation heating system that is designed to keep water in primary water tank at a temperature set point when heating is required for a certain process. The use of primary water tank and the maintenance of a fill level of greater than 50 will allow operators to avoid the extended heating times that would be required to heat an entire container from ambient temperatures to the desired process feed temperature. Heating system also connects to the reactor jacket allowing hot water to flow into the reactor jacket to enable pre heating of the reactor in cold environments upon start up of reactor processes that require heating.

Three diesel powered generators are located outside environmental enclosure and power all process equipment and ancillary equipment. In an embodiment generators are sized so that two generators are capable of powering all equipment on site including when water heating is required with the third acting as a backup. Only one generator is sufficient to power all equipment when water heating is not required. Transfer switch facilitates switching between generators . Fuel for the generators is provided by fuel tank . The FDHS also includes two air compressors which provide compressed air to the air driven pumps instrumentation cooling and air supply to the bulk agent tank and reactor head space on the primary process skid. One compressor is used at a time with the other acting as a spare unit.

An electrical distribution panel directs power to all powered equipment on site. As described above one generator is dedicated to powering the water tank heaters . The other two generators are set up to power the rest of the site equipment with one of the two acting as a backup configured with an automatic transfer switch. The backup generator also has the capability of being quickly rewired to power water tank heaters in the event that the generator dedicated for that purpose fails.

Reagent tanks are located outside environmental enclosure and supply NaOH or NaOCl to the FDHS. As explained above other reagents could be used depending on the agent to be neutralized. The NaOCl supply must be greater than 1 800 gallons so that enough reagent can be supplied to fill the reactor for batch reactions. A continuous supply of additional NaOCl may be required depending on agent inventory at the site. NaOH can be provided in smaller quantities with a minimum amount of 300 gallons to be maintained at the site.

In addition to reagent tanks a number of neutralent waste tanks are also located outside environmental enclosure . In an embodiment three tanks with a capacity of greater than 4 000 gallons are available but any number and capacity could be used. The effluent lines from the process equipment run to common manifolds shown in used to connect to and deliver waste into the tanks. The tanks are connected to the manifolds using flexible hoses and filled manually. The tanks are designed to accommodate extreme pH hydrofluoric and hydrochloric acids and temperatures up to 200 F. A second vent drum scrubber unit identical to the one connected to the Reactor and Agent Bulk Storage tanks is connected to vent lines capturing waste tank vapors and the carbon filtration system is used to ensure capture of agent and other harmful vapors coming from the neutralent in waste tanks while it cools.

Optionally neutralent bladders having a capacity of approximately 20 000 gallons can also be used for final storage of neutralent solutions after it cools in the waste tanks. The bladders are capable of being filled from waste tanks using flexible hose connections and a neutralent pump placed between an initial hose connection and a bladder hose connection. Once filled neutralent can be transferred from the bladders for transport or fixed on site for indefinite storage.

An expandable shelter is provided on site away from the primary processing environmental enclosure and houses all laboratory equipment. In a preferred embodiment shelter is shipped in an 8 20 8 configuration which has dimensions of 24 when expanded and set up on site. Generators described above will provide power to the laboratory equipment. A personnel decontamination station PDS enclosure is also provided at the entrance of environmental enclosure to provide an area for decontamination of personnel leaving the operational area. In a preferred embodiment enclosure will be approximately 15 20 .

Finally a combined breathing air compressor and cascade system is located outside the Environmental enclosure to supply air to personnel in the operational area. Approximately six supplied air lines will be provided in environmental enclosure or PDS enclosure .

The elements of an FDHS environment as described above may be used as a single process environment or can be doubled as shown in where two systems are positioned adjacent one another aboard ship.

An alternative site layout for use with FDHS in a maritime environment is shown in . Similar elements are marked with similar reference numerals. also shows additional pumps and which are used to move fluids between various processing components and tanks as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

Further details of primary process skid and reactor skid are shown in . Reactor skid houses reactor which in a preferred embodiment is a 2 200 gallon titanium reactor equipped with an agitator . FDHS is capable of incorporating reactor into several different batch processing methods. For example agent water and reagent can all be pumped directly to reactor . A set of high flow pumps described below allows operators to set valve configurations to draw material from reactor to either recirculate through the static mixers or directly back to reactor for extended mixing and reaction times or drain directly to neutralent waste tanks of .

Primary process skid includes tank having a capacity of at least 300 gallons for holding bulk chemical agent. In a preferred embodiment tank is constructed of HDPE and has connection points for lines to receive chemical agent pumped in from field containers. Tank also includes a top vent connected to a caustic vent drum scrubber a bottom drain into process agent lines and top mounted inlets to allow for tank wash down between hydrolysis processes.

Static Mixers includes two pairs of redundant static mixers although only one mixer is normally used. With redundant mixers one can be isolated removed and replaced when required since only one static mixer will be used at a time. In a preferred embodiment static mixers are 30 long and contain six mixing elements targeting particle sizes of less than 100 microns during operation. One pair of static mixers is made from titanium with a super alloy for example Hastelloy injection quill to process HD distilled mustard chemical agent material while the other pair is constructed entirely of a super alloy to accommodate neutralents that produce HF which is incompatible with titanium. Other construction materials could be used depending on the chemical agents to be neutralized.

A number of pumps are provided to move chemical agents reagents water and neutralent through the apparatus. In a preferred embodiment FDHS incorporates in line spares to facilitate efficient operations in the event of pump failure. Flange fittings and valve configurations enable isolation of failed equipment allowing for field replacement when the operation is paused. For safety considerations pumps are not intended to be removed while agent precursor is being processed through the other pump.

Agent injection pumps provide agent from bulk agent tank to injection ports of static mixers at low flows approximately 1 5 gpm and high pressures of up to 125 psi in a preferred embodiment. These high pressures overcome the flow and pressure of the reagent or recirculating neutralent passing through the static mixers.

Agent transfer pumps transfer agent from original storage containers into tank or into reactor from either the original containers or tank . In a preferred embodiment these pumps operate at flow rates of approximately 5 to 25 gpm at low pressures higher flows but lower pressure than the agent injection pumps and are made of a super alloy or other material according to the requirements of the chemical agents and reagents that will be processed.

Reagent and water pumps are a set of redundant pumps with adjustable flows from approximately 25 to 100 gpm. These pumps transfer water or reagent into the system directing it into static mixers or reactor or out to the neutralent tanks following agent injection at the static mixers. These pumps are also used during continuous operation mode as described below. Another set of similar pumps are located on skid for recirculation processes and draining of tank . These pumps transfer neutralent from reactor recirculating back to reactor through static mixers or to neutralent waste tanks . In an embodiment pumps and are polypropylene lined.

Wash down pumps include two pumps similar to agent transfer pumps . These pumps are used to transfer water to primary water tank water from primary water tank through a hose connection and reagent from reagent tanks to a hose connection. This set of pumps one is redundant use hose connections to flush out various parts of FDHS or to decontaminate original agent storage containers.

Piping flanges and valves to interconnect the above apparatus is also shown in . To accommodate the materials compatibility of multiple chemistries processed in FDHS all piping is specified to be polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE lined ductile iron. All valves are perfluoroalkoxy alkane PFA lined ductile iron. These materials meet chemical and temperature compatibility requirements in a preferred embodiment but any suitable material could be used. Piping diameters are sized to accommodate the flow required for various operations of FDHS . For example water and reagent lines are approximately 3 to match the inputs of pumps and and to accommodate using water reagent for a process and rinsing or decontaminating simultaneously. Recirculation lines are approximately 1.5 to accommodate up to 70 gpm flow at a reasonable pressure. Agent lines are approximately 1 to be distinctive from the recirculation lines and also to accommodate lower flow rates.

Piping and system components are preferably connected with flanges for interconnectivity of components to enhance ease of maintainability. Operators are able to disconnect piping at the flanges in order to remove and replace system components such as valves gauges pumps or static mixers using hand tool only without requiring welding operations. In a preferred embodiment flanges are slip style or floating 150 class and gasket material is made from PTFE where required.

Ball valves are used liberally in order to isolate system components when maintenance is required. Backflow preventers check valves are also used to prevent agent or neutralent from entering parts of FDHS that are not intended to accommodate the hazards associated with those materials.

Flexible hoses are used for any off skid connections including connections between primary process skid and reactor skid . In a preferred embodiment flexible hoses are polymer lined with super alloy or non metallic fittings where required for corrosion resistance.

FDHS also includes instrumentation shown for example at in . This instrumentation includes flowmeters temperature and pressure gauges at appropriate intervals to measure process conditions before and after chemical component mixing. This instrumentation informs operators of operating conditions to ensure parameters such as flow pressure and temperature are optimal for the process. Remote readout for instrumentation provides ready access for operators to monitor these parameters.

Flow totalizers are used to determine how much neutralent has been transferred to neutralent waste tanks . A totalizer is also located on reactor skid to measure total water or reagent added to the reactor tank for batch processing as well as at the inlet to the static mixers to measure total water added to a continuous flow processing. They are also located at the outlets of agent injection pumps to determine the amount of agent transferred to reactor or static mixers .

FDHS also includes one or more temperature gauges located in heater system of primary water tank in the recirculation loop piping prior to the static mixers and at the exit of primary processing skid . Temperature gauges are also used with neutralent waste tanks and inline for lines leading from waste tanks to storage bladders if these are used.

FDHS can be operated in both batch configuration using reactor of or continuous flow configuration using static mixers of .

Referring to during batch operations water and reagent supply and agent can be pumped directly to reactor where neutralization reactions take place resulting in neutralent waste at . The batch processing may take place entirely in reactor or may be pumped through a recirculation loop for extended mixing and reaction times. The recirculation loop may also include one or more passes through static mixers which are configured to provide in stream injection point for chemical agent. Batch processing can be operated with or without agitation recirculation or static mixers as required to neutralize any given chemical agent.

Continuous flow processing does not use reactor . This configuration supplies water and or reagent to an inlet of static mixers and supplies agent to static mixer injection ports. Upon exiting static mixers neutralent preferably flows directly to neutralent waste tanks .

Numerous alternative implementations of the present invention exist. Materials for the various components of FDHS are selected based on the agents to be neutralized. In a preferred embodiment materials are able to withstand temperatures up to at least 200 F. The materials should also be able to withstand up to 8 hydrofluoric acid HF at least 2 hydrochloric acid HCl at least 12 sodium hypochlorite NaOCl and at least 25 sodium hydroxide NaOH . Materials that meet these various requirements as explained in more detail above include Titanium Grade 2 and Grade 7 for reactors a super alloy for example Hastelloy C276 for static mixers agent transfer pumps and water reagent supply pumps PTFE lined ductile iron for piping PFA lined ductile iron for valves PTFE for gaskets epoxy lined reagent and waste tanks polypropylene lined pumps for high flow reagent and neutralent pumps. PTFE lined pumps for agent injection pumps and PTFE lined flexible hoses with super alloy or PTFE lined fittings for connections can be used based on service conditions. One of ordinary skill in the art would understand how to select various pump manifold piping and tank combinations to meet processing needs.

The steps or operations described herein are exemplary. There may be many variations to these steps or operations without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance the steps may be performed in a differing order or steps may be added deleted or modified.

Although example embodiments of the invention have been depicted and described in detail herein it will be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art that various modifications additions substitutions and the like can be made without departing from the spirit of the invention and these are therefore considered to be within the scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

