---

title: Sub-diffraction-limited patterning and imaging via multi-step photoswitching
abstract: Sub-diffraction-limited patterning using a photoswitchable recording material is disclosed. A substrate can be provided with a photoresist in a first transition state. The photoresist can be configured for spectrally selective reversible transitions between at least two transition states based on a first wavelength band of illumination and a second wavelength band of illumination. An optical device can selectively expose the photoresist to a standing wave with a second wavelength in the second wavelength band to convert a section of the photoresist into a second transition state. The optical device or a substrate carrier securing the substrate can modify the standing wave relative to the substrate to further expose additional regions of the photoresist into the second transition state in a specified pattern. The method can further convert one of the first and second transition states of the photoresist into an irreversible transition state, while the other of the first and second transition states remains in a reversible transition state. The photoresist can be developed to remove the regions of the photoresist in the irreversible transition state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09063434&OS=09063434&RS=09063434
owner: University of Utah Research Foundation
number: 09063434
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140110
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 751 599 filed Jan. 11 2013.

The present invention relates generally to creating and imaging nanoscale patterns using long wavelength photons. Accordingly the present invention involves using photoswitchable materials that can be toggled in a repeatable fashion between two distinct states by exposure to at least two distinct wavelengths of light. While stepping or scanning a sample in between exposures illumination patterns that erase previous exposures can be designed thereby creating patterns that are far smaller than that allowed by the diffraction limit.

Optical imaging and patterning can be limited by a far field diffraction limit. The far field diffraction limit can limit imaging patterns or creating patterns that are spaced by a distance closer than approximately 2 where is a wavelength of an illumination. In far field diffraction a diffraction pattern can be viewed at a long distance from the diffracting object or the diffraction pattern can be viewed at the focal plane of an imaging lens.

Technology for sub diffraction limited patterning using a photoswitchable recording material is disclosed. One method can include providing a substrate with a photoresist in a first transition state. The photoresist can be configured for spectrally selective reversible transitions between at least two transition states based on a first wavelength band of illumination and a second wavelength band of illumination. An optical device can selectively expose the photoresist to a standing wave with a second wavelength in the second wavelength band to convert a section of the photoresist into a second transition state. The optical device or a substrate carrier securing the substrate can modify the standing wave relative to the substrate to further expose additional regions of the photoresist into the second transition state in a specified pattern. The method can further convert either the first transition state or the second transition state of the photoresist into an irreversible state while one of the first transition state and the second transition state of the photoresist remains in a reversible transition state. The photoresist can be developed to remove the regions of the photoresist in the irreversible transition state.

In another example a system can be used for sub diffraction limited patterning using a photoswitchable photoresist. The system can include a substrate carrier an imaging module a locking module and a developing module. The substrate carrier can be configured to position a substrate with a photoresist at a relative position to the imaging device. The imaging module can be configured to generate photons with a first wavelength in a first wavelength band to convert a photoresist into a first transition state and generate a standing wave with a second wavelength in a second wavelength band to convert a section of the photoresist into a second transition state. The photoresist can be configured for spectrally selective reversible transitions between at least two transition states based on the first wavelength band of illumination and the second wavelength band of illumination. The locking module can be configured to convert the first transition state of the photoresist into an irreversible transition state. The second transition state of the photoresist remains in a reversible transition state. The developing module can be configured to remove the regions of the photoresist in an irreversible transition state.

In another configuration an optical imaging device can be configured for sub diffraction limited patterning. The optical imaging device can include an illumination module and a substrate carrier. The illumination module can be configured to generate photons with a first wavelength in a first wavelength band to convert a photoresist into a first transition state and generate a standing wave with a second wavelength in a second wavelength band to convert a section of the photoresist into a second transition state. The photoresist can be configured for spectrally selective reversible transitions between at least two transition states based on the first wavelength band of illumination and the second wavelength band of illumination. The substrate carrier can be configured to position a substrate with the photoresist at a fixed relative position to the illumination module.

There has thus been outlined rather broadly the more important features of the disclosure so that the detailed description that follows may be better understood and so that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. Other features of the disclosure will become clearer from the following detailed description of the disclosure taken with the accompanying drawings and claims or may be learned by the practice of the disclosure.

These drawings merely depict exemplary embodiments of the disclosure therefore the drawings are not to be considered limiting of its scope. It will be readily appreciated that the components of the disclosure as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein could be arranged sized and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Nonetheless the disclosure will be described and explained with additional specificity and detail through the use of the accompanying drawings.

It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed but is extended to equivalents as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. Alterations and further modifications of the illustrated features and additional applications of the principles of the examples which would occur to one skilled in the relevant art and having possession of this disclosure are to be considered within the scope of the disclosure. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element.

It must be noted that as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a wave includes one or more of such elements reference to rows includes reference to one or more of such features and reference to exposing includes one or more of such steps.

In describing and claiming the present disclosure the following terminology will be used in accordance with the definitions set forth below.

As used herein substantial when used in reference to a quantity or amount of a material or a specific characteristic thereof refers to an amount that is sufficient to provide an effect that the material or characteristic was intended to provide. Therefore substantially free when used in reference to a quantity or amount of a material or a specific characteristic thereof refers to the absence of the material or characteristic or to the presence of the material or characteristic in an amount that is insufficient to impart a measurable effect normally imparted by such material or characteristic.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary.

Numerical data may be expressed or presented herein in a range format. It is to be understood that such a range format is used merely for convenience and brevity and thus should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. As an illustration a numerical range of about 0.6 mm to about 0.3 mm should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited values of about 0.6 mm and about 0.3 mm but also include individual values and sub ranges within the indicated range. Thus included in this numerical range are individual values such as 0.4 mm and 0.5 and sub ranges such as from 0.5 0.4 mm from 0.4 0.35 etc. This same principle applies to ranges reciting only one numerical value. Furthermore such an interpretation should apply regardless of the breadth of the range or the characteristics being described.

As used herein the term about means that dimensions sizes formulations parameters shapes and other quantities and characteristics are not and need not be exact but may be approximated and or larger or smaller as desired reflecting tolerances conversion factors rounding off measurement error and the like and other factors known to those of skill in the art. Further unless otherwise stated the term about shall expressly include exactly consistent with the discussion above regarding ranges and numerical data.

Any steps recited in any method or process claims may be executed in any order and are not limited to the order presented in the claims. Means plus function or step plus function limitations will only be employed where for a specific claim limitation all of the following conditions are present in that limitation a means for or step for is expressly recited and b a corresponding function is expressly recited. The structure material or acts that support the means plus function are expressly recited in the description herein. Accordingly the scope of the disclosure should be determined solely by the appended claims and their legal equivalents rather than by the descriptions and examples given herein.

The technology e.g. optical imaging device methods processes computer circuitry and systems as described herein provides for creating and imaging nanoscale patterns using long wavelength photons. Such an approach can be enabled by photoswitchable materials that can be toggled in a repeatable and robust fashion between two distinct states by exposure to two distinct wavelength bands of light or other external stimuli. While stepping or scanning the sample e.g. substrate with photoswitchable materials in between exposures the technology can be used to design illumination patterns that erase previous exposures thereby creating patterns that can be far smaller than the diffraction limit. Such patterns can be fixed for patterning or imaged for microscopy as described herein.

Diffraction refers to various phenomena which occur when a wave encounters an obstacle. The diffraction phenomenon can be described as the apparent bending of waves around small obstacles and the spreading out of waves past small openings. Diffractive effects can occur when a light wave travels through a medium with a varying refractive index e.g. air or a transparent substrate . Diffraction can occur with all types of waves including sound waves and electromagnetic waves such as visible light infrared X rays and radio waves.

The resolution of an optical imaging system e.g. a microscope or optical imaging device can be limited by various factors such as imperfections in the lenses misalignment or an instrument s theoretical diffraction limit. The diffraction limit can limit the resolution of the optical system due to diffraction. The resolution of a given instrument can be proportional to the size of the instrument s objective and inversely proportional to the wavelength of the light being observed. Far field imaging can be used to create images of objects that are large compared to the illumination wavelength where the objects contain fine structure. Far field imaging can includes biological applications in which cells span multiple wavelengths but contain structures down to the molecular scales. Far field imaging can also be used in photolithography or optical lithography used to fabricate electrical or electrical mechanical structures e.g. for computer circuitry . The far field diffraction limit can be limited by the wavelength of the light or electromagnetic wave used to generate the image.

Aspects of the far field diffraction limit can be reduced by fluorescence switching for microscopy and or by photo switchable molecules for lithography. Sub diffraction limited patterning using a photoswitchable recording material can extend approaches of fluorescence switching for microscopy by photo switchable molecules for lithography with some modification. The technology described herein can simplify the entire process of sub diffraction limited patterning with photoswitchable recording materials.

When the distance between an aperture of the imaging device and a plane in which the pattern is observed is large enough e.g. the difference in phase between the light from the extremes of the aperture is much less than the wavelength of the light then individual contributions of light can be treated as though the light waves are parallel. Far field can refer to the relatively large distance between the aperture and the plane in which the pattern is observed and can be defined as being located at a distance which is significantly greater than W where is the wavelength and W is the largest dimension in the aperture.

In an example wavelength can represent a range of wavelengths in a first bandwidth and wavelength can represent a range of wavelengths in a second bandwidth where the first bandwidth does not include wavelengths in the second bandwidth and the second bandwidth does not include wavelengths in the first bandwidth.

A uniform exposure to can convert the material or substrate except those regions that are locked into C e.g. un locked material back into form B as illustrated in . The sample or substrate can be displaced relative to the illumination so as to convert regions surrounding C into A via the standing wave at as illustrated in . The sample can be displaced relative to the illumination by using a process similar to the process illustrated with and the exposure to the standing wave at can be repeated as illustrated in .

The process can result in a small region of B that is placed next to the first C region with a spacing that can be determined primarily by the difference between the displacements and . In an example mechanical displacement can be far more accurate and precise compared to the diffraction limit so sub diffraction limited patterning can be achieved. Again regions in B can be locked to C as illustrated in . The steps can be repeated until the desired pattern geometry is achieved as illustrated in . By changing the relative displacement the spacing between each C region can be changed in an arbitrary manner. Furthermore although a periodic pattern is shown in this example any pattern non periodic or periodic can be used as long as a pattern of A and B regions can be created. The regions in C can be developed or dissolved away to result in topographical patterns as illustrated in . In other example not shown regions of A or B can be dissolved away while allowing C to remain. Specific choices of which regions to remove or leave in place can depend on factors such as material properties and processing convenience.

Non limiting examples of suitable mechanical displacement devices include piezoelectric transducers stepper motor stages flexure stages and the like. Although mechanical displacement can often allow for extreme accuracy i.e. errors less than 1 nanometer nm any technique can be used for displacing or shifting the standing wave can be used. Such methods can include mechanical displacement of the substrate mechanical displacement of the wave source and or waveform manipulation. The waveform modification can often allow for faster transitions while less accuracy may occur. These methods can be optimized based on requirements and can use one or more of such wave displacement techniques. illustrates that by shifting the standing wave the size of the regions that are in B form can be reduced.

A challenge in patterning with a node e.g. small locked in feature of using the processes illustrated for 1D and 2D can be that the quality of the pattern can be intimately linked to the darkness of the node lack of exposure or absorbed energy from the other standing wave e.g. A exposure for a form B node or B exposure for a form A node . If noise occurs in the node then image contrast can suffer which effect can be illustrated in where the form B regions can be reduced with an increased exposure time of illumination. As exposure time is increased the region e.g. B region that is supposed to receive no exposure corresponding to the node of the incident standing wave can actually receive some noise photons. The noise photons can convert the material from B to A creating a low contrast image. If the exposure is performed long enough the chemical image may be completely eliminated from noise. One approach to mitigating the lack of contrast due to noise can be to place the material on the surface of a transparent substrate such as a quartz or glass slide as illustrated in . Then if the exposures are conducted through the opposite side even a low contrast image may be developed to result in narrow topography.

If the standing wave quality is poor as illustrated in image contrast may be deteriorated. The problem of poor image contrast can be solved by exposing through the back of a glass slide as illustrated in . The sample can be developed to have the narrow topography .

In another example the problem of low contrast can be solved with a combination of uniform and standing waves of and illumination. For example a low contrast image from can be taken and the sample can be exposed to a uniform beam at for a short time such that a very thin layer at the top surface is converted to B as shown in . The short exposure of the illumination can be followed with an exposure to a standing wave at to increase the contrast of the final chemical image . A similar result can also be achieved by exposing both wavelengths e.g. uniform illumination and standing wave at simultaneously to the material as shown in . In low intensity illumination Ican be exposed as a standing wave whose phase is it shifted to that of the standing wave at e.g. I .

In another configuration illustrates that by exposing the low contrast image from to a uniform illumination at for a relatively short period of time the image contrast increased. illustrates increasing the image contrast similar to by exposing both wavelengths e.g. and simultaneously. illustrates increasing the image contrast similar to where the illumination may also be a standing wave whose phase is it shifted with respect to the standing wave. In the cases illustrated in the intensities of and can be chosen based on the quantum efficiencies of the respective transformations. Specifically the rates of conversion between state A and state B can be a function of intensity such that the desired regions can be converted to each state without excess bleed over.

The principles in and A C can be applied to the various methods for generating sub diffraction limited patterns including those methods illustrated in using either a sequential exposure of followed by an exposure of or simultaneously using both wavelengths e.g. and in an exposure.

Many different optical systems may be utilized to generate sub diffraction limited patterns. In one dimension a conventional interferometer can be used. An interferometer can make use of the principle of superposition to combine waves e.g. with wavelengths and in a way that can cause the result of their combination to have some meaningful property. FIGS. A C illustrate several options for generating sub diffraction limited patterns using an interferometer. Two wavelengths or more wavelengths can be utilized either sequentially or simultaneously. illustrates a simple Mach Zehnder configuration of an interferometer with a 50 50 beamsplitter and mirrors. illustrates a Lloyds mirror interferometer and shows a same interferometer used for both beams. The sample can be mounted on a stage to generate dense and arbitrary 1D geometries. Simple 2D geometries can also be achieved by adding a rotational stage and or a 2D X Y stage where the stage can be moved in more than one dimension.

An interferometer can superimpose waves usually electromagnetic waves to extract information about the waves or expose a surface to a wave with a specified wavelength.

Interferometers can be used for the measurement of small displacements refractive index changes surface irregularities and similar measurements. Thus illustrates possible optical systems that can implement the methods described in 1D. Other optical systems may also be used.

Another example provides a method for sub diffraction limited patterning using a photoswitchable recording material as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine computer circuitry or a processor where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of providing a substrate with a photoresist in a first transition state wherein the photoresist is configured for spectrally selective reversible transitions between at least two transition states based on a first wavelength band of illumination and a second wavelength band of illumination as in block . The operation of selectively exposing the photoresist to a standing wave with a second wavelength in the second wavelength band to convert a section of the photoresist into a second transition state follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be modifying the standing wave relative to the substrate to further expose additional regions of the photoresist into the second transition state in a specified pattern as in block . The operation of converting one of the first transition state and the second transition state of the photoresist into an irreversible transition state wherein one of the first transition state or the second transition state of the photoresist remains in a reversible transition state follows as in block . The method can further include developing the photoresist to remove the regions of the photoresist in the irreversible transition state as in block .

In an example the operation of providing the substrate with the photoresist in the first transition state can further include coating a substrate with the photoresist and uniformly exposing the photoresist to photons with a first wavelength in the first wavelength band to convert the photoresist into the first transition state. In an example the first wavelength band can be in the range of 250 nanometers nm to 400 nm and the second wavelength band can be in the range of 500 nm to 700 nm. In another example the operation of modifying the standing wave relative to the substrate can further include displacing the substrate relative to an illumination source generating the standing wave. In another configuration the operation of modifying the standing wave relative to the substrate can further include phase shifting the standing wave. In another example the operation of modifying the standing wave relative to the substrate can further include modifying the period of the standing wave within the second wavelength band.

In another example prior to converting the first transition state of the photoresist into the irreversible transition state the method can further include exposing the photoresist to photons with the first wavelength for a relatively short period of time to convert a surface of the photoresist into the first transition state and exposing the photoresist to the standing wave with the second wavelength for a relatively short period of time to convert selected regions of a surface of the photoresist into the second transition state to increase image contrast. The operation of converting the first transition state of the photoresist into an irreversible transition state or developing the photoresist can use a photochemical reaction electrochemical oxidation chemical oxidation or dissolving the photoresist away. In another configuration the photoresist can include a thermally stable photochromic system containing electroactive moieties and the operation of converting the first transition state of the photoresist into an irreversible transition state can use a photoactivated reductant or oxidant that generates a redox reaction when exposed to photons with a third wavelength in the third wavelength band. The third wavelength band can differ from the first wavelength band and the second wavelength band. In another example the photoresist can include bithienylethene BTE and the operation of converting the first transition state of the photoresist into an irreversible transition state can use a photooxidant ruthenium tris bipyridine dichloride Ru bpy Cl . In another configuration the operation of selectively exposing the photoresist to the standing wave can convert the photoresist into a second transition state when the energy of the standing wave exceeds a threshold.

In an example the substrate carrier can be further enabled to move a configurable distance relative to the imaging module or the imaging module can be further enabled to move a configurable distance relative to the substrate carrier to generate a pattern on the photoresist with the standing wave. In another example the imaging device can be further configured to phase shift the standing wave to generate a pattern on the photoresist with the standing wave. In another configuration the imaging device can be further configured to modify the period of the standing wave within the second wavelength band to generate a pattern on the photoresist with the standing wave.

In another example the locking module can be further configured to generate photochemical reaction along with the imaging device electrochemical oxidation or chemical oxidation. The first wavelength band can be in the range of 250 nanometers nm to 400 nm and the second wavelength band can be in the range of 500 nm to 700 nm.

Referring back to an optical imaging device or can be configured for sub diffraction limited patterning. The optical imaging device can include an illumination module and a substrate carrier . The illumination module can be configured to generate photons with a first wavelength in a first wavelength band to convert a photoresist into a first transition state and generate a standing wave with a second wavelength in a second wavelength band to convert a section of the photoresist into a second transition state. The photoresist can be configured for spectrally selective reversible transitions between at least two transition states based on the first wavelength band of illumination and the second wavelength band of illumination. The substrate carrier can be configured to position a substrate with the photoresist at a fixed relative position to the illumination module.

In an example the illumination module can include an interferometer configured to generate photons with the first wavelength and the standing wave with the second wavelength a Mach Zehnder interferometer a Lloyds mirror interferometer an interferometer with a rotating stage for two dimensional 2D imaging or a spatial light modulator SLM .

Many different materials may be utilized for sub diffraction limited patterning. For example a two material mixture system can be used. As illustrated in the material system can include of two molecules initially in states A and C. When state A is illuminated at wavelength the material can become B also see . When state B is illuminated with the material can transform back to A also see . When the second molecule in state C is illuminated with the material can form an excited state C . Molecules in state C and those molecules in state B can react to form a product D. In an example this reaction may be photocatalyzed. The reaction of formation of D may be irreversible which can be used to lock the pattern or features as shown in H I I B or I. If no molecules in state B are present in the vicinity of C the molecules in state C can relax back to the ground state C when the illumination at is turned off Sufficient molecules of C may be needed to react with B. Otherwise species starvation may limit the patterning process. States B C C and D may have negligible absorption at states A C C and D may have negligible absorption at and states A B C and D have negligible absorption at .

Materials for single molecule resolution using a two material mixture system and three wavelengths are illustrated in . Any thermally stable photochromic system or molecules e.g. A B containing electroactive moieties can qualify for use in the technology described herein. Specifically the thermally stable photochromic system can display an increase in conjugation length upon illumination with and conversely a decrease in conjugation length upon illumination with . In the specific cases detailed in the above examples bithienylethene BTE can serves as the photochromic system. In another example 1 2 bis 5 5 dimethyl 2 2 bithiophen yl perfluorocyclopent 1 ene can serve as a photochromic molecule.

Component C can be a photoactivated reductant or oxidant so that a redox reaction does not occur between components A B and C in the absence of a specific photon input. In the case detailed above ruthenium tris bipyridine dichloride Ru bpy Cl can serve as a photooxidant. Other non limiting examples of suitable Component C can include ozone trans dioxo complexes of Ruthenium and Osmium or metal nitrido compounds. A metal to ligand charge transfer MLCT transition in Ru bpy Clcan be selectively excited at 465 nm thus creating both a ruthenium center that is a strong electron acceptor and a bipyridine radical anion that can act as an electron donor. Due to the presence of bithiophene moieties in BTE that can be easily oxidized the excited Ru bpy Clcan act as a one electron electron acceptor. However in state A or form A the oxidation potential of the bithiophene arms can be too high for electron transfer to occur. Upon transformation to state B or form B however the oxidation potential of the photochrome can be lowered by approximately 0.5 V and the electron transfer reaction from BTE B to Ru bpy Clcan be energetically favorable. The complex product D can be preferentially dissolved in methanol after the patterning is completed.

Additionally BTE B can liberate two electrons sequentially to form the stable dication. Thus the stiochiometry of the redox reaction can use two ruthenium complexes per photochrome.

In another example one material mixture system can be used where a molecule C including excited state C and ground state C is not used to catalyze or photocatalyze the state B into an irreversible state. In a one material mixture system a molecule can be converted into an irreversible state or irreversible transformation using an illumination with which differs from and . Alternatively the molecule can be converted into an irreversible state or irreversible transformation using a catalyst or other chemical reaction.

In another example alternative set of transitions is illustrated in . The system can be a mixture of two different materials. Each material can undergo reversible photo initiated transitions as described. When molecules in state A are illuminated by the molecules can be converted to state B. The molecules in state B can revert to state A upon illumination by . When molecules in state C are illuminated by the molecules can convert to state D. The molecules in state D can revert to state C upon illumination by . When molecules in states D and B are in close vicinity the molecules can undergo an irreversible reaction to form a product E. The reaction of B and D molecules may or may not be photoinitiated. States B C D and E can have negligible absorption at . States A C D and E have negligible absorption at . States A B D and E can have negligible absorption at . States A B C and E can have negligible absorption at .

The illumination may not have high intensities. Specific combinations of chemical species can enable patterning and can be extended to 3 D nanopatterning. The technology can make use of spectrally selective reversible and irreversible transitions which can be enabled by chemistry. By saturating one of the reversible transitions with an optical node a single molecule may be retained in one configuration compared to the molecule s neighbors. By using a separate irreversible transformation the saturated molecule can be fixed using Patterning via Optical Saturable Transitions POST .

In an example polymer systems with absorbance modulation layers AML and mass transfer layers MTL can be used as photochromes. To achieve nanoscale resolution at low intensities thermally stable classes of photochromes such as fulgides and diarylethenes can be used. In both of these classes of photochromes photoinduced electro cyclic rearrangements can transform a colorless ultra violet absorbing UV absorbing triene system into a highly colored cyclohexadiene photoproduct and vice versa. Because covalent bonds can either be formed or broken during the photoisomerization process conversion between the open ring and closed ring isomers can be primarily photoinitiated and the thermal contribution to this isomerization can be negligible.

Furyl fulgide as the active component in the absorbance modulation layer AML reveals a susceptibility to photodegradation that significantly reduces the concentration of this photochrome in the AML with prolonged irradiation. Some fulgides reported in the chemical literature confirms that many fulgides display a lack of fatigue resistance because of photooxidation of either their triene or hetero cyclic moieties. Therefore a comparatively photostable class of thiophene substituted fluorinated cyclopentenes may be used as potential photochromes for absorbance modulation. The perfluorinated bridge in these systems can prevent photooxidation of the active triene moiety and suppress competing nonproductive isomerization pathways. Specifically BTE can be used in the AML because BTE displays an absorption band centered at 313 nm in the open state e.g. state A and one centered at 582 nm in the closed state e.g. state B . These spectral features allow the use of the 325 nm line of the helium cadmium laser for the writing beams and the 633 nm line of the helium neon laser for the confining beams. High intensities can be applied at the nodal wavelength because 633 nm light may have no effect on most photoresists.

Some non limiting examples of classes of molecules for reversible modulation can include spiropyrans including spirothiopyrans chromenes fulgides azobenzenes diarylethene and viologens. Viologens transition via radical production which is different from isomerization processes. Spiropyrans can exhibit transitions via ring opening mechanisms. Specific example of suitable absorbance modulation materials can include polymers having azobenzene side chains furylfulgides pyrrolfulgides and similar absorbance modulation materials. Specific photochromic polymers can include but are not limited to 

nitro derivatives thereof such as poly 4 nitrophenyl 4 2 methacryloyoxy ethyl ethylamino phenyl diazene and poly 4 nitronaphthyl 4 2 methacryloyoxy ethyl ethylamino phenyl diazene 

Despite enumeration of several specific absorbance modulation materials other photochromic materials can be used which exhibit the criteria set forth herein.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes compact disc read only memory CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a random access memory RAM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The switch may also include a transceiver module i.e. transceiver a counter module i.e. counter a processing module i.e. processor and or a clock module i.e. clock or timer module i.e. timer . One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example or exemplary means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example or the word exemplary in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

