---

title: Cathepsin cysteine protease inhibitors
abstract: This invention relates to a novel class of compounds which are cysteine protease inhibitors, including but not limited to, inhibitors of cathepsins K, L, S and B. These compounds are useful for treating diseases in which inhibition of bone resorption is indicated, such as osteoporosis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09573913&OS=09573913&RS=09573913
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 09573913
owner_city: Rahways
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141003
---
This application is a U.S. National Phase application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application No. PCT US14 058934 filed Oct. 3 2014 which claims priority from PCT Application No. PCT CN13 001211 filed Oct. 8 2013.

A variety of disorders in humans and other mammals involve or are associated with abnormal bone resorption. Such disorders include but are not limited to osteoporosis glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis Paget s disease abnormally increased bone turnover periodontal disease tooth loss bone fractures rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis periprosthetic osteolysis osteogenesis imperfecta hypercalcemia of malignancy or multiple myeloma. One of the most common of these disorders is osteoporosis which in its most frequent manifestation occurs in postmenopausal women. Osteoporosis is a systemic skeletal disease characterized by a low bone mass and microarchitectural deterioration of bone tissue with a consequent increase in bone fragility and susceptibility to fracture. Osteoporotic fractures are a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the elderly population. As many as 50 of women and a third of men will experience an osteoporotic fracture. A large segment of the older population already has low bone density and a high risk of fractures. There is a significant need to both prevent and treat osteoporosis and other conditions associated with bone resorption. Because osteoporosis as well as other disorders associated with bone loss are generally chronic conditions it is believed that appropriate therapy will typically require chronic treatment.

Cathepsins belong to the papain superfamily of cysteine proteases. These proteases function in the normal physiological as well as pathological degradation of connective tissue. Cathepsins play a major role in intracellular protein degradation and turnover and remodeling. To date a number of cathepsin have been identified and sequenced from a number of sources. These cathepsins are naturally found in a wide variety of tissues. For example cathepsin B C F H L K O S V W and Z have been cloned. Cathepsin L is implicated in normal lysosomal proteolysis as well as several diseases states including but not limited to metastasis of melanomas. Cathepsin S is implicated in Alzheimer s disease atherosclerosis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and certain autoimmune disorders including but not limited to juvenile onset diabetes multiple sclerosis pemphigus vulgaris Graves disease myasthenia gravis systemic lupus erythemotasus rheumatoid arthritis and Hashimoto s thyroiditis allergic disorders including but not limited to asthma and allogenic immune responses including but not limited to rejection of organ transplants or tissue grafts. Increased Cathepsin B levels and redistribution of the enzyme are found in tumors suggesting a role in tumor invasion and metastasis. In addition aberrant Cathepsin B activity is implicated in such disease states as rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis pneumocystisis carinii acute pancreatitis inflammatory airway disease and bone and joint disorders.

Mammalian cathepsins are related to the papain like cysteine proteases expressed by disease causing parasites including those from the families protozoa platyhelminthes nematodes and arthropodes. These cysteine proteases play an essential role in the life cycle of these organisms.

Human type I collagen the major collagen in bone is a good substrate for cathepsin K. See Kafienah W. et al. 1998331 727 732 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In vitro experiments using antisense oligonucleotides to cathepsin K have shown diminished bone resorption in vitro which is probably due to a reduction in translation of cathepsin K mRNA. See Inui T. et al. 1997272 8109 8112 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The crystal structure of cathepsin K has been resolved. See McGrath M. E. et al. 19974 105 109 Zhao B. et al. 19974 109 11 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. Also selective peptide based inhibitors of cathepsin K have been developed See Bromme D. et al. 1996315 85 89 Thompson S. K. et al. 199794 14249 14254 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. Accordingly inhibitors of Cathepsin K can reduce bone resorption. Such inhibitors would be useful in treating disorders involving bone resorption such as osteoporosis.

What is needed in the art are therapeutic agents to treat diseases associated with Cathepsin K activity including osteoporosis glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis Paget s disease abnormally disease tooth loss bone fractures rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis periprosthetic osteolysis osteogenesis imperfecta atherosclerosis obesity glaucoma chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and cancer including metastatic bone disease hypercalcemia of malignancy and multiple myeloma.

The present invention relates to compounds that may be capable of treating and or preventing cathepsin dependent conditions or disease states in a mammal in need thereof. One embodiment of the present invention is illustrated by a compound of Formula I and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts stereoisomers and N oxide derivatives thereof 

The compounds of Formula I are inhibitors of Cathepsin K. As a result the compounds of Formula I could be useful for methods of treating inhibiting or amelioration of one or more disease states that could benefit from inhibition of Cathepsin K including osteoporosis. The compounds of this invention could further be used in combination with other therapeutically effective agents including but not limited to other drugs useful for the treatment of osteoporosis glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis Paget s disease abnormally increased bone turnover periodontal disease tooth loss bone fractures rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis periprosthetic osteolysis osteogenesis imperfecta atherosclerosis obesity glaucoma chronic obstructive pulmonary disease metastatic bone disease hypercalcemia of malignancy or multiple myeloma. The invention furthermore relates to processes for preparing compounds of Formula I and pharmaceutical compositions which comprise compounds of Formula I.

In an embodiment of the invention Ris hydrogen Calkyl Ccycloalkyl or heterocyclyl wherein said alkyl group is optionally substituted with hydroxy or one to six halo. In a class of the invention Ris hydrogen. In another class of the invention Ris methyl. In another class of the invention Ris isopropyl. In another class of the invention Ris heterocyclyl. In another class of the invention Ris tetrahydropyranyl.

In an embodiment of the invention Ris hydrogen or Calkyl wherein said alkyl group is optionally substituted with one to six halo. In a class of the invention Ris hydrogen. In another class of the invention Ris methyl.

In an embodiment of the invention Rand Rcan be taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached to form a Ccycloalkyl ring which is optionally substituted with R. In a class of the invention Rand Rcan be taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl ring. In another embodiment of the invention Rand Rcan be taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached to form a heterocycyl ring.

In an embodiment of the invention each Ris independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen or halo or two Rgroups can be taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached to form a Ccycloalkyl ring wherein said ring is optionally substituted with one to three halo. In a class of the invention Ris hydrogen. In a class of the invention Ris halo. In a subclass of the invention Ris fluoro. In a class of the invention two Rgroups can be taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl ring.

In an embodiment of the invention Ris hydrogen Calkyl ORor R wherein said alkyl groups are optionally substituted with one to six substituents independently selected from the group consisting of OR halo hydroxy cyano and R. In a class of the invention Ris hydrogen. In a class of the invention Ris Calkyl. In a class of the invention Ris OR. In a class of the invention Ris R. In a subclass of the invention Ris aryl which is optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halo methyl ethyl cyano or SOCH. In a further subclass of the invention Ris phenyl which is optionally substituted with halo.

In an embodiment of the invention Ris heteroaryl heterocyclyl C O NRR C O Ror NRC O OR wherein said heteroaryl and heterocyclyl groups are optionally substituted with one to five substituents independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl halo oxo cyano Chaloalkyl and SOR. In another embodiment of the invention Ris heterocyclyl or C O R wherein said heterocyclyl group is optionally substituted with one to five substituents independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl halo oxo cyano OR C O NRR C O OR C O Rand NR. In a class of the invention Ris heterocyclyl In a subclass of the invention Ris 1 1 dioxidothiomorphonlinyl.

In an embodiment of the invention Ris hydrogen. In another embodiment of the invention Ris Calkyl which is optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halo hydroxy cyano and O Calkyl . In a class of the invention Ris methyl. In another class of the invention Ris trifluoromethyl.

In an embodiment of the invention p is zero. In another embodiment of the invention p is one. In another embodiment of the invention p is two.

Reference to the preferred classes and subclasses set forth above is meant to include all combinations of particular and preferred groups unless stated otherwise.

Specific embodiments of the present invention include but are not limited to the compounds identified herein as Examples 1 to 248 or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

Also included within the scope of the present invention is a pharmaceutical composition which is comprised of a compound of Formula I as described above and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The invention is also contemplated to encompass a pharmaceutical composition which is comprised of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and any of the compounds specifically disclosed in the present application. These and other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the teachings contained herein.

The compounds of the present invention are inhibitors of cathepsins and are may be useful to treat or prevent cathepsin dependent diseases or conditions in mammals preferably humans. Specifically the compounds of the present invention are inhibitors of Cathepsin K and may be useful to treat or prevent Cathepsin K dependent diseases or conditions in mammals preferably humans.

The compounds of the present invention have advantages over structurally similar compounds known in the art in that they have a marked improved selectivity profiles toward related cathepsins especially cathepsin F.

 Cathepsin dependent diseases or conditions refers to pathologic conditions that depend on the activity of one or more cathepsins. Cathepsin K dependent diseases or conditions refers to pathologic conditions that depend on the activity of Cathepsin K. Diseases associated with Cathepsin K activities include osteoporosis glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis Paget s disease abnormally increased bone turnover tooth loss bone fractures rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis periprosthetic osteolysis osteogenesis imperfecta atherosclerosis obesity glaucoma chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and cancer including metastatic bone disease hypercalcemia of malignancy and multiple myeloma. In treating such conditions with the instantly claimed compounds the required therapeutic amount will vary according to the specific disease and is readily ascertainable by those skilled in the art. Although both treatment and prevention are contemplated by the scope of the invention the treatment of these conditions is the preferred use.

An embodiment of the invention is a method of inhibiting cathepsin activity in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating or preventing cathepsin dependent conditions in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of inhibiting bone loss in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. Another embodiment of the invention is a method of reducing bone loss in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. The utility of cathepsin K inhibitors in the inhibition of bone resorption which includes abnormally increased bone turnover bone fractures Paget s disease osteogenesis imperfecta and periprosthetic osteolysis is known in the literature see Stroup G. B. Lark M. W. Veber D F. Bhattacharrya A. Blake S. Dare L. C. Erhard K. F. Hoffman S. J. James I. E. Marquis R. w. Ru Y. Vasko Moser J. A. Smith B. R. Tomaszek T. and Gowen M. Potent and selective inhibition of human cathepsin K leads to inhibition of bone resorption in vivo in a nonhuman primate. J. Bone Miner. Res. 16 1739 1746 2001 and Votta B. J. Levy M. A. Badger A. Dodds R. A. James I. E. Thompson S. Bossard M. J. Carr T. Connor J. R. Tomaszek T. A. Szewczuk L. Drake F. H. Veber D. and Gowen M. Peptide aldehyde inhibitors of cathepsin K inhibit bone resorption both in vivo and in vitro. J. Bone Miner. Res. 12 1396 1406 1997.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating or preventing osteoporosis including glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the above pharmaceutical compositions described above. The utility of cathepsin K inhibitors in the treatment or prevention of osteoporosis is known in the literature see Saftig P. Hunziker E. Wehmeyer O. Jones S. Boyde A. Rommerskirch W. Moritz J. D. Schu P. and Vonfigura K. Impaired osteoclast bone resorption leads to osteopetrosis in cathepsin K deficient mice. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95 13453 13458 1998.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating or preventing periodontal disease including tooth loss in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the above pharmaceutical compositions described above. The utility of cathepsin K inhibitors in the treatment or prevention of periodontal disease and tooth loss is known in the literature see Tsuji Y et al. Expression of cathepsin K mRNA and protein in odontoclasts after experimental tooth movement in the mouse maxilla by in situ hybridization and immunoelectron microscopy. Cell Tissue Res. 2001 March 303 3 359 69.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating or preventing rheumatoid arthritic condition in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that progressive destruction of the periarticular bone is a major cause of joint dysfunction and disability in patients with rheumatoid arthritis RA see Goldring S R Pathogenesis of bone erosions in rheumatoid arthritis . Curr. Opin. Rheumatol. 2002 14 406 10. Analysis of joint tissues from patients with RA have provided evidence that cathepsin K positive osteoclasts are the cell types that mediate the focal bone resorption associated with rheumatoid synovial lesion see Hou W S Li W Keyszer G Weber E Levy R Klein M J Gravallese E M Goldring S R Bromme D Comparison of Cathepsin K and S expression within the Rheumatoid and Osteoarthritic Synovium Arthritis Rheumatism 2002 46 663 74. In addition generalized bone loss is a major cause of morbidity associated with severe RA. The frequency of hip and spinal fractures is substantially increased in patients with chronic RA see Gould A Sambrook P Devlin J et al Osteoclastic activation is the principal mechanism leading to secondary osteoporosis in rheumatoid arthritis . J. Rheumatol. 1998 25 1282 9. The utility of cathepsin K inhibitors in the treatment or prevention of resorption in subarticular bone and of generalized bone loss represent a rational approach for pharmacological intervention on the progression of rheumatoid arthritis.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating or preventing the progression of osteoarthritis in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that osteoarthritis OA is accompanied with well defined changes in the joints including erosion of the articular cartilage surface peri articular endochondral ossification osteophytosis and subchondral bony sclerosis and cyst formation see Oettmeier R Abendroth K Osteoarthritis and bone osteologic types of osteoarthritis of the hip Skeletal Radiol. 1989 18 165 74. Recently the potential contribution of subchondral bone sclerosis to the initiation and progression of OA have been suggested. Stiffened subchondral bone as the joint responding to repetitive impulsive loading is less able to attenuate and distribute forces through the joint subjecting it to greater mechanical stress across the articular cartilage surface. This in turn accelerates cartilage wear and fibrillate see Radin E L and Rose R M Role of subchondral bone in the initiation and progression of cartilage damage Clin. Orthop. 1986 213 34 40. Inhibition of excessive subarticular bone resorption by an anti resorptive agent such as a cathepsin K inhibitor will lead to inhibition of subchondral bone turnover thus may have a favorable impact on OA progression.

In addition to the above hypothesis cathepsin K protein expression was recently identified in synovial fibroblasts macrophage like cells and chondrocytes from synovium and articular cartilage specimens derived from OA patients see Hou W S Li W Keyszer G Weber E Levy R Klein M J Gravallese E M Goldring S R Bromme D Comparison of Cathepsin K and S expression within the Rheumatoid and Osteoarthritic Synovium Arthritis Rheumatism 2002 46 663 74 and Dodd R A Connor J R Drake F H Gowen M Expression of Cathepsin K messenger RNA in giant cells and their precursors in human osteoarthritic synovial tissues . Arthritis Rheumatism 1999 42 1588 93 and Konttinen Y T Mandelin J Li T F Salo J Lassus J et al. Acidic cysteine endoproteinase cathepsin K in the degeneration of the superficial articular hyaline cartilage in osteoarthritis Arthritis Rheumatism 2002 46 953 60. These recent studies thus implicated the role of cathepsin K in the destruction of collagen type II in the articular cartilage associated with the progression of osteoarthritis. The utility of cathepsin K inhibitors in the treatment or prevention of osteoarthritis as described in this invention thus comprise of two different mechanisms one is on the inhibition of osteoclast driven subchondral bone turnover and two is on the direct inhibition of collagen type II degeneration in the synovium and cartilage of patients with OA.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating cancer in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that cathepsin K is expressed in human breast carcinoma prostate cancer and chordoma and has matrix degrading capabilities see Littlewood Evans A J Bilbe G Bowler W B Farley D Wlodarski B Kokubo T Inaoka T Sloane J Evans D B Gallagher J A The osteoclast associated protease cathepsin K is expressed in human breast carcinoma. Cancer Res 1997 Dec. 1 57 23 5386 90 Brubaker K D Vessella R L True L D Thomas R Corey E Cathepsin K mRNA and protein expression in prostate cancer progression. J Bone Miner Res 2003 18 222 30 Haeckel C Krueger S Kuester D Ostertag H Samii M Buehling F Broemme D Czerniak B Roessner A. Expression of cathepsin K in chordoma. Hum Pathol 2000 July 31 7 834 40.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating atherosclerosis in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that cathepsin K is expressed in human atheroma and has significant elastase activity see Sukhova G K Shi G P Simon D I Chapman H A Libby P. Expression of the elastolytic cathepsins S and K in human atheroma and regulation of their production in smooth muscle cells. J Clin Invest 1998 August 102 576 83. It is also known that the Cat K null mouse when crossed with an ApoE null mouse shows reduced atherosclerotic plaque area and increased resistance to plaque rupture see E. Lutgens S. P. M. Lutgens B. C. G. Faber S. Heeneman M. M. J. Gijbels M. P. J. de Winther P. Frederik I. van der Made D. Black M. J. A. P. Daemen K. B. J. M. Cleutjens Disruption of the Cathepsin K Gene Reduces Atherosclerosis Progression and Induces Plaque Fibrosis but Accelerates Macrophage Foam Cell Formation. Circulation 2006 113 98 107. Increased plaque stability would lead to a decrease in heart attack and stroke in a patient administered a therapeutically effective amound of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating obesity in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that cathepsin K mRNA is increased in adipose tissue in several mouse models of obesity and also in adipose tissue of obese human males see Chiellini C Costa M Novelli S E Amri E Z Benzi L Bertacca A Cohen P Del Prato S Friedman J M Maffei M. Identification of cathepsin K as a novel marker of adiposity in white adipose tissue J Cell Physiol 2003 195 309 21.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating glaucoma in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amound of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. Cathepsin K is highly expressed in the iris ciliary body and retinal pigment epithelium and as such can be useful in the treatment of glaucoma see Ortega J. et al. Gene Expression of Proteases and Protease Inhibitors in the Human Ciliary Epithelium and ODM 2 cells Exp. Eye Res 1997 65 289 299 International Publication WO 2004 058238 Alcon Inc. .

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that cathepsin K plays a role in lung fibrosis see Buhling F. et al. Pivotal role of cathepsin K in lung fibrosis Am J Pathol. 2004 June 164 6 2203 16.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating parasitic infections in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that mammalian cathepsins are related to the papain like cysteine proteases which play an important role in the life cycle of these parasites. Such parasites are involved in the diseases of malaria American trypanosomiasis African trypanosomiasis leishmaniasis giardiasis trichomoniasis amoebiasis schistosomiasis fascioliasis paragonimiasis and intestinal roundworms see Lecaille F Kaleta J Bromme D. Human and parasitic papain like cysteine proteases their role in physiology and pathology and recent developments in inhibitor design. Chem Rev 2002 102 4459 88.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating severe acute respiratory syndrome SARS in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating metastatic bone disease in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that osteoclasts are responsible for bone resorption and that bone destruction and hypercalcemia induced by metastatic tumors are carried out by osteoclasts. Accordingly the inhibition of osteoclasts can prevent bone destruction and bone metastasis see Miyamoto T. and Suda T. Differentiation and function of osteoclasts Keio J Med 2003 March 52 1 1 7.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of preventing metastatic bone disease in a mammal with a primary tumor that carries a risk of bone metastasis comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is described in the literature that compounds that inhibit osteoclasts function can prevent tumor cell adhesion to bone see S. Boissier M. Ferreras O. Peyruchaud S. Magnetto F. H. Ebetino M. Colombel P. Delmas J. M. Delaiss and P. Cl zardin Bisphosphonates Inhibit Breast and Prostate Carcinoma Cell Invasion an Early Event in the Formation of Bone Metastases Cancer Research 60 2949 2954 2000

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating hypercalcemia of malignancy or multiple myeloma in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that cathepsin K plays a role in hypercalcemia of malignancy and multiple myeloma see Faust J. et al. Multiple myeloma cells and cells of the human osteoclast lineage share morphological and cell surface markers. J Cell Biochem. 1998 Dec. 15 71 4 559 68 A. lipton New therapeutic agents for the treatment of bone diseases. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2005 June 5 6 817 32.

Another embodiment of the invention is administering to a mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above for the treatment of mammalian diseases associated with cathepsin S including Alzheimer s disease atherosclerosis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease cancer and certain autoimmune disorders including but not limited to juvenile onset diabetes multiple sclerosis pemphigus vulgaris Graves disease myasthenia gravis systemic lupus erythemotasus rheumatoid arthritis and Hashimoto s thyroiditis allergic disorders including but not limited to asthma and allogenic immune responses including but not limited to rejection of organ transplants or tissue grafts. It is known in the literature that cathepsin S activity is associated with the above disease states see Munger J S Haass C Lemere C A Shi G P Wong W S Teplow D B Selkoe D J Chapman H A. Lysosomal processing of amyloid precursor protein to A beta peptides a distinct role for cathepsin S. Biochem J 1995 311 299 305 Sukhova G K Zhang Y Pan J H Wada Y Yamamoto T Naito M Kodama T Tsimikas S Witztum J L Lu M L Sakara Y Chin M T Libby P Shi G P. Deficiency of cathepsin S reduces atherosclerosis in LDL receptor deficient mice. J Clin Invest 2003 111 897 906 Zheng T Zhu Z Wang Z Homer R J Ma B Riese R J Jr Chapman H A Jr Shapiro S D Elias J A. Inducible targeting of IL 13 to the adult lung causes matrix metalloproteinase and cathepsin dependent emphysema. J Clin Invest 2000 106 1081 93 Shi G P Sukhova G K Kuzuya M Ye Q Du J Zhang Y Pan J H Lu M L Cheng X W Iguchi A Perrey S Lee A M Chapman H A Libby P. Deficiency of the cysteine protease cathepsin S impairs microvessel growth. Circ Res 2003 92 493 500 Nakagawa T Y Brissette W H Lira P D Griffiths R J Petrushova N Stock J McNeish J D Eastman S E Howard E D Clarke S R Rosloniec E F Elliott E A Rudensky A Y. Impaired invariant chain degradation and antigen presentation and diminished collagen induced arthritis in cathepsin S null mice. Immunity 1999 10 207 17.

Exemplifying the invention is the use of any of the compounds described above in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment and or prevention of osteoporosis in a mammal in need thereof. Still further exemplifying the invention is the use of any of the compounds described above in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment and or prevention of bone loss bone resorption bone fractures metastatic bone disease and or disorders related to cathepsin functioning.

The compounds of this invention may be administered to mammals preferably humans either alone or preferably in combination with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents optionally with known adjuvants such as alum in a pharmaceutical composition according to standard pharmaceutical practice. The compounds can be administered orally or parenterally including the intravenous intramuscular intraperitoneal subcutaneous rectal and topical routes of administration.

In the case of tablets for oral use carriers which are commonly used include lactose and corn starch and lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate are commonly added. For oral administration in capsule form useful diluents include lactose and dried corn starch. For oral use of a therapeutic compound according to this invention the selected compound may be administered for example in the form of tablets or capsules or as an aqueous solution or suspension. For oral administration in the form of a tablet or capsule the active drug component can be combined with an oral non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable inert carrier such as lactose starch sucrose glucose methyl cellulose magnesium stearate dicalcium phosphate calcium sulfate mannitol sorbitol and the like for oral administration in liquid form the oral drug components can be combined with any oral non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable inert carrier such as ethanol glycerol water and the like. Moreover when desired or necessary suitable binders lubricants disintegrating agents and coloring agents can also be incorporated into the mixture. Suitable binders include starch gelatin natural sugars such as glucose or beta lactose corn sweeteners natural and synthetic gums such as acacia tragacanth or sodium alginate carboxymethylcellulose polyethylene glycol waxes and the like. Lubricants used in these dosage forms include sodium oleate sodium stearate magnesium stearate sodium benzoate sodium acetate sodium chloride and the like. Disintegrators include without limitation starch methyl cellulose agar bentonite xanthan gum and the like. When aqueous suspensions are required for oral use the active ingredient is combined with emulsifying and suspending agents. If desired certain sweetening and or flavoring agents may be added. For intramuscular intraperitoneal subcutaneous and intravenous use sterile solutions of the active ingredient are usually prepared and the pH of the solutions should be suitably adjusted and buffered. For intravenous use the total concentration of solutes should be controlled in order to render the preparation isotonic.

The compounds of the present invention may also be administered in the form of liposome delivery systems such as small unilamellar vesicles large unilamellar vesicles and multilamellar vesicles. Liposomes can be formed from a variety of phospholipids such as cholesterol stearylamine or phosphatidylcholines.

Compounds of the present invention may also be delivered by the use of monoclonal antibodies as individual carriers to which the compound molecules are coupled. The compounds of the present invention may also be coupled with soluble polymers as targetable drug carriers. Such polymers can include polyvinylpyrrolidone pyran copolymer polyhydroxypropylmethacrylamide phenol polyhydroxy ethylaspartamide phenol or polyethyleneoxide polylysine substituted with palmitoyl residues. Furthermore the compounds of the present invention may be coupled to a class of biodegradable polymers useful in achieving controlled release of a drug for example polylactic acid polyglycolic acid copolymers of polyactic and polyglycolic acid polyepsilon caprolactone polyhydroxy butyric acid polyorthoesters polyacetals polydihydropyrans polycyanoacrylates and crosslinked or amphipathic block copolymers of hydrogels.

The instant compounds may also be useful in combination with known agents useful for treating or preventing osteoporosis glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis Paget s disease abnormally increased bone turnover periodontal disease tooth loss bone fractures rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis periprosthetic osteolysis osteogenesis imperfecta metastatic bone disease hypercalcemia of malignancy and multiple myeloma. Combinations of the presently disclosed compounds with other agents useful in treating or preventing osteoporosis or other bone disorders are within the scope of the invention. A person of ordinary skill in the art would be able to discern which combinations of agents would be useful based on the particular characteristics of the drugs and the disease involved. Such agents include the following an organic bisphosphonate a selective estrogen receptor modulator an androgen receptor modulator an inhibitor of osteoclast proton ATPase an inhibitor of HMG CoA reductase an integrin receptor antagonist an osteoblast anabolic agent such as PTH Vitamin D a synthetic Vitamin D analogue a Nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drug a selective cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitor an inhibitor of interleukin 1 beta a LOX COX inhibitor and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts and mixtures thereof. A preferred combination is a compound of the present invention and an organic bisphosphonate. Another preferred combination is a compound of the present invention and a selective estrogen receptor modulator. Another preferred combination is a compound of the present invention and an androgen receptor modulator. Another preferred combination is a compound of the present invention and an osteoblast anabolic agent. Organic bisphosphonate includes but is not limited to compounds of the chemical formula

In the foregoing chemical formula the alkyl groups can be straight branched or cyclic provided sufficient atoms are selected for the chemical formula. The C Csubstituted alkyl can include a wide variety of substituents nonlimiting examples which include those selected from the group consisting of phenyl pyridyl furanyl pyrrolidinyl imidazonyl NH C Calkyl or dialkyl substituted NH OH SH and C Calkoxy.

The foregoing chemical formula is also intended to encompass complex carbocyclic aromatic and hetero atom structures for the A and or X substituents nonlimiting examples of which include naphthyl quinolyl isoquinolyl adamantyl and chlorophenylthio.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts and derivatives of the bisphosphonates are also useful herein. Non limiting examples of salts include those selected from the group consisting alkali metal alkaline metal ammonium and mono di tri or tetra C C alkyl substituted ammonium. Preferred salts are those selected from the group consisting of sodium potassium calcium magnesium and ammonium salts. More preferred are sodium salts. Non limiting examples of derivatives include those selected from the group consisting of esters hydrates and amides.

It should be noted that the terms bisphosphonate and bisphosphonates as used herein in referring to the therapeutic agents of the present invention are meant to also encompass diphosphonates biphosphonic acids and diphosphonic acids as well as salts and derivatives of these materials. The use of a specific nomenclature in referring to the bisphosphonate or bisphosphonates is not meant to limit the scope of the present invention unless specifically indicated. Because of the mixed nomenclature currently in use by those of ordinary skill in the art reference to a specific weight or percentage of a bisphosphonate compound in the present invention is on an acid active weight basis unless indicated otherwise herein. For example the phrase about 5 mg of a bone resorption inhibiting bisphosphonate selected from the group consisting of alendronate pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof and mixtures thereof on an alendronic acid active weight basis means that the amount of the bisphosphonate compound selected is calculated based on 5 mg of alendronic acid.

Alendronate which is also known as alendronic acid 4 amino 1 hydroxybutylidene 1 1 bisphosphonic acid alendronate sodium or alendronate monosodium trihydrate 4 amino 1 hydroxybutylidene 1 1 bisphosphonic acid monosodium trihydrate.

Alendronate is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 922 007 to Kieczykowski et al. issued May 1 1990 U.S. Pat. No. 5 019 651 to Kieczykowski et al. issued May 28 1991 U.S. Pat. No. 5 510 517 to Dauer et al. issued Apr. 23 1996 U.S. Pat. No. 5 648 491 to Dauer et al. issued Jul. 15 1997 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Cycloheptylaminomethylene 1 1 bisphosphonic acid YM 175 Yamanouchi incadronate formerly known as cimadronate as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 970 335 to Isomura et al. issued Nov. 13 1990 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

1 1 dichloromethylene 1 1 diphosphonic acid clodronic acid and the disodium salt clodronate Procter and Gamble are described in Belgium Patent 672 205 1966 and 32 4111 1967 both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

1 hydroxy 3 N methyl N pentylamino propylidene 1 1 bisphosphonic acid also known as BM 210955 Boehringer Mannheim ibandronate is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 927 814 issued May 22 1990 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

 2 2 pyridinyl ethylidene 1 1 bisphosphonic acid piridronate is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 761 406 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

 4 chlorophenyl thiomethane 1 1 disphosphonic acid tiludronate as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 876 248 to Breliere et al. Oct. 24 1989 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Nonlimiting examples of bisphosphonates include alendronate cimadronate clodronate etidronate ibandronate incadronate minodronate neridronate olpadronate pamidronate piridronate risedronate tiludronate and zolendronate and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof. A particularly preferred bisphosphonate is alendronate especially a sodium potassium calcium magnesium or ammonium salt of alendronic acid. Exemplifying the preferred bisphosphonate is a sodium salt of alendronic acid especially a hydrated sodium salt of alendronic acid. The salt can be hydrated with a whole number of moles of water or non whole numbers of moles of water. Further exemplifying the preferred bisphosphonate is a hydrated sodium salt of alendronic acid especially when the hydrated salt is alendronate monosodium trihydrate.

The precise dosage of the organic bisphosphonate will vary with the dosing schedule the particular bisphosphonate chosen the age size sex and condition of the mammal or human the nature and severity of the disorder to be treated and other relevant medical and physical factors. Thus a precise pharmaceutically effective amount cannot be specified in advance and can be readily determined by the caregiver or clinician. Appropriate amounts can be determined by routine experimentation from animal models and human clinical studies. Generally an appropriate amount of bisphosphonate is chosen to obtain a bone resorption inhibiting effect i.e. a bone resorption inhibiting amount of the bisphosphonate is administered. For humans an effective oral dose of bisphosphonate is typically from about 1.5 to about 6000 g kg body weight and preferably about 10 to about 2000 g kg of body weight. For alendronate monosodium trihydrate common human doses which are administered are generally in the range of about 2 mg day to about 40 mg day preferably about 5 mg day to about 40 mg day. In the U.S. presently approved dosages for alendronate monosodium trihydrate are 5 mg day for preventing osteoporosis 10 mg day for treating osteoporosis and 40 mg day for treating Paget s disease.

In alternative dosing regimens the bisphosphonate can be administered at intervals other than daily for example once weekly dosing twice weekly dosing biweekly dosing and twice monthly dosing. In a once weekly dosing regimen alendronate monosodium trihydrate would be administered at dosages of 35 mg week or 70 mg week.

 Selective estrogen receptor modulators refers to compounds which interfere or inhibit the binding of estrogen to the receptor regardless of mechanism. Examples of estrogen receptor modulators include but are not limited to estrogen progestogen estradiol droloxifene raloxifene lasofoxifene TSE 424 tamoxifen idoxifene LY353381 LY117081 toremifene fulvestrant 4 7 2 2 dimethyl 1 oxopropoxy 4 methyl 2 4 2 1 piperidinyl ethoxy phenyl 2H 1 benzopyran 3 yl phenyl 2 2 dimethylpropanoate 4 4 dihydroxybenzophenone 2 4 dinitrophenyl hydrazone and SH646.

An estrogen receptor beta modulator is a compound that selectively agonizes or antagonizes estrogen receptor beta ER Agonizing ER increases transcription of the tryptophan hydroxylase gene TPH the key enzyme in serotonin synthesis via an ER mediated event. Examples of estrogen receptor beta agonists can be found in PCT International publication WO 01 82923 which published on Nov. 8 2001 and WO 02 41835 which published on May 20 2002 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

 Androgen receptor modulators refers to compounds which interfere or inhibit the binding of androgens to the receptor regardless of mechanism. Examples of androgen receptor modulators include finasteride and other 5 reductase inhibitors nilutamide flutamide bicalutamide liarozole and abiraterone acetate.

 An inhibitor of osteoclast proton ATPase refers to an inhibitor of the proton ATPase which is found on the apical membrane of the osteoclast and has been reported to play a significant role in the bone resorption process. This proton pump represents an attractive target for the design of inhibitors of bone resorption which are potentially useful for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis and related metabolic diseases. See C. Farina et al. Selective inhibitors of the osteoclast vacuolar proton ATPase as novel bone antiresorptive agents DDT 4 163 172 1999 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

 HMG CoA reductase inhibitors refers to inhibitors of 3 hydroxy 3 methylglutaryl CoA reductase. Compounds which have inhibitory activity for HMG CoA reductase can be readily identified by using assays well known in the art. For example see the assays described or cited in U.S. Pat. No. 4 231 938 at col. 6 and WO 84 02131 at pp. 30 33. The terms HMG CoA reductase inhibitor and inhibitor of HMG CoA reductase have the same meaning when used herein.

Examples of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors that may be used include but are not limited to lovastatin MEVACOR see U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 231 938 4 294 926 and 4 319 039 simvastatin ZOCOR see U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 444 784 4 820 850 and 4 916 239 rosuvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in CRESTOR pravastatin PRAVACHOL see U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 346 227 4 537 859 4 410 629 5 030 447 and 5 180 589 fluvastatin LESCOL see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 354 772 4 911 165 4 929 437 5 189 164 5 118 853 5 290 946 and 5 356 896 atorvastatin LIPITOR see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 273 995 4 681 893 5 489 691 and 5 342 952 and cerivastatin also known as rivastatin and BAYCHOL see U.S. Pat. No. 5 177 080 . The structural formulas of these and additional HMG CoA reductase inhibitors that may be used in the instant methods are described at page 87 of M. Yalpani Cholesterol Lowering Drugs pp. 85 89 5 Feb. 1996 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 782 084 and 4 885 314. The term HMG CoA reductase inhibitor as used herein includes all pharmaceutically acceptable lactone and open acid forms i.e. where the lactone ring is opened to form the free acid as well as salt and ester forms of compounds which have HMG CoA reductase inhibitory activity and therefor the use of such salts esters open acid and lactone forms is included within the scope of this invention. An illustration of the lactone portion and its corresponding open acid form is shown below as structures I and II.

In HMG CoA reductase inhibitors where an open acid form can exist salt and ester forms may preferably be formed from the open acid and all such forms are included within the meaning of the term HMG CoA reductase inhibitor as used herein. Preferably the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor is selected from lovastatin and simvastatin and most preferably simvastatin. Herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts with respect to the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor shall mean non toxic salts of the compounds employed in this invention which are generally prepared by reacting the free acid with a suitable organic or inorganic base particularly those formed from cations such as sodium potassium aluminum calcium lithium magnesium zinc and tetramethylammonium as well as those salts formed from amines such as ammonia ethylenediamine N methylglucamine lysine arginine ornithine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine diethanolamine procaine N benzylphenethylamine 1 p chlorobenzyl 2 pyrrolidine 1 yl methylbenz imidazole diethylamine piperazine and tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane. Further examples of salt forms of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors may include but are not limited to acetate benzenesulfonate benzoate bicarbonate bisulfate bitartrate borate bromide calcium edetate camsylate carbonate chloride clavulanate citrate dihydrochloride edetate edisylate estolate esylate fumarate gluceptate gluconate glutamate glycollylarsanilate hexylresorcinate hydrabamine hydrobromide hydrochloride hydroxynapthoate iodide isothionate lactate lactobionate laurate malate maleate mandelate mesylate methylsulfate mucate napsylate nitrate oleate oxalate pamaote palmitate panthothenate phosphate diphosphate polygalacturonate salicylate stearate subacetate succinate tannate tartrate teoclate tosylate triethiodide and valerate.

Ester derivatives of the described HMG CoA reductase inhibitor compounds may act as prodrugs which when absorbed into the bloodstream of a warm blooded animal may cleave in such a manner as to release the drug form and permit the drug to afford improved therapeutic efficacy.

As used above integrin receptor antagonists refers to compounds which selectively antagonize inhibit or counteract binding of a physiological ligand to the integrin to compounds which selectively antagonize inhibit or counteract binding of a physiological ligand to the v 5 integrin to compounds which antagonize inhibit or counteract binding of a physiological ligand to both the integrin and the integrin and to compounds which antagonize inhibit or counteract the activity of the particular integrin s expressed on capillary endothelial cells. The term also refers to antagonists of the and integrins. The term also refers to antagonists of any combination of and integrins. H. N. Lode and coworkers in PNAS USA 96 1591 1596 1999 have observed synergistic effects between an antiangiogenic v integrin antagonist and a tumor specific antibody cytokine interleukin 2 fusion protein in the eradication of spontaneous tumor metastases. Their results suggested this combination as having potential for the treatment of cancer and metastatic tumor growth. integrin receptor antagonists inhibit bone resorption through a new mechanism distinct from that of all currently available drugs. Integrins are heterodimeric transmembrane adhesion receptors that mediate cell cell and cell matrix interactions. The and integrin subunits interact non covalently and bind extracellular matrix ligands in a divalent cation dependent manner. The most abundant integrin on osteoclasts is 10 osteoclast which appears to play a rate limiting role in cytoskeletal organization important for cell migration and polarization. The antagonizing effect is selected from inhibition of bone resorption inhibition of restenosis inhibition of macular degeneration inhibition of arthritis and inhibition of cancer and metastatic growth.

 An osteoblast anabolic agent refers to agents that build bone such as PTH. The intermittent administration of parathyroid hormone PTH or its amino terminal fragments and analogues have been shown to prevent arrest partially reverse bone loss and stimulate bone formation in animals and humans. For a discussion refer to D. W. Dempster et al. Anabolic actions of parathyroid hormone on bone Endocr Rev 14 690 709 1993 . Studies have demonstrated the clinical benefits of parathyroid hormone in stimulating bone formation and thereby increasing bone mass and strength. Results were reported by R M Neer et al. in New Eng J Med 344 1434 1441 2001 .

In addition parathyroid hormone related protein fragments or analogues such as PTHrP 1 36 have demonstrated potent anticalciuric effects see M. A. Syed et al. Parathyroid hormone related protein 1 36 stimulates renal tubular calcium reabsorption in normal human volunteers implications for the pathogenesis of humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy JCEM 86 1525 1531 2001 and may also have potential as anabolic agents for treating osteoporosis.

 Vitamin D includes but is not limited to vitamin D cholecalciferol and vitamin D ergocalciferol which are naturally occurring biologically inactive precursors of the hydroxylated biologically active metabolites of vitamin D 1 hydroxy vitamin D 25 hydroxy vitamin D and 1 25 dihydroxy vitamin D. Vitamin Dand vitamin Dhave the same biological efficacy in humans. When either vitamin Dor Denters the circulation it is hydroxylated by cytochrome P vitamin D 25 hydroxylase to give 25 hydroxy vitamin D. The 25 hydroxy vitamin D metabolite is biologically inert and is further hydroxylated in the kidney by cytochrome P450 monooxygenase 25 OH D 1 hydroxylase to give 1 25 dihydroxy vitamin D. When serum calcium decreases there is an increase in the production of parathyroid hormone PTH which regulates calcium homeostasis and increases plasma calcium levels by increasing the conversion of 25 hydroxy vitamin D to 1 25 dihydroxy vitamin D.

1 25 dihydroxy vitamin D is thought to be responsible for the effects of vitamin D on calcium and bone metabolism. The 1 25 dihydroxy metabolite is the active hormone required to maintain calcium absorption and skeletal integrity. Calcium homeostasis is maintained by 1 25 dihydroxy vitamin D by inducing monocytic stem cells to differentiate into osteoclasts and by maintaining calcium in the normal range which results in bone mineralization by the deposition of calcium hydroxyapatite onto the bone surface see Holick M F Vitamin D photobiology metabolism and clinical applications In DeGroot L Besser H Burger H G et al. eds. 3ed. 990 1013 1995 . However elevated levels of 1 25 dihydroxy vitamin Dcan result in an increase of calcium concentration in the blood and in the abnormal control of calcium concentration by bone metabolism resulting in hypercalcemia. 1 25 dihydroxy vitamin Dalso indirectly regulates osteoclastic activity in bone metabolism and elevated levels may be expected to increase excessive bone resorption in osteoporosis.

 Nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs or NSAIDs inhibit the metabolism of arachidonic acid to proinflammatory prostaglandins via cyclooxygenase COX 1 and COX 2. Nonlimiting examples of NSAIDs include aspirin ibuprofen naproxen diclofenac etodolac fenoporfen flubiprofen indomethacin ketoprofen ketorolac meloxicam nabumetone oxaprozin piroxicam sulindac tolmetin diflunisal meclofenamate and phenylbutazone.

A selective cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitor or COX 2 inhibitor refers to a type of nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drug NSAID that inhibit the COX 2 coenzyme which contributes to pain and inflammation in the body. Nonlimiting examples of COX 2 inhibitos include celecoxib etoricoxib parecoxib rofecoxib valdecoxib and lumiracoxib.

An inhibitor of interleukin 1 beta or IL 1 refers to in inhibitors of IL 1 which is a soluble factor produced by monocytes macrophages and other cells which activates T lymphocytes and potentiates their response to mitogens or antigens. Nonlimiting examples of IL 1B inhibitors include diacerein and rhein.

A LOX COX inhibitor refers to an inhibitor or all three of the major enzymes involved in arachidonic acid pathway namely 5 LOX COX 1 and COX 2. A nonlimiting example of a LOX COX inhibitor is licofelone.

If formulated as a fixed dose such combination products employ the compounds of this invention within the dosage range described below and the other pharmaceutically active agent s within its approved dosage range. Compounds of the instant invention may alternatively be used sequentially with known pharmaceutically acceptable agent s when a combination formulation is inappropriate.

The term administration and variants thereof e.g. administering a compound in reference to a compound of the invention means introducing the compound or a prodrug of the compound into the system of the animal in need of treatment. When a compound of the invention or prodrug thereof is provided in combination with one or more other active agents e.g. a cytotoxic agent etc. administration and its variants are each understood to include concurrent and sequential introduction of the compound or prodrug thereof and other agents. The present invention includes within its scope prodrugs of the compounds of this invention. In general such prodrugs will be functional derivatives of the compounds of this invention which are readily convertible in vivo into the required compound. Thus in the methods of treatment of the present invention the term administering shall encompass the treatment of the various conditions described with the compound specifically disclosed or with a compound which may not be specifically disclosed but which converts to the specified compound in vivo after administration to the patient. Conventional procedures for the selection and preparation of suitable prodrug derivatives are described for example in Design of Prodrugs ed. H. Bundgaard Elsevier 1985 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Metabolites of these compounds include active species produced upon introduction of compounds of this invention into the biological milieu.

As used herein the term composition is intended to encompass a product comprising the specified ingredients in the specified amounts as well as any product which results directly or indirectly from combination of the specified ingredients in the specified amounts.

The term therapeutically effective amount as used herein means that amount of active compound or pharmaceutical agent that elicits the biological or medicinal response in a tissue system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician.

The terms treating or treatment of a disease as used herein includes inhibiting the disease i.e. arresting or reducing the development of the disease or its clinical symptoms or relieving the disease i.e. causing regression of the disease or its clinical symptoms.

The terms preventing or prevention of a disease as used herein includes causing the clinical symptoms of the disease not to develop in a mammal that may be exposed to or predisposed to the disease but does not yet experience or display symptoms of the disease.

The present invention also encompasses a pharmaceutical composition useful in the treatment of osteoporosis or other bone disorders comprising the administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I of this invention with or without pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents. Suitable compositions of this invention include aqueous solutions comprising compounds of this invention and pharmacologically acceptable carriers e.g. saline at a pH level e.g. 7.4. The solutions may be introduced into a patient s bloodstream by local bolus injection.

When a compound according to this invention is administered into a human subject the daily dosage will normally be determined by the prescribing physician with the dosage generally varying according to the age weight and response of the individual patient as well as the severity of the patient s symptoms.

In one exemplary application a suitable amount of compound is administered to a mammal undergoing treatment for a cathepsin dependent condition. Oral dosages of the present invention when used for the indicated effects will range between about 0.01 mg per kg of body weight per day mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day preferably 0.01 to 10 mg kg day and most preferably 0.1 to 5.0 mg kg day. For oral administration the compositions are preferably provided in the form of tablets containing 0.01 0.05 0.1 0.5 1.0 2.5 5.0 10.0 15.0 25.0 50.0 100 and 500 milligrams of the active ingredient for the symptomatic adjustment of the dosage to the patient to be treated. A medicament typically contains from about 0.01 mg to about 500 mg of the active ingredient preferably from about 1 mg to about 100 mg of active ingredient. Intravenously the most preferred doses will range from about 0.1 to about 10 mg kg minute during a constant rate infusion. Advantageously compounds of the present invention may be administered in a single daily dose or the total daily dosage may be administered in divided doses of two three or four times daily. Furthermore preferred compounds for the present invention may be administered in intranasal form via topical use of suitable intranasal vehicles or via transdermal routes using those forms of transdermal skin patches well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. To be administered in the form of a transdermal delivery system the dosage administration will of course be continuous rather than intermittent throughout the dosage regimen.

The compounds of the present invention can be used in combination with other agents useful for treating cathepsin mediated conditions. The individual components of such combinations can be administered separately at different times during the course of therapy or concurrently in divided or single combination forms. The instant invention is therefore to be understood as embracing all such regimes of simultaneous or alternating treatment and the term administering is to be interpreted accordingly. It will be understood that the scope of combinations of the compounds of this invention with other agents useful for treating cathepsin mediated conditions includes in principle any combination with any pharmaceutical composition useful for treating disorders related to estrogen functioning.

The scope of the invention therefore encompasses the use of a compound of Formula I in combination with a second agent selected from an organic bisphosphonate a selective estrogen receptor modulator an androgen receptor modulator an inhibitor of osteoclast proton ATPase an inhibitor of HMG CoA reductase an integrin receptor antagonist an osteoblast anabolic agent such as PTH Vitamin D a synthetic Vitamin D analogue a Nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drug a selective cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitor an inhibitor of interleukin 1 beta a LOX COX inhibitor and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts and mixtures thereof.

The compounds of the present invention may contain one or more asymmetric centers and can thus occur as racemates and racemic mixtures single enantiomers diastereomeric mixtures and individual diastereomers. Additional asymmetric centers may be present depending upon the nature of the various substituents on the molecule. Each such asymmetric center will independently produce two optical isomers and it is intended that all of the possible optical isomers and diastereomers in mixtures and as pure or partially purified compounds are included within the ambit of this invention. Unless a specific stereochemistry is indicated the present invention is meant to comprehend all such isomeric forms of these compounds.

The independent syntheses of these diastereomers or their chromatographic separations may be achieved as known in the art by appropriate modification of the methodology disclosed herein. Their absolute stereochemistry may be determined by the x ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing an asymmetric center of known absolute configuration.

If desired racemic mixtures of the compounds may be separated so that the individual enantiomers are isolated. The separation can be carried out by methods well known in the art such as the coupling of a racemic mixture of compounds to an enantiomerically pure compound to form a diastereomeric mixture followed by separation of the individual diastereomers by standard methods such as fractional crystallization or chromatography. The coupling reaction is often the formation of salts using an enantiomerically pure acid or base. The diasteromeric derivatives may then be converted to the pure enantiomers by cleavage of the added chiral residue. The racemic mixture of the compounds can also be separated directly by chromatographic methods utilizing chiral stationary phases which methods are well known in the art.

Alternatively any enantiomer of a compound may be obtained by stereoselective synthesis using optically pure starting materials or reagents of known configuration by methods well known in the art.

In the compounds of Formula I the atoms may exhibit their natural isotopic abundances or one or more of the atoms may be artificially enriched in a particular isotope having the same atomic number but an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number predominantly found in nature. The present invention is meant to include all suitable isotopic variations of the compounds of generic Formula I. For example different isotopic forms of hydrogen H include protium H and deuterium H . Protium is the predominant hydrogen isotope found in nature. Enriching for deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages such as increasing in vivo half life or reducing dosage requirements or may provide a compound useful as a standard for characterization of biological samples. Isotopically enriched compounds within generic Formula I can be prepared without undue experimentation by conventional techniques well known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the Schemes and Examples herein using appropriate isotopically enriched reagents and or intermediates.

Tautomers of compounds defined in Formula I are also included within the scope of the present invention. For example compounds including carbonyl CHC O groups keto forms may undergo tautomerism to form hydroxyl CH C OH groups enol forms . Both keto and enol forms are included within the scope of the present invention.

When any variable e.g. R etc. occurs more than one time in any constituent its definition on each occurrence is independent at every other occurrence. Also combinations of substituents and variables are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds. Lines drawn into the ring systems from substituents represent that the indicated bond may be attached to any of the substitutable ring atoms. If the ring system is bicyclic it is intended that the bond be attached to any of the suitable atoms on either ring of the bicyclic moiety.

It is understood that one or more silicon Si atoms can be incorporated into the compounds of the instant invention in place of one or more carbon atoms by one of ordinary skill in the art to provide compounds that are chemically stable and that can be readily synthesized by techniques known in the art from readily available starting materials. Carbon and silicon differ in their covalent radius leading to differences in bond distance and the steric arrangement when comparing analogous C element and Si element bonds. These differences lead to subtle changes in the size and shape of silicon containing compounds when compared to carbon. One of ordinary skill in the art would understand that size and shape differences can lead to subtle or dramatic changes in potency solubility lack of off target activity packaging properties and so on. Diass J. O. et al. Organometallics 2006 5 1188 1198 Showell G. A. et al. Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry Letters 2006 16 2555 2558 .

It is understood that substituents and substitution patterns on the compounds of the instant invention can be selected by one of ordinary skill in the art to provide compounds that are chemically stable and that can be readily synthesized by techniques known in the art as well as those methods set forth below from readily available starting materials. If a substituent is itself substituted with more than one group it is understood that these multiple groups may be on the same carbon or on different carbons so long as a stable structure results. The phrase optionally substituted with one or more substituents should be understood as meaning that the group in question is either unsubstituted or may be substituted with one or more substituents.

As used herein alkyl is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having one to ten carbon atoms unless otherwise specified. For example C C as in C Calkyl is defined to include groups having 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 carbons in a linear or branched arrangement. For example C Calkyl specifically includes methyl ethyl propyl butyl pentyl hexyl heptyl octyl nonyl decyl and so on.

The term haloalkyl means an alkyl radical as defined above unless otherwise specified that is substituted with one to five preferably one to three halogen. Representative examples include but are not limited to trifluoromethyl dichloroethyl and the like.

The term cycloalkyl means a monocyclic saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon group having the specified number of carbon atoms. For example cycloalkyl includes cyclopropyl methyl cyclopropyl 2 2 dimethyl cyclobutyl 2 ethyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and so on.

If no number of carbon atoms is specified the term alkenyl refers to a non aromatic hydrocarbon radical straight or branched containing from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and at least 1 carbon to carbon double bond. Preferably 1 carbon to carbon double bond is present and up to 4 non aromatic carbon carbon double bonds may be present. Thus C Calkenyl means an alkenyl radical having from 2 to 6 carbon atoms. Alkenyl groups include ethenyl propenyl butenyl and cyclohexenyl. As described above with respect to alkyl the straight or branched portion of the alkenyl group may contain double bonds and may be substituted if a substituted alkenyl group is indicated.

If no number of carbon atoms is specified the term alkynyl refers to a non aromatic hydrocarbon radical straight or branched containing from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and at least 1 carbon to carbon triple bond. Preferably 1 carbon to carbon triple bond is present and up to 4 non aromatic carbon carbon triple bonds may be present. Thus C Calkynyl means an alkynyl radical having from 2 to 6 carbon atoms. Alkynyl groups include ethynyl propynyl butynyl and cyclohexynyl. As described above with respect to alkyl the straight or branched portion of the alkynyl group may contain triple bonds and may be substituted if a substituted alkynyl group is indicated.

As used herein aryl is intended to mean any stable monocyclic or bicyclic carbon ring of up to 12 atoms in each ring wherein at least one ring is aromatic. Examples of such aryl elements include phenyl naphthyl tetrahydronaphthyl indanyl biphenyl phenanthryl anthryl or acenaphthyl. As used herein aryl includes ring systems wherein one ring is bicyclic and one ring is non aromatic for example dihydrobenzo b 1 4 dioxinyl.

The term heteroaryl as used herein represents a stable monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic ring of up to 10 atoms in each ring wherein at least one ring is aromatic and contains from 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The term heteroaryl includes bicyclic rings wherein one ring is aromatic and the other is not in these instances the heteroatom s can be in either the aromatic or nonaromatic ring for example indolinyl. Heteroaryl groups within the scope of this definition include but are not limited to benzoimidazolyl benzofuranyl benzofurazanyl benzopyrazolyl benzotriazolyl benzothiophenyl benzoxazolyl carbazolyl carbolinyl cinnolinyl furanyl indolinyl indolyl indolazinyl indazolyl isobenzofuranyl isoindolyl isoquinolyl isothiazolyl isoxazolyl naphthpyridinyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl oxazoline isoxazoline pyranyl pyrazinyl pyrazolyl pyridazinyl pyridopyridinyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyrrolyl quinazolinyl quinolyl quinoxalinyl tetrazolyl tetrazolopyridyl thiadiazolyl thiazolyl thienyl triazolyl dihydrobenzoimidazolyl dihydrobenzofuranyl dihydrobenzothiophenyl dihydrobenzoxazolyl dihydroindolyl dihydroquinolinyl methylenedioxybenzene benzothiazolyl benzothienyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl oxazolyl and tetra hydroquinoline. If the heteroaryl contains nitrogen atoms it is understood that the corresponding N oxides thereof are also encompassed by this definition.

The term heterocycle or heterocyclyl as used herein is intended to mean a 5 to 10 membered nonaromatic ring unless otherwise specified containing from 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of O N S SO or SOand includes bicyclic groups. Heterocyclyl therefore includes but is not limited to the following piperazinyl piperidinyl pyrrolidinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropiperidinyl tetrahydrothiophenyl azaspiro 2.5 octanyl dioxidothiaazaspiro 2.5 octanyl and the like. If the heterocycle contains a nitrogen it is understood that the corresponding N oxides thereof are also emcompassed by this definition.

As appreciated by those of skill in the art halo or halogen as used herein is intended to include chloro fluoro bromo and iodo.

In certain instances substituents may be defined with a range of carbons that includes zero such as C C alkylene aryl. If aryl is taken to be phenyl this definition would include phenyl itself as well as CHPh CHCHPh CH CH CHCH CH Ph and so on.

The present invention also includes N oxide derivatives and protected derivatives of compounds of Formula I. For example when compounds of Formula I contain an oxidizable nitrogen atom the nitrogen atom can be converted to an N oxide by methods well known in the art. Also when compounds of Formula I contain groups such as hydroxy carboxy thiol or any group containing a nitrogen atom s these groups can be protected with a suitable protecting groups. A comprehensive list of suitable protective groups can be found in T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons Inc. 1981 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The protected derivatives of compounds of Formula I can be prepared by methods well known in the art.

The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of this invention include the conventional non toxic salts of the compounds of this invention as formed inorganic or organic acids. For example conventional non toxic salts include those derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric sulfamic phosphoric nitric and the like as well as salts prepared from organic acids such as acetic propionic succinic glycolic stearic lactic malic tartaric citric ascorbic pamoic maleic hydroxymaleic phenylacetic glutamic benzoic salicylic sulfanilic 2 acetoxy benzoic fumaric toluenesulfonic methanesulfonic ethane disulfonic oxalic isethionic trifluoroacetic and the like. The preparation of the pharmaceutically acceptable salts described above and other typical pharmaceutically acceptable salts is more fully described by Berg et al. Pharmaceutical Salts 1977 66 1 19 hereby incorporated by reference. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of this invention can be synthesized from the compounds of this invention which contain a basic or acidic moiety by conventional chemical methods. Generally the salts of the basic compounds are prepared either by ion exchange chromatography or by reacting the free base with stoichiometric amounts or with an excess of the desired salt forming inorganic or organic acid in a suitable solvent or various combinations of solvents. Similarly the salts of the acidic compounds are formed by reactions with the appropriate inorganic or organic base.

The compounds disclosed in the present application exhibited activity in the following assays. In addition the compounds disclosed in the present application have an enhanced pharmacological profile relative to previously disclosed compounds.

Serial dilutions 1 3 from 500 M down to 0.025 M of test compounds were prepared in dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO . Then 0.5 L of DMSO from each dilution were added to 18.75 L of assay buffer MES 50 mM pH 5.5 EDTA 2.5 mM DTT 2.5 mM and 10 DMSO containing human cathepsin K 0.4 nM in assay buffer solution. The assay solutions were mixed for 5 10 seconds on a shaker plate and incubated for 15 minutes at room temperature. Z Leu Arg AMC 8 M in 6.25 L of assay buffer was added to the assay solutions. Hydrolysis of the coumarin leaving group AMC was followed by spectrofluorometry Ex 360 nm Em 460 nm for 30 minutes. Percent of inhibition were calculated by fitting experimental values to standard mathematical model for dose response curve.

Serial dilutions 1 3 from 500 M down to 0.025 M of test compounds were prepared in dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO . Then 0.5 L of DMSO from each dilution were added to 18.75 L of assay buffer MES 50 mM pH 5.5 EDTA 2.5 mM DTT 2.5 mM and 10 DMSO containing human cathepsin L 0.027 nM in assay buffer solution. The assay solutions were mixed for 5 10 seconds on a shaker plate and incubated for 15 minutes at room temperature. Z Leu Arg AMC 8 M in 6.25 L of assay buffer was added to the assay solutions. Hydrolysis of the coumarin leaving group AMC was followed by spectrofluorometry Ex 360 nm Em 460 nm for 30 minutes. Percent of inhibition were calculated by fitting experimental values to standard mathematical model for dose response curve

Serial dilutions 1 3 from 500 M down to 0.025 M of test compounds were prepared in dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO . Then 0.5 L of DMSO from each dilution were added to 18.75 L of assay buffer MES 50 mM pH 5.5 EDTA 2.5 mM DTT 2.5 mM and 10 DMSO containing human cathepsin B 0.1 nM in assay buffer solution. The assay solutions were mixed for 5 10 seconds on a shaker plate and incubated for 15 minutes at room temperature. Boc Leu Lys Arg AMC 8 M in 6.25 L of assay buffer was added to the assay solutions. Hydrolysis of the coumarin leaving group AMC was followed by spectrofluorometry Ex 360 nm Em 460 nm for 30 minutes. Percent of inhibition were calculated by fitting experimental values to standard mathematical model for dose response curve.

Serial dilutions 1 3 from 500 M down to 0.025 M of test compounds were prepared in dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO . Then 0.5 L of DMSO from each dilution were added to 18.75 L of assay buffer MES 50 mM pH 5.5 EDTA 2.5 mM DTT 2.5 mM and 10 DMSO containing human cathepsin S 0.66 nM in assay buffer solution. The assay solutions were mixed for 5 10 seconds on a shaker plate and incubated for 15 minutes at room temperature. Z Val Val Arg AMC 8 M in 6.25 L of assay buffer was added to the assay solutions. Hydrolysis of the coumarin leaving group AMC was followed by spectrofluorometry Ex 360 nm Em 460 nm for 20 minutes. Percent of inhibition were calculated by fitting experimental values to standard mathematical model for dose response curve.

Serial dilutions 1 3 from 500 M down to 0.025 M of test compounds were prepared in dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO . Then 0.5 L of DMSO from each dilution were added to 18.75 L of assay buffer MES 50 mM pH 5.5 EDTA 2.5 mM DTT 2.5 mM and 10 DMSO containing human cathepsin F 10 nM in assay buffer solution. The assay solutions were mixed for 5 10 seconds on a shaker plate and incubated for 15 minutes at room temperature. Z Phe Arg AMC 8 M in 6.25 L of assay buffer was added to the assay solutions. Hydrolysis of the coumarin leaving group AMC was followed by spectrofluorometry Ex 360 nm Em 460 nm for 20 minutes. Percent of inhibition were calculated by fitting experimental values to standard mathematical model for dose response curve.

The animals are housed fed and cared for according to the Guidelines of the Canadian Council on Animal Care.

Male Sprague Dawley rats 250 400 g are fasted overnight prior to each PO blood level study. The rats are placed in the restrainer one at a time and the box firmly secured. The zero blood sample is obtained by nicking a small 1 mm or less piece off the tip of the tail. The tail is then stroked with a firm but gentle motion from the top to the bottom to milk out the blood.

Compounds are prepared as required in a standard dosing volume of 10 mL kg and administered orally by passing a 16 gauge 3 gavaging needle into the esophagus.

Subsequent blood collections are taken in the same manner as the zero blood sample except that there is no need to nick the tail again. The tail is cleaned with a piece of gauze and milked stroked as described above into the appropriately labeled tubes.

Immediately after sampling blood is centrifuged separated the plasma put into clearly marked vials and stored in a freezer until analyzed.

After the 4 hr time point bleed food is provided to the rats ad libitum. Water is provided at all times during the study.

The following vehicles with corresponding dose volumes may be used in PO rat blood level determinations 

For analysis aliquots are diluted with 1.2 to 1.5 volumes of acetonitrile optionally containing an internal standard and centrifuged to remove protein precipitate. The supernatant is injected directly onto a C 18 HPLC column with mass spectrometry MS or ultra violet absorbance UV or fluorescence Fluo detection. Quantization is done relative to a standard curve prepared using clean blood samples spiked with a known quantities of drug in acetonitrile optionally containing an internal standard. Additional acetonitrile optionally containing internal standard is added to amount 1.2 to 1.5 volumes of the initial blood amount to correspond to what was done in the case of the samples. Bioavailability F is assessed by comparing area under the curve AUC i.v. versus p.o.

The animals are housed fed and cared for according to the Guidelines of the Canadian Council on Animal Care.

Dosing of the conscious rats for intravenous administration is done via the jugular vein using a 25 gauge needle. This constitutes the zero time point.

The 5 min bleed is taken by nicking a piece 1 2 mm off the tip of the tail. The tail is then stroked with a firm but gentle motion from the top of the tail to the bottom to milk the blood out of the tail. Approximately 0.5 mL of blood is collected into a heparinized collection vial. Subsequent bleeds are taken in the same fashion except that there is no need to nick the tail again. The tail is cleaned with a piece of gauze and bled as described above into the appropriate labeled tubes.

For analysis aliquots are diluted with 1.2 to 1.5 volumes of acetonitrile optionally containing an internal standard and centrifuged to remove protein precipitate. The supernatant is injected directly onto a C 18 HPLC column with mass spectrometry MS or ultra violet absorbance UV or fluorescence Fluo detection. Quantization is done relative to a standard curve prepared using clean blood samples spiked with a known quantities of drug in acetonitrile optionally containing an internal standard. Additional acetonitrile optionally containing internal standard is added to amount 1.2 to 1.5 volumes of the initial blood amount to correspond to what was done in the case of the samples. Bioavailability F is assessed by comparing area under the curve AUC i.v. versus p.o.

For rat hepatocyte incubations 1 10cells diluted in 0.5 mL of Krebs Henseleit buffer were first prepared at 37 C. for 20 min under 95 5 O CO BOC gases Montreal Canada in a 48 well plate and the 5 L of a 10 mM solution of compound dissolved in acetonitrile were added to each well to a final concentration of 50 After 2 h of incubation at 37 C. under 95 5 O COatmosphere one volume of acetonitrile was added in each well. A quenched incubation spiked with the parent compound and a blank were also prepared as controls. Once transferred samples were centrifuged for 10 min at 14 000 rpm using an Eppendorf 5415C centrifuge Hamburg Germany and the supernatant used for LC UV MS analysis.

Alternatively compounds of the present invention may be prepared by hydrolysis of the ester 1.6 with either aqueous base or acid leading to 1.11. Resulting carboxylic acid 1.11 can be coupled with corresponding amines in the presence of amide coupling reagents such as but not limited to HATU giving amides 1.12. Palladium catalyzed Suzuki cross coupling reaction of bromo thiazole 1.12 with the corresponding organoborane 1.7 or corresponding organoboronic acid affords the desired compounds 1.10 of the current invention.

Alternatively compounds of the present invention may be prepared by hydrolysis of the methyl ester 2.3 with either aqueous base or acid leading to 2.7. Resulting carboxylic acid 2.7 can be coupled with corresponding amines in the presence of amide coupling reagents such as but not limited to HATU giving amides 2.8. Palladium catalyzed Suzuki cross coupling reaction of bromo oxazole 2.7 with the corresponding organoborane 1.7 or corresponding organoboronic acid affords the desired compounds 2.6 of the current invention.

Compounds of the present invention may also be prepared according to Scheme 3. Thus the reaction of Fmoc isothiocyanate with an amine 3.1 leads to Fmoc protected thiourea 3.2 that can be converted to a corresponding thiourea 3.3 by deprotection of Fmoc group with piperidine. Consequently condensation of a thiourea 3.3 with chloroketone 1.2 under heating leads to substituted thiozole 3.4. Bromination of thiozole 3.4 with either bromine or NBS leads to compound 3.5. Palladium catalyzed Suzuki cross coupling reaction of bromo thiozole 3.5 with organoborane 1.7 or corresponding organoboronic acid affords compounds 3.6. Hydrolysis of the methyl ester 3.6 with either aqueous base or acid leads to carboxylic acid 3.7 that can be coupled with corresponding amines in the presence of amide coupling reagents such as but not limited to HATU giving the desired compounds 3.8 of the current invention.

Alternatively compounds of the present invention may be prepared by hydrolysis of the methyl ester 3.5 with either aqueous base or acid leading to 3.9. Resulting carboxylic acid 3.9 can be coupled with corresponding amines in the presence of amide coupling reagents such as but not limited to HATU giving amides 3.10. Palladium catalyzed Suzuki cross coupling reaction of bromo thiozole 3.10 with organoborane 1.7 or corresponding organoboronic acid affords the desired compounds 3.8 of the current invention.

Compounds of the present invention may also be prepared according to Scheme 4. Thus palladium catalyzed Suzuki cross coupling reaction of bromo thiazole 1.6 with organoboronic acid or corresponding organoborane affords bromophenyl thiazole 4.1 that can undergo palladium catalyzed amination with corresponding amines leading to compound 4.2. Hydrolysis of the methyl ester 4.2 with either aqueous base or acid followed by amidation with corresponding amines in the presence of amide coupling reagents such as but not limited to HATU affords compounds 4.3 of the current invention.

Alternatively compounds of the present invention may be prepared by hydrolysis of the methyl ester 4.1 with either aqueous base or acid leading to carboxylic acid 4.4 that can be coupled with corresponding amines in the presence of amide coupling reagents such as but not limited to HATU giving amides 4.5. Palladium catalyzed amination of bromophenyl thiazole 4.5 with corresponding amines affords compounds 4.3 of the current invention.

Alternatively hydrolysis of the methyl ester 1.6 with either aqueous base or acid followed by amidation with corresponding amines in the presence of amide coupling reagents such as but not limited to HATU affords compound 1.12 that can be converted to compound 4.5 by palladium catalyzed Suzuki cross coupling reaction with organoboronic acid or corresponding organoborane. Palladium catalyzed amination of bromophenyl thiazole 4.5 with corresponding amines affords compounds 4.3 of the current invention.

This compound can be prepared from 1R 2S dimethyl cyclohex 4 ene 1 2 dicarboxylate following a similar procedure as described in 1995 117 10905 10913 and in HELVETICA CHIMICA ACTA Vol. 70 1987 p. 142

To a solution of 1R 2R 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 2 g 10.7 mmol 1 equiv in CHCl 6 mL was added oxalyl chloride 2.04 g 16.1 mmol 1.5 equiv and DIME 0.02 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred at RT for 18 h. Nitrogen gas was bubbled through the reaction mixture for 20 min and then concentrated to give 3 g of 1R 2R Methyl 2 chlorocarbonyl cyclohexanecarboxylate as a brown oil which was used without further purification.

2 M Solution of diazomethyl trimethylsilane in hexanes 26.9 mL 53.8 mmol 2 equiv was added to the solution of calcium oxide 3.32 g 59.1 mmol 2.2 equiv in THF MeCN 1 1 200 mL at 0 C. under N. The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 20 min. The solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 chlorocarbonyl cyclohexanecarboxylate 5.5 g 26.9 mmol in THF MeCN 1 1 10 ml was added to the mixture and the reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 24 hours filtered over celite and evaporated to yield a yellow oil. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel Hexanes EtOAc 0 100 to give 5 g 88 of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 diazoacetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate as a yellow solid.

 1R 2R methyl 2 2 diazoacetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate 2 g 9.51 mmol was dissolved in DCM 100 mL and flask was cooled to 0 C. 4 N HCl in dioxane 7.14 mL 28.5 mmol 3 equiv was added dropwise to the solution and the resulting mixture was stirred at 25 C. for 12 hours. The reaction mixture was filtered over a phase separator solvent was evaporated and the residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel Hexanes EtOAc 0 40 giving 1.9 g 81 of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 chloroacetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate INTERMEDIATE 1 as yellow oil MS ES m z 218.8 M 1 220.8 M 1 H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 1.32 1.24 m 4 H 1.83 bd J 7.30 Hz 2 H 1.99 bd J 10.49 Hz 1 H 2.18 bd J 8.11 Hz 1 H 2.78 2.73 m 1 H 2.94 2.89 m 1 H 3.65 3.64 bs 3 H 4.31 s 2 H .

Into a 50 mL round bottom flask was placed a solution of 1R 6S 6 methoxycarbonyl cyclohex 3 enecarboxylic acid 2.40 g 13.0 mmol 1.00 equiv in N N dimethylformamide 30 mL . To this solution was added potassium carbonate 3.59 g 26.0 mmol 2.00 equiv . This was followed by the addition of benzyl bromide 3.34 g 19.5 mmol 1.50 equiv dropwise with stirring at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred for 16 h at ambient temperature. The resulting mixture was diluted with brine 50 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was applied onto silica gel column chromatography with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 30 1 15 . This resulted in 3.20 g 90 of 1R 2S 1 benzyl 2 methyl cyclohex 4 ene 1 2 dicarboxylate as a colorless oil H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 7.43 7.30 m 5H 5.69 s 2H 5.14 s 2H 3.58 s 3H 3.14 3.05 m 2H 2.64 2.53 m 2H 2.42 2.34 m 2H MS ES m z 275.1 M 1 .

Into a 500 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed a solution of diethylzinc 1 M in hexane 46.8 mL 4.00 equiv in anhydrous dichloromethane 150 mL . This was followed by the addition of trifluoroacetic acid 5.34 g 46.8 mmol 4.00 equiv dropwise with stirring at 0 C. To this solution was added diiodomethane 12.5 g 46.8 mmol 4.00 equiv dropwise with stirring at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 15 min at 0 C. Then a solution of 1R 2S 1 benzyl 2 methyl cyclohex 4 ene 1 2 dicarboxylate 3.20 g 11.7 mmol 1.00 equiv in anhydrous dichloromethane 50 mL was added dropwise with stirring at 0 C. The reaction solution was stirred and warmed slowly to ambient temperature for 16 h. The reaction solution was quenched by the addition of water 300 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 200 mL . The combined organic layers was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was applied onto silica gel column chromatography with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 20 1 10 . This resulted in 3.10 g 92 of 3R 4S 3 benzyl 4 methyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 4 dicarboxylate as light yellow oil MS ES m z 289.0 M 1 .

Into a 250 mL round bottom flask was placed a solution of 3R 4S 3 benzyl 4 methyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 4 dicarboxylate 3.10 g 10.8 mmol 1.00 equiv in methanol 100 mL followed by the addition of palladium 10 on carbon 0.300 g wetted with ca. 55 water . The reaction mixture was degassed with hydrogen for 3 times and stirred under hydrogen balloon for 16 h at ambient temperature. The solid was filtered out. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. This resulted in 2.10 g 89 of crude 3R 4S 4 methoxycarbonyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylic acid as colorless oil which was used directly in next step without further purification MS ES m z 199.2 M 1 .

Into a 250 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed anhydrous methanol 130 mL . This was followed by the addition of sodium 2.00 g 87.0 mmol 8.21 equiv in portions at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred for 30 min at ambient temperature until sodium disappeared. To this solution was added a solution of 3R 4S 4 methoxycarbonyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylic acid 2.10 g 10.6 mmol 1.00 equiv in methanol 20 mL . The resulting solution was refluxed for 16 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. The pH value was adjusted to 4 with aqueous hydrochloric acid solution 1 M . The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 200 mL . The combined organic layers was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was applied onto silica gel column chromatography with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 5 1 3 . This resulted in 1.40 g 60 of 3R 4R 4 methoxycarbonyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylic acid as a light yellow oil H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.30 12.10 brs 1H 3.55 s 3H 2.36 2.25 m 3H 2.12 2.04 m 1H 1.79 1.74 m 1H 1.36 1.34 m 1H 0.99 0.95 m 2H 0.63 0.60 m 1H 0.10 0.08 m 1H MS ES m z 199.2 M 1 .

 3R 4R Methyl 4 chlorocarbonyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate was synthesized following the same procedure as for synthesis of 1R 2R methyl 2 chlorocarbonyl cyclohexanecarboxylate using 3R 4R 4 methoxycarbonyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylic acid 1.40 g 7.06 mmol 1.00 equiv and oxalyl chloride 1.80 g 14.2 mmol 2.00 equiv in toluene 30 mL . This resulted in 1.5 g 98 of the crude 3R 4R methyl 4 chlorocarbonyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate as a yellow oil which was used directly in next step without further purification.

 3R 4R Methyl 4 chlorocarbonyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate 0.900 g 4.15 mmol 1.00 equiv was dissolved in THF acetonitrile 1 1 18 mL in a round bottom flask that was purged with and maintained under nitrogen followed by the addition of trimethylsilyl diazomethane 6.22 mL 2 M in hexane 12.4 mmol 3.00 equiv dropwise at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at 23 C. for 16 hours. The solution of hydrogen chloride saturated in ethyl acetate 1 M 20 mL was added to the reaction mixture dropwise at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred at 23 C. for 2 hours and was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel column with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 20 1 5 giving 0.800 g 83 of 3R 4R methyl 4 2 chloroacetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate INTERMEDIATE 2 as a yellow oil MS ES m z 231.0 M 1 233.0 M 1 .

The solution of 1R 2R dimethyl 4 oxocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate 300 g 1.4 mol in toluene 6 L was added ethylene glycol 117 ml 2.1 mol and TsOH 5.29 g 0.028 mol . The resulted solution was refluxed for 6 hours. The reaction mixture was cool to 23 C. and washed with saturated NaHCO 2 5 L and water once. The organic phase was concentrated giving 7R 8R dimethyl 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.5 decane 7 8 dicarboxylate 330 g 91.2 as a yellow oil.

In a 50 L round bottom flask equipped with overhead stirring and pH Stat NZL 102 enzyme 60 g 5 g L was dissolved in 24 L of phosphate buffer pH 7. 7R 8R Dimethyl 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.5 decane 7 8 dicarboxylate 300 g 1.16 mol in 300 mL of DMSO solution was added dropwise and aged at 23 C. overnight. The reaction mixtures was dissolved in 3 1 EtOAc IPA extracted and the organic layer was washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated giving 7R 8R 7 methoxycarbonyl 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.5 decane 8 carboxylic acid 220 g 77.5 as a yellow solid.

To the solution of 7R 8R 7 methoxycarbonyl 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.5 decane 8 carboxylic acid 2.9 g 11.87 mmol in DMF 20 ml was added KCO 2.461 g 17.81 mmol and then bromomethyl benzene 3.05 g 17.81 mmol and KI 394 mg 2.375 mmol . The resulting suspension was stirred at RT overnight. The reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc and purified by flash chromatography on silica gel giving 2.95 g 74 of 7R 8R 8 benzyl 7 methyl 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.5 decane 7 8 dicarboxylate as oil.

To the solution of 7R 8R 8 benzyl 7 methyl 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.5 decane 7 8 dicarboxylate 2.95 g 8.82 mmol in acetone 40 ml was added 1N HCl 40 mL and the resulting mixture was heated at 60 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc water organic phase was dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel giving 2.56 g 100 of 1R 2R 1 benzyl 2 methyl 4 oxocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate as a clear oil.

The solution of 1R 2R 1 benzyl 2 methyl 4 oxocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate 2.6 g 8.96 mmol in THF 45 ml was cooled with salt ice bath 5 C. and NaBH 0.678 g 17.91 mmol was added. The resulted solution was stirred at 0 C. for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched carefully with water and EtOAc. The organic phase was dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel giving 2.05 g 78 of the desired alcohol 1R 2R 4R 1 benzyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxycyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate.

To a solution of XtalFluor M 1.704 g 7.01 mmol in DCM 4 mL was added triethylamine trihydrofluoride 2.261 g 14.03 mmol . The resulting suspension was stirred for 10 min at RT and cooled to 78 C. 1R 2R 4R 1 Benzyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxycyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate 2.05 g 7.01 mmol solution in DCM 10 mL was added at with internal temp kept 

The suspension of Pd C 10 122 mg 0.115 mmol in EtOAc 1 ml was added to 1R 2R 4S 1 benzyl 2 methyl 4 fluorocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate 675 mg 2.293 mmol . The resulted suspension was stirred at 1 atm Hballoon for 5 hour. The reaction mixture was filtered and concentrated to give 770 mg 100 of the desired 1R 2R 4S 4 fluoro 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid as a colorless oil.

To a solution of 1R 2R 4S 4 fluoro 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 937 mg 4.59 mmol in DCM 4.59 mL was added oxalyl dichloride 3.44 mL 6.89 mmol slowly followed by addition of DMF 1 drop . The resulting mixture was stirred at RT for 3.5 hours then Nwas bubbled through reaction mixture for 10 minutes to blow off the excess of HCl. The solution was concentrated under reduced pressure to give 995 mg 97 of crude desired product as brown oil which was used without further purification.

2 M Solution of TMS diazomethane in hexanes 22.46 ml 44.9 mmol was added to a solution of 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 chlorocarbonyl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 1 g 4.49 mmol in dioxane 2.99 ml at RT. The resulting mixture was capped and left at RT over weekend. A solution of 4 M HCl in dioxane 13.47 ml 53.9 mmol was added slowly vigorous exothermal to the reaction mixture. The resulting mixture was stirred 1 hour. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure giving yellow oil. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel with hexanes EtOAc 0 75 giving 835 mg 79 of the desired product INTERMEDIATE 3 as yellow oil MS ES m z 237.3 M 1 .

Racemic dimethyl 4 oxocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate 660 g was changed into 11 L of 50 mM phosphate buffer pH 6.8. Esterase K310 903 25 mL was added to the solution and the resulting mixture was stirred at 30 C. overnight. 1N NaOH was added to pH 7 and the solution was extracted with MTBE 4 8 L . The combined organic fraction was washed with brine dry NaSO and filtered. Removal the solvent by evaporation gave 225 g 34 yield 98 ee of 1R 2R dimethyl 4 oxocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate as oil.

To a solution of EtN.3HF 224 g 1.38 mol in DCE 2.8 L was added DAST.BF 630 g 2.74 mol . The resulting suspension was stirred for 10 min and then 1R 2R dimethyl 4 oxocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate 280 g 1.31 mol was added. The mixture was heated at 55 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was poured into saturated NaHCO 5.6 L and then extracted with DCM 2 L 3 . The organic layer was dried NaSO concentrated and purified by flash chromatography petroleum ether EtOAc 15 1 to afford 260 g of pale yellow oil. The yellow oil was dissolved in 4 L DCM. 3 L of 5 KMnO4 aqueous solution was added. The mixture was stirred at 23 C. overnight. The organic layer was separated washed with 3 L of 5 KMnOfor another 3 hour. The organic layer was separated washed with brine dried NaSO and concentrated to dryness giving 1R 2R dimethyl 4 4 difluorocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate

as white solid 230 g 74.5 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.19 8.22 m 2H 7.83 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.65 7.69 m 1H 7.52 7.55 m 2H 7.37 s 1H 7.22 dd J 8.1 Hz J 2.0 Hz 1H 3.17 3.20 m 2H 2.73 2.76 m 2H .

Cal B enzyme 26.5 mL was dissolved in 0.1M phosphate buffer at pH 7.0 6.8 L . 1R 2R dimethyl 4 4 difluorocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate 100 g in DMSO 300 mL was added into the reaction mixture and stirred at 25 C. for 6 hours. The solution was washed with brine 1 L and extracted with MTBE 3 L 4 . The combined organic layer was washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated to give 1R 2R 4 4 difluoro 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid as white solid 90 g 94 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 3.65 S 3H 2.93 m 1H 2.68 m 1H 2.39 m 1H 2.12 m 2H 1.74 m 3H .

Into a 10 mL round bottom flask maintained under N were placed 1R 2R 4 4 difluoro 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 666 mg 3.00 mmol 1.00 equiv 1 1 di tert butoxy N N dimethylmethaneamine 1.83 g 9 mmol 3.00 equiv toluene 3 mL . The final reaction mixture was stirred for 72 hours at 100 C. The reaction was cooled to ambient temperature. After concentration of the mixture the residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 3 1 2 . This resulted in 400 mg 48 of 1R 2R 1 tert butyl 2 methyl 4 4 difluorocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate as yellow oil H NMR 400 MHz CDCl ppm 1.45 s 9H 1.69 1.90 m 3H 2.11 2.20 m 2H 2.41 2.45 m 1H 2.57 2.60 m 1H 2.93 2.97 m 1H 3.73 s 3H .

Into a 100 mL round bottom flask were placed of 1R 2R 1 tert butyl 2 methyl 4 4 difluorocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate 3.80 g 13.65 mmol 1.00 equiv methanol 30 mL water 30 mL lithium hydroxide hydrate 1.15 g 27.41 mmol 2.01 equiv . The resulting solution was stirred for 48 h at 40 C. in an oil bath. The organic solvent was removed under vacuum. The resulting solution was extracted with of ethyl acetate 30 mL 2 . The aqueous layers was adjust the pH 4 with hydrogen chloride 1.0 mol L . The resulting solution was extracted with of ethyl acetate 40 mL 3 . The combined organic layers were washed with of brine 30 mL 2 dried NaSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum. This resulted in 3.70 g 92 of 1R 2R 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 5 5 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylic acid as yellow oil H NMR 400 MHz CDCl ppm 1.46 s 9H 1.76 1.93 m 3H 2.11 2.25 m 2H 2.45 2.56 m 2H 2.94 3.02 m 1H .

 1R 2R 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 5 5 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylic acid 0.8 g 3.03 mmol 1.00 equiv was dissolved in DCM 10.0 mL . Oxalyl chloride 0.43 mL 5.00 mmol 1.65 equiv was added dropwise at 0 C. followed by the addition of one drop of DIME. The resulting solution was stirred for 2 hours at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure giving 857 mg crude of 1R 2R tert butyl 2 chlorocarbonyl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylate as a brown oil which was used directly without further purification.

Into a 250 mL round bottom flask purged and maintained with nitrogen 1R 2R tert butyl 2 chlorocarbonyl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 857 mg 3.03 mmol 1.00 equiv was dissolved in THF 2.5 mL and acetonitrile 2.5 mL followed by the addition of trimethylsilyldiazomethane 4.6 mL 2 M in hexanes 9.10 mmol 3.00 equiv dropwise at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 16 h at ambient temperature. To this solution was added hydrogen chloride 15.2 mL 15.2 mmol 1 M in ethyl acetate 5.02 equiv dropwise at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred for additional 2 hours at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel column with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 20 1 5 . This resulted in 590 mg 66 of 1R 2R tert Butyl 2 2 chloroacetyl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylate INTERMEDIATE 4 as a yellow oil H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 4.35 s 2H 3.27 3.26 m 1H 2.77 2.76 m 1H 2.33 2.18 m 3H 1.81 1.72 m 3H 1.59 s 9H .

Dissolved a mixture of 1 4 dibromobenzene 10.014 g 42.4 mmol and thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide 5.16 g 38.2 mmol in dioxane 150 mL then added Pd OAc 959 mg 4.24 mmol BINAP racemic 2.64 g 4.24 mmol and CsCO 41.48 g 127 mmol . The reaction mixture was degassed several times then connected to a reflux condenser under nitrogen and heated to 100 C. for overnight. The reaction was cooled to RT then filtered through celite and washed with EtOAc. The resulting solution was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel 0 50 EtOAc in hexanes to yield 6.45 g 50 of the desired 4 4 Bromophenyl thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide as a light yellow solid. MS ES m z 292.1 M 1 .

4 4 Bromophenyl thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide 4.93 g 16.99 mmol was dissolved in dioxane 24 mL followed by addition of bis pinacolato diboron 5.18 g 20.39 mmol PdCl dppf CHCladduct 1.39 g 1.7 mmol and KOAc 5 g 51 mmol . The reaction flask was topped with a reflux condenser and degassed with nitrogen several times. The reaction mixture was heated at 80 C. for 12 hours cooled to RT and brine was added to the reaction. The resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic phase was dried NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel 0 40 EtOAc in hexanes to yield 7.12 g 52 of 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide INTERMEDIATE 5 as a light yellow solid MS ES m z 338.2 M 1 .

To the solution of thiomorpholine 7 g 67.8 mmol in toluene 170 mL in a 500 mL round bottom flask under Nwere added 1 4 dibromobenzene 20.8 g 88 mmol Pd dba 1.55 g 1.7 mmol BINAP 2.112 g 3.39 mmol and tert BuOK 16.3 g 170 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 86 C. for 1.5 2 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 600 mL . The resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 600 mL . The combined organic fractions were washed with brine 600 mL dried MgSO filtered and solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on ISCO silica gel column Hexane EtOAc 0 10 giving 14.1 g 81 of the 4 4 bromophenyl thiomorpholine as light yellow solid.

4 4 bromophenyl thiomorpholine 200 mg 0.775 mmol was dissolved in CHCN 5 mL in a round bottom flask. FeClhydride 7.9 mg 0.029 mmol periodic acid 194 mg 0.852 mmol were added to the solution at 23 C. and the resulting mixture was stirred over night at room temperature. EtOAc 60 70 mL was added to the reaction mixture and the solution was washed with brine 3 50 mL . Most of the solid gets dissolved during work up. The organic layer was dried MgSO filtered and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel ISCO CHCl MeOH 0 10 giving 210 mg 99 of 4 4 bromophenyl thiomorpholine 1 oxide as off white solid.

To the solution of 4 4 bromophenyl thiomorpholine 1 oxide 11 g 40.1 mmol in CHCl 150 mL in 250 mL round bottom flask under Nwas added 2 2 2 trifluoroacetamide 11.46 g 101 mmol iodobenzene diacetate 20 g 1.55 eq 62.1 mmol magnesium oxide 6.63 g 4 eq 160 mmol and Rhodium II acetate dimer 1.67 g 3.78 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 40 C. under Nfor overnight. The solids were filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel ISCO Hexanes EtOAc 0 50 giving 6 g 38.8 of N 4 4 bromophenyl 1 oxidothiomorpholin 1 ylidene 2 2 2 trifluoroacetamide as light yellow solid.

To the solution of N 4 4 bromophenyl 1 oxidothiomorpholin 1 ylidene 2 2 2 trifluoroacetamide 0.5 g 1.3 mmol in anhydrous DMSO 6.5 mL were added bis pinacolato diboron 1.1 g 4.33 mmol Pd dppf Cl 100 mg 0.137 mmol and KOAc 0.637 g 6.49 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at 100 C. for 6 h then left at RT for overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 60 mL and the resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 4 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 150 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel ISCO Hexanes EtOAc 0 45 giving 240 mg 45 of 2 2 2 Trifluoro N 1 oxido 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl thiomorpholin 1 ylidene acetamide INTERMEDIATE 6 as white solid.

N 4 4 bromophenyl 1 oxidothiomorpholin 1 ylidene 2 2 2 trifluoroacetamide from Step C of INTERMEDIATE 1 1 g 2.6 mmol was dissolved in MeOH 15 mL and THF 4 mL . KCO 2.2 g 12.41 mmol was added to the solution and the reaction mixture was stirred at 23 C. for 1 hour and filtered through a celite silica gel short layer. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure giving orange residue that was dissolved in water added 1 N HCl until solution got pH 3 4. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL . The combined organic fractions were washed with water 30 mL brine 30 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure giving 620 mg 83 of 4 4 bromophenyl 1 iminothiomorpholine 1 oxide. The product was used in the next step without further purification.

4 4 Bromophenyl 1 iminothiomorpholine 1 oxide 620 mg 2.14 mmol was dissolved in MeOH 17 mL . Added 37 solution of formaldehyde 1.6 mL 21.44 mmol and bromocresol green as an internal pH indicator. 1 N NaOH was added until solution turns dark green blue. The resulting mixture was stirred for 5 min. AcOH was added to the solution until it became dark yellow color followed by the addition of NaCNBH 148 mg 2.36 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 5 min AcOH was used to adjust pH of the reaction and more NaCNBH 240 mg was added. The addition of AcOH and NaCNBHhad to be repeated until all starting material was consumed. The reaction mixture was quenched with water keeping reaction flask in the cold water bath then with saturated NaHCOuntil the solution turns light blue and stopped bubbling. The resulting mixture was extracted with CHCl 4 10 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with brine 40 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by Reverse Phase HPLC Gilson water CHCN 0.1 TFA 10 80 20 min. Fractions with the product were combined quenched with saturated NaHCOsolution and extracted with CHCl 3 50 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and evaporated giving 260 mg 40 of 4 4 bromophenyl 1 methylimino thiomorpholine 1 oxide.

To the solution of 4 4 bromophenyl 1 methylimino thiomorpholine 1 oxide 0.2 g 0.66 mmol in anhydrous DMSO 4 mL were added bis pinacolato diboron 670 g 2.64 mmol Pd dppf Cl 96 mg 0.132 mmol and KOAc 0.450 g 4.63 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 60 mL and the resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 4 60 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 150 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel ISCO EtOAc giving 150 mg 65 of 1 methylimino 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl thiomorpholine 1 oxide INTERMEDIATE 7 as off white solid.

To a solution of S benzyl 1 amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl carbamate 7.070 g 31.8 mmol in DMF 70.7 ml was added 2 4 6 trichloro 1 3 5 triazine 2.93 g 15.91 mmol and the resulting mixture was stirred at RT for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was then added slowly to 500 mL stirring ice water not much ice . The resulting thick suspension stirred for 30 min filtered washed with water and dried on filter overnight giving 5.4 g 83 of S benzyl 1 cyanoethyl carbamate as white solid MS ES m z 205.2 M 1 .

To a solution of S benzyl 1 cyanoethyl carbamate 6.042 g 29.6 mmol in EtOAc 296 ml was added Pearlman s catalyst 1 g 1.424 mmol and the resulting mixture was pressurized to 1 atm under Hballoon. The reaction mixture was stirred under Hat 1 atm for overnight. Palladium catalyst was filtered away and 4M HCl in dioxane 16.27 ml 65.1 mmol was added to the solution leading to formation of white suspension. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure giving crude S 2 aminopropanenitrile hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 8 as off white solid. The material was used without further purification.

To a solution of 3 3 difluorocyclobutanecarboxylic acid 0.200 g 1.47 mmol 1.00 equiv in CHCl 5 mL was added oxalyl chloride 0.28 g 2.20 mmol 1.5 equiv and DMF 0.011 mL 0.147 mmol 0.100 equiv . The resulting mixture was stirred at 23 C. for 18 h. Nitrogen gas was bubbled through the reaction mixture for 20 min and then concentrated to give 0.220 g 97 of crude 3 3 difluorocyclobutanecarbonyl chloride as a colorless solid which was used directly without purification.

The solution of 3 3 difluorocyclobutanecarbonyl chloride 0.220 g 1.42 mmol 1.00 equiv in tetrahydrofuran 5 mL was added dropwise to a stirred saturated solution of ammonia in methanol 5 mL at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at 10 C. for 30 min. The solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with dichloromethane 30 mL washed with brine 2 10 mL dried NaSO filtered and solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure giving 0.150 g 78 of 3 3 difluorocyclobutanecarboxamide as a colorless solid MS ES m z 136.1 M 1 .

Lawesson s reagent 0.225 g 0.56 mmol 0.500 equiv was added to a solution of 3 3 difluorocyclobutanecarboxamide 0.150 g 1.11 mmol 1.00 equiv in 1 2 dichloroethane 10.0 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 h at 75 C. and then concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel column with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 3 giving 80 mg 45 of 3 3 difluorocyclobutanecarbothioamide as a colorless solid MS ES m z 152.2 M 1 .

 1R 2R methyl 2 2 chloroacetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate INTERMEDIATE 1 0.110 g 0.503 mmol 1.00 equiv dioxane 1 mL and 3 3 difluorocyclobutanecarbothioamide 80.0 mg 0.503 mmol 1.00 equiv were placed into a 25 mL round bottom flask. The resulting mixture was stirred for 6 h at 125 C. and then was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography using ethyl acetate petroleum ether 4 1 . This resulted in 130 mg 80 of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 3 3 difluorocyclobutyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as a light yellow oil MS ES m z 316.2 M 1 .

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 3 3 difluorocyclobutyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 130 mg 0.404 mmol 1.00 equiv in acetonitrile 10 mL was added NBS 93.0 mg 0.525 mmol 1.30 equiv . The resulting solution was stirred for 30 hours at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography using ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 3 giving 140 mg 84 of crude 1R 2R methyl 2 5 bromo 2 3 3 difluorocyclobutyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as a light yellow oil HNMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 3.58 3.52 m 1H 3.51 s 3H 3.14 2.84 m 6H 2.10 2.05 m 1H 1.85 1.82 m 2H 1.62 1.24 m 4H 0.90 0.82 m 1H MS ES m z 394.0 M 1 396.0 M 1 .

Into a 10 mL microwave vial were placed 1R 2R methyl 2 5 bromo 2 3 3 difluorocyclobutyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 0.120 g 0.304 mmol 1.00 equiv 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide 0.154 g 0.457 mmol 1.50 equiv palladium diacetate 6.83 mg 0.0300 mmol 0.100 equiv TPPTS 34.6 mg 0.0610 mmol 0.200 equiv DMF water 3 1 2.0 mL and DIPA 0.133 mL 0.761 mmol 2.50 equiv consecutively. The reaction mixture was irradiated with microwave for 2 h at 80 C. The resulting solution was diluted with ethyl acetate 5.0 mL . The resulting mixture was washed with brine 5.0 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 10.0 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 3 10.0 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography using ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 1 . This resulted in 100 mg 57 of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 3 3 difluorocyclobutyl 5 4 thiomorpholino 1 1 dioxide phenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as a yellow oil MS ES m z 525.0 M 1 .

Into a 10 mL round bottom flask were placed 1R 2R methyl 2 2 3 3 difluorocyclobutyl 5 4 thiomorpholino 1 1 dioxide phenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 0.100 g 0.173 mmol 1.00 equiv lithium hydroxide 2 mL 3M in water 34.7 equiv and MeOH 6.0 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred for 16 h at 50 C. The resulting solution was diluted with water 5.0 mL and the pH of the reaction mixture was adjusted to pH 5 with 1 M aqueous hydrogen chloride. The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 10.0 mL the combined organic layers were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. This resulted in 70.0 mg 75 of 1R 2R 2 2 3 3 difluorocyclobutyl 5 4 thiomorpholino 1 1 dioxide phenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid as a yellow solid MS ES m z 511.0 M 1 .

Into a 25 mL round bottom flask were placed 1R 2R 2 2 3 3 difluorocyclobutyl 5 4 thiomorpholino 1 1 dioxide phenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 70.0 mg 0.123 mmol 1.00 equiv 1 aminocyclopropanecarbonitrile hydrochloride 73.1 mg 0.615 mmol 5.00 equiv HATU 94.0 mg 0.247 mmol 2.00 equiv DIPEA 0.215 mL 1.23 mmol 10.0 equiv and NMP 1 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred for 16 h at ambient temperature and diluted with ethyl acetate 5.0 mL . The resulting mixture was washed with brine 5.0 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 10.0 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 3 10.0 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography using ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 1 . This resulted in 47.6 mg 64 of 1R 2R N 1 cyanocyclopropyl 2 2 3 3 difluorocyclobutyl 5 4 thiomorpholino 1 1 dioxide phenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxamide as a light yellow solid HNMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 7.35 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 6.95 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 6.00 5.80 brs 1H 3.94 3.90 m 4H 3.85 3.65 m 1H 3.30 3.05 m 7H 3.05 2.94 m 1H 2.94 2.64 m 2H 1.90 1.55 m 6H 1.50 1.25 m 4H 1.03 0.88 m 2H MS ES m z 575.2 M 1 .

Into a 100 mL round bottom flask Lawesson s reagent 3.48 g 8.60 mmol 0.50 equiv was added to a solution of 5 chloronicotinamide 2.60 g 16.6 mmol 1.00 equiv in 1 2 dichloroethane 30.0 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 hours at 75 C. and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel column with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 3 . This resulted in 2.30 g 80 of 5 chloropyridine 3 carbothioamide as a light yellow solid MS ES m z 172.9 M 1 174.9 M 1 .

 1R 2R 2 tert Butoxy carbonyl 5 5 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylic acid 0.8 g 3.03 mmol 1.00 equiv was dissolved in DCM 10.0 mL . Oxalyl chloride 0.43 mL 5.00 mmol 1.65 equiv was added dropwise at 0 C. followed by the addition of one drop of DMF. The resulting solution was stirred for 2 h at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. This resulted in 857 mg crude of 1R 2R tert butyl 2 chlorocarbonyl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylate as a brown oil which was used directly without further purification.

Into a 250 mL round bottom flask purged and maintained with nitrogen 1R 2R tert butyl 2 chlorocarbonyl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 857 mg 3.03 mmol 1.00 equiv was dissolved in THF 2.5 mL and acetonitrile 2.5 mL followed by the addition of trimethylsilyldiazomethane 4.6 mL 2 M in hexanes 9.10 mmol 3.00 equiv dropwise at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 16 h at ambient temperature. To this solution was added hydrogen chloride 15.2 mL 15.2 mmol 1 M in ethyl acetate 5.02 equiv dropwise at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred for additional 2 hours at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel column with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 20 1 5 . This resulted in 590 mg 66 of 1R 2R tert Butyl 2 2 chloroacetyl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylate as a yellow oil H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 4.35 s 2H 3.27 3.26 m 1H 2.77 2.76 m 1H 2.33 2.18 m 3H 1.81 1.72 m 3H 1.59 s 9H .

Into a 25 mL round bottom flask were placed 1R 2R tert butyl 2 2 chloroacetyl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylate INTERMEDIATE 4 50.0 mg 0.168 mmol 1.00 equiv dioxane 1.0 mL and 5 chloropyridine 3 carbothioamide 58.0 mg 0.336 mmol 2.00 equiv . The resulting solution was stirred for 6 hours at 125 C. The resulting mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography using ethyl acetate petroleum ether 4 1 . This resulted in 40.0 mg 66 of 1R 2R 2 2 5 chloropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylic acid as a light brown solid MS ES m z 359.0 M 1 361.0 M 1 .

To a solution of 1R 2R 2 2 5 chloropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylic acid 100 mg 0.279 mmol 1.00 equiv in toluene 3.0 mL were added DBU 152 mg 1.00 mmol 3.58 equiv and iodomethane 94.9 mg 0.668 mmol 2.39 equiv consecutively. The resulting solution was stirred for 24 hours at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate 5.0 mL and water 5.0 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 5.0 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 5.0 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography using ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 3 . This resulted in 60.0 mg 58 of methyl 1R 2R 2 2 5 chloropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylate as a light brown solid MS ES m z 373.0 M 1 375.0 M 1 .

To a solution of methyl 1R 2R 2 2 5 chloropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 55.0 mg 0.148 mmol 1.00 equiv in acetonitrile 3.0 mL was added NBS 26.3 mg 0.148 mmol 1.00 equiv . The resulting solution was stirred for 30 h at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography using ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 3 . This resulted in 77.0 mg crude of 1R 2R methyl 2 5 bromo 2 5 chloropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylate as a light brown solid MS ES m z 492.0 M CHCN 1 494.0 M CHCN 1 .

Into a 10 mL microwave vial were placed methyl 1R 2R methyl 2 5 bromo 2 5 chloropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 60.0 mg 0.133 mmol 1.00 equiv 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide 58.2 mg 0.173 mmol 1.30 equiv Pd OAc 2.90 mg 0.0129 mmol 0.100 equiv TPPTS 11.3 mg 0.02 mmol 0.150 equiv DMF water 3 1 2.0 mL and DIPA 33.5 mg 0.331 mmol 2.50 equiv consecutively. The reaction mixture was irradiated with microwave for 2 h at 80 C. The resulting solution was diluted with ethyl acetate 5.0 mL and washed with brine 5.0 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 10.0 mL . The combined organic layers was washed with brine 3 10.0 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography using ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 1 . This resulted in 35.0 mg 45 of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 5 chloropyridin 3 yl 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl thiazol 4 yl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylate as a light yellow oil MS ES m z 582.4 M 1 584.4 M 1 .

Into a 10 mL round bottom flask were placed 1R 2R methyl 2 2 5 chloropyridin 3 yl 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl thiazol 4 yl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 25.0 mg 0.0430 mmol 1.00 equiv lithium hydroxide 9.24 mg 0.385 mmol 8.95 equiv THF 1.0 mL and water 1.0 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred for 16 hours at 50 C. The resulting solution was diluted with water 5.0 mL . The pH of the mixture was adjusted to pH 5 with 1 M aqueous hydrogen chloride. The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 10.0 mL and the combined organic layers were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography using ethyl acetate petroleum ether 4 1 . This resulted in 15.0 mg 61 of 1R 2R 2 2 5 chloropyridin 3 yl 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl thiazol 4 yl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylic acid as a light yellow oil MS ES m z 568.1 M 1 570.1 M 1 .

Into a 25 mL round bottom flask were placed 1R 2R 2 2 5 chloropyridin 3 yl 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl thiazol 4 yl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylic acid 10.0 mg 0.018 mmol 1.00 equiv 1 aminocyclopropanecarbonitrile hydrochloride 12.0 mg 0.101 mmol 5.74 equiv HATU 16.0 mg 0.042 mmol 2.39 equiv DIPEA 26.0 mg 0.201 mmol 11.4 equiv and DMF 1.5 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred for 16 h at ambient temperature and diluted with ethyl acetate 5.0 mL . The resulting mixture was washed with brine 5.0 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 10.0 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 3 10.0 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography using ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 1 . This resulted in 3.00 mg 27 of 1R 2R 2 2 5 chloropyridin 3 yl 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl thiazol 4 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl 4 4 difluorocyclohexanecarboxamide Compound 2 as a light yellow solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 9.12 s 1H 8.63 s 1H 8.27 s 1H 7.44 d J 9.0 Hz 2H 7.02 d J 9.0 Hz 2H 5.92 brs 1H 4.08 3.90 m 4H 3.62 3.45 m 1H 3.22 3.11 m 4H 2.91 2.78 m 1H 2.35 2.18 m 3H 2.13 1.91 m 3H 1.48 1.21 m 2H 0.92 0.83 m 2H MS ES m z 632.1 M 1 634.1 M 1 .

Into a 100 mL round bottom flask was placed 5 fluoropicolinic acid 2.00 g 14.2 mmol 1.00 equiv in thionyl chloride 40 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred for 1.5 h at 80 C. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. This resulted in 2.30 g of the crude 5 fluoropicolinoyl chloride as yellow oil which was used directly without further purification.

The solution of 5 fluoropicolinoyl chloride 2.30 g 14.4 mmol 1.00 equiv in THF 40 mL was added dropwise to a stirred saturated solution of ammonium hydroxide 40 mL at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at 10 C. for 30 min. The solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with dichloromethane 30 mL washed with brine 2 30 mL dried NaSO filtered and solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure giving 1.82 g 71 of 5 fluoropicolinamide as a yellow solid MS ES m z 140.9 M 1 .

Lawesson s reagent 2.63 g 6.50 mmol 0.500 equiv was added to a solution of 5 fluoropicolinamide 1.82 g 13.0 mmol 1.00 equiv in 1 2 dichloroethane 50 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 hours at 75 C. and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel column with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 3 giving 1.81 g 89 of 5 fluoropyridine 2 carbothioamide as a yellow solid MS ES m z 157.0 M 1 .

 3R 4R Methyl 4 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step D of Example 1 using 3R 4R methyl 4 2 chloroacetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate INTERMEDIATE 2 0.200 g 0.870 mmol 1.00 equiv 5 fluoropyridine 2 carbothioamide from Step C 0.204 g 1.30 mmol 1.50 equiv and dioxane 1.5 mL 16 hours at 120 C. This resulted in 0.200 g 69 of 3R 4R methyl 4 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate as a light yellow oil MS ES m z 333.2 M 1 .

To a solution of 3R 4R methyl 4 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate 0.200 g 0.600 mmol 1.00 equiv in acetonitrile 8 mL was added NBS 0.107 g 1.82 mmol 3.02 equiv . The resulting solution was stirred for 30 hours at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography using ethyl acetate petroleum ether. This resulted in 180 mg 73 of 1 3R 4R methy 4 5 bromo 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate as a colorless solid MS ES m z 410.9 M 1 412.9 M 1 .

 3R 4R methyl 4 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step F of Example 1 using 3R 4R methy 4 5 bromo 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate 0.180 g 0.440 mmol 1.00 equiv DMF 2 mL water 1 mL 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide 0.222 g 0.660 mmol 1.50 equiv Pd OAc 4.92 mg 0.020 mmol 0.050 equiv TPPTS 37.3 mg 0.066 mmol 0.150 equiv and DIPA 0.113 g 0.880 mmol 2.00 equiv 1 hour at 70 C. This resulted in 0.200 g 84 of 3R 4R methyl 4 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate as a light yellow solid MS ES m z 542.1 M 1 .

 3R 4R 4 5 4 1 1 Dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylic acid was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step G of Example 1 using 3R 4R methyl 4 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate 0.200 g 0.370 mmol 1.00 equiv THF 4 mL MeOH 4 mL and aqueous 1 N sodium hydroxide 3.7 mL 16 hours at 40 C. This resulted in 180 mg 92 of 3R 4R 4 5 4 1 1 Dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylic acid as a light yellow solid MS ES m z 528.2 M 1 .

 3R 4R N 1 Cyanocyclopropyl 4 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxamide was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step H of Example 1 using 3R 4R 4 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylic acid 0.180 g 0.340 mmol 1.00 equiv DMF 5 mL 1 aminocyclopropanecarbonitrile hydrochloride 0.202 g 1.70 mmol 5.00 equiv HATU 0.324 g 0.850 mmol 2.50 equiv and DIPEA 0.330 g 2.55 mmol 7.48 equiv . This resulted in 0.135 g 67 of 3R 4R N 1 Cyanocyclopropyl 4 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxamide as a yellow solid MS ES m z 592.1 M 1 .

Racemic carboxamide 135 mg was separated by chiral prep HPLC with the following conditions Column chiralpak IC 2 25 cm 5 m Mobile phase phase A Hexane HPLC phase B Ethanol HPLC hold 50 phase B for 22 min Detector UV 220 and 254 nm. This resulted in 22.7 mg of 1S or 1R 3R 4R 6R or 6S N 1 cyanocyclopropyl 4 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxamide Compound 3 as a yellow solid which was obtained at 20.933 min H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 9.05 s 1H 8.57 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.05 d J 9.3 Hz 1H 7.47 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.00 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 6.13 6.10 brs 1H 4.03 3.94 m 4H 3.19 3.14 m 4H 2.95 2.83 m 1H 2.73 2.62 m 1H 2.33 2.19 m 2H 2.10 2.03 m 1H 1.95 1.83 m 1H 1.40 1.22 m 2H 1.15 0.95 m 2H 0.86 0.75 m 2H 0.72 0.66 m 1H 0.08 0.05 m 1H MS ES m z 592.4 M 1 and 63.1 mg of 1R or 1S 3R 4R 6S or 6R N 1 cyanocyclopropyl 4 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxamide Compound 4 as a yellow solid which was obtained at 25.691 min H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 9.01 s 1H 8.56 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 8.03 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.47 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.00 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 6.15 6.09 brs 1H 4.02 3.92 m 4H 3.19 3.14 m 4H 3.10 2.95 m 1H 2.61 2.50 m 1H 2.33 1.60 m 4H 1.40 1.20 m 2H 1.12 0.65 m 5H 0.21 0.17 m 1H MS ES m z 592.5 M 1 .

Into a 500 mL round bottom flask were placed 4 fluorobenzoic acid 5.00 g 35.7 mmol 1.00 equiv EDC 7.20 g 37.6 mmol 1.05 equiv HOAt 4.90 g 36.0 mmol 1.01 equiv dichloromethane 144 mL DMF 36 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred for 10 min at ambient temperature followed by the addition of ammonium hydroxide 6.50 g 46.4 mmol 1.30 equiv 25 dropwise with stirring. The resulting mixture was stirred for 16 h at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was quenched with aqueous sodium bicarbonate 200 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 5 100 mL . The combined organic layers was washed with water 2 500 mL brine 400 mL dried NaSO filtered and solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure. This resulted in 3.50 g crude of 4 fluorobenzamide as an off white solid MS ES m z 140.1 M 1 .

4 Fluorobenzothioamide was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step C of Example 1 using 4 fluorobenzamide 2.00 g 14.4 mmol 1.00 equiv Lawesson s reagent 2.90 g 7.17 mmol 0.50 equiv and dichloroethane 100 mL . This resulted in 1.50 g 58 of 4 fluorobenzothioamide as a yellow solid MS ES m z 156.1 M 1 .

 1R 2R Methyl 2 2 4 fluorophenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step D of Example 1 using methyl 1R 2R methyl 2 2 chloroacetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate INTERMEDIATE 1 200 mg 0.91 mmol 1.00 equiv and 4 fluorobenzothioamide 213 mg 1.37 mmol 1.50 equiv in dioxane 1.5 mL at 100 C. for 16 hours. This resulted in 182 mg 62 of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 4 fluorophenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as a yellow oil MS ES m z 320.4 M 1 .

 1R 2R Methyl 2 5 bromo 2 4 fluorophenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate was synthesized using 1R 2R methyl 2 2 4 fluorophenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 182 mg 0.57 mmol 1.00 equiv and bromine 180 mg 1.13 mmol 2.00 equiv in chloroform 3 mL at RT for 1 hour. This resulted in 220 mg 97 of 1R 2R methyl 2 5 bromo 2 4 fluorophenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as a yellow oil MS ES m z 398.0 M 1 400.0 M 1 .

 1R 2R 2 5 bromo 2 4 fluorophenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid was synthesized following similar procedure as in Step G of Example 1 using 1R 2R methyl 2 5 bromo 2 4 fluorophenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 160 mg 0.40 mmol 1.00 equiv and NaOH 80.6 mg 2.02 mmol 1.00 equiv in methanol 3 mL and water 1 mL . This resulted in 140 mg of crude 1R 2R 2 5 bromo 2 4 fluorophenyl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl cyclohexane 1 carboxylic acid as a yellow solid MS ES m z 384.0 M 1 386.0 M 1 .

 1R 2R 2 5 Bromo 2 4 fluorophenyl thiazol 4 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl cyclohexanecarboxamide was synthesized following similar procedure as in Step H of Example 1 using crude 1R 2R 2 5 bromo 2 4 fluorophenyl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl cyclohexane 1 carboxylic acid 140 mg 0.36 mmol 1.00 equiv in DMF 3 mL 1 aminocyclopropanecarbonitrile hydrochloride 216 mg 1.82 mmol 5.00 equiv DIPEA 377 mg 2.92 mmol 8.00 equiv HATU 278 mg 0.73 mmol 2.00 equiv . This resulted in 470 mg 84 of 1R 2R 2 5 bromo 2 4 fluorophenyl thiazol 4 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl cyclohexanecarboxamide as a yellow oil MS ES m z 448.1 M 1 450.1 M 1 .

 1R 2R N 1 Cyanocyclopropyl 2 2 4 fluorophenyl 5 4 1 imino 1 oxidothiomorpholino phenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxamide was synthesized following similar procedure as in Step F of Example 1 using 1R 2R 2 5 bromo 2 4 fluorophenyl thiazol 4 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl cyclohexanecarboxamide 60.0 mg 0.13 mmol 1.00 equiv 2 2 2 trifluoro N 1 oxido 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl thiomorpholin 1 ylidene acetamide INTERMEDIATE 3 67.7 mg 0.20 mmol 1.50 equiv in DMF 8 mL and water 2 mL Pd OAc 3.00 mg 0.010 mmol 0.100 equiv DIPA 33.9 mg 0.33 mmol 2.50 equiv and TPPTS 15.3 mg 0.030 mmol 0.200 equiv . This resulted in 20.5 mg 26 of 1R 2R N 1 cyanocyclopropyl 2 2 4 fluorophenyl 5 4 1 imino 1 oxidothiomorpholino phenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxamide as a light green solid H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 8.54 s 1H 8.02 7.97 m 2H 7.43 d J 9.0 Hz 2H 7.37 7.31 m 2H 7.12 d J 9.0 Hz 2H 3.98 3.93 m 2H 3.80 s 1H 3.75 3.68 m 2H 3.06 3.02 m 5H 2.82 2.75 m 1H 1.82 1.72 m 4H 1.60 1.21 m 6H 0.65 0.63 m 1H 0.43 0.29 m 1H MS ES m z 578.3 M 1 .

To a solution of 4 4 difluoropiperidine hydrochloride 100 mg 0.635 mmol in DCM 3.2 mL was added TEA 88 l 0.635 mmol and O 9H fluoren 9 yl methyl carbonisothiocyanatidate 196 mg 0.698 mmol and the resulting mixture was stirred at RT for 1 hour. Saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution was added to the reaction and the resulting mixture was extracted with DCM 3 20 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated to pale yellow oil. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel with Hexanes EtOAc 0 25 giving 244 mg 96 of the desired product as white solid MS ES m z 403.1 M 1 .

To a solution of 9H fluoren 9 yl methyl 4 4 difluoropiperidine 1 carbonothioyl carbamate 244 mg 0.606 mmol in THF 3 mL was added piperidine 75 l 0.758 mmol and the resulting mixture was stirred at RT for 2.5 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO 10 95 MeCN 0.1 of TFA 20 min giving 95 mg 87 of the desired product as white solid MS ES m z 181.2 M 1 .

A microwave vial was charged with 1R 2R methyl 2 2 chloroacetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate INTERMEDIATE 1 80 mg 0.366 mmol 4 4 difluoropiperidine 1 carbothioamide 82 mg 0.457 mmol and dioxane 1.46 mL . The resulting mixture was heated at 200 C. for 1 hour in microwave. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and residue was dissolved in DMF. The resulting solution was purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 5 95 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 106 mg 84 of the desired product as brown oil MS ES m z 345.2 M 1 .

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 4 4 difluoropiperidin 1 yl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 71 mg 0.205 mmol in chloroform 1.025 mL was added Br 0.026 ml 0.513 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 45 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and saturated aqueous NaSOwas added. The resulting mixture was stirred for 10 min diluted with DCM and water and extracted with DCM 3 10 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure giving crude desired product as oil that was used without further purification MS ES m z 423.1 M 1 425.1 M 1 .

A vial was charged with 1R 2R methyl 2 5 bromo 2 4 4 difluoropiperidin 1 yl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 87 mg 0.205 mmol 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide 86 mg 0.256 mmol Pd OAc 2.301 mg 10.25 mol triphenylphosphine 3 3 3 trisulfonic acid trisodium salt 17.48 mg 0.031 mmol DMF 1.54 mL water 513 l and DIPA 73.0 l 0.513 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at 80 C. for 1 hour. The reaction was cooled to RT filtered through a syringe filter and purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 10 95 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 43 mg 38 of the desired product as white solid MS ES m z 554.3 M 1 .

To a solution of 1R 2R Methyl 2 2 4 4 difluoropiperidin 1 yl 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 43 mg 0.078 mmol in THF 777 l MeOH 777 l was added 1 N NaOH 777 l 0.777 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 70 C. 4 for hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and quenched with 1N HCl. The resulting solution was diluted with EtOAc and water and mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude desired product as white solid that was used without further purification. MS ES m z 540.4 M 1 .

A vial was charged with 1R 2R 2 2 4 4 difluoropiperidin 1 yl 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 42.1 mg 0.078 mmol 1 aminocyclopropanecarbonitrile hydrochloride 23.12 mg 0.195 mmol DMF 780 l DIPEA 68.1 l 0.390 mmol and HATU 37.1 mg 0.098 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at 70 C. for 7 hours. Reaction mixture was cooled to RT and purified directly by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 10 95 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 29 mg 61.6 of 1R 2R N 1 Cyanocyclopropyl 2 2 4 4 difluoropiperidin 1 yl 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxamide Compound 6 as white solid MS ES m z 604.3 M 1 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 0.87 0.86 m 2 H 1.43 1.28 m 5 H 1.85 1.50 m 5 H 2.19 2.05 br m 4 H 2.58 td J 11.4 3.1 Hz 1 H 2.80 td J 11.3 3.2 Hz 1 H 3.13 3.11 m 4 H 3.62 3.58 m 2 H 3.74 3.69 m 2 H 3.91 3.89 m 4 H 5.83 s 1 H 6.91 d J 8.5 Hz 2 H 7.28 d J 8.4 Hz 2 H .

A vial was charged with 5 fluoronicotinamide 1008 mg 7.19 mmol Lawesson s reagent 1.48 g 3.67 mmol and DCE 2.88 mL . The resulting mixture was heated at 75 C. for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel with hexanes EtOAc 0 100 giving 550 mg 49 of 5 fluoropyridine 3 carbothioamide as yellow solid MS ES m z 157.2 M 1 .

To a solution of 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 2 chloroacetyl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate INTERMEDIATE 3 300 mg 0.966 mmol in dioxane 3.864 mL was added 5 fluoropyridine 3 carbothioamide 226 mg 1.449 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated in microwave at 200 C. for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to crude brown oil. The residue was purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 10 95 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 275 mg 84 of the desired product as brown oil. MS ES m z 339.2 M 1 .

To a solution of 1R 2R 5S Methyl 5 fluoro 2 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 275 mg 0.813 mmol in chloroform 4.1 mL was added Br 105 l 2.032 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 45 C. for 1 hour and then at 60 C. for overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and saturated aqueous NaSOwas added. The resulting mixture was stirred for 10 min diluted with DCM and water and extracted with DCM 3 30 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure giving crude desired product as off white solid which was used without further purification. MS ES m z 417.1 M 1 419.1 M 1 .

A vial was charged with 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 5 bromo 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 305 mg 0.731 mmol 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide 283 mg 0.841 mmol Pd OAc 8.21 mg 0.037 mmol triphenylphosphine 3 3 3 trisulfonic acid trisodium salt 62.3 mg 0.110 mmol DMF 2.2 mL water 731 l and DIPA 260 l 1.827 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at 80 C. for 45 min. The reaction mixture was cooled filtered through a syringe filter and purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 10 95 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 340 mg 85 of the desired product as yellow solid. MS ES m z 548.3 M 1 .

To a solution of 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 340 mg 0.621 mmol in THF 6.2 mL MeOH 6.2 mL was added 1 N NaOH 6.2 mL 6.21 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 60 C. for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and quenched with 1M HCl. The resulting solution was extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated giving crude desired product as yellow solid. The crude 1R 2R 5S 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylic acid was used without further purification. MS ES m z 534.3 M 1 .

A vial was charged with 1R 2R 5S 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylic acid 331 mg 0.621 mmol 1 aminocyclopropanecarbonitrile hydrochloride 184 mg 1.553 mmol DMF 1.553 mL and DIPEA 542 l 3.11 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 1 hour cooled to RT and purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 10 95 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 345 mg 93 of 1R 2R 5S N 1 cyanocyclopropyl 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxamide Compound 7 as yellow solid MS ES m z 598.2 M 1 H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 0.85 0.80 m 2 H 1.32 1.29 m 1 H 1.39 1.36 m 1 H 1.70 1.50 m 2 H 2.01 1.92 m 1 H 2.20 2.13 m 3 H 3.20 3.12 m 6 H 3.96 3.95 m 4 H 5.00 d J 47.7 Hz 1H 5.86 s 1H 6.98 d J 8.4 Hz 2 H 7.45 d J 8.4 Hz 2 H 7.98 d J 9.0 Hz 1 H 8.54 d J 2.7 Hz 1 H 8.98 s 1 H .

To a solution of 5 fluoropicolinic acid 500 mg 3.54 mmol in DCM 14 mL DMF 3.5 mL was added 1 hydroxy 7 azabenzotriazole HOAt 487 mg 3.58 mmol and EDC 713 mg 3.72 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at 23 for 10 min followed by the addition of ammonium hydroxide 641 l 4.61 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 23 C. for 16 hours. Saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution was added to the reaction and the resulting mixture was extracted with DCM 3 40 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with water brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated to give 275 mg of the crude desired product as pale yellow oil which was used without further purification MS ES m z 141.1 M 1 .

To a solution of 5 fluoropicolinamide 136 mg 0.971 mmol in DCE 1.94 mL was added Lawesson s reagent 200 mg 0.495 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 75 C. for 90 min. The solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure to give crude yellow solid. The residue was purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 5 75 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 122 mg 80 of the 5 fluoropyridine 2 carbothioamide as yellow solid MS ES m z 157.2 M 1 .

A microwave vial was charged with 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 2 chloroacetyl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate INTERMEDIATE 3 350 mg 1.127 mmol 5 fluoropyridine 2 carbothioamide 264 mg 1.691 mmol and dioxane 4.5 mL The resulting mixture was heated at 200 C. for 90 min in microwave concentrated to crude oil and the residue was purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 10 95 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 311 mg 82 of 1R 2R 5S methyl 5 fluoro 2 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as brown solid MS ES m z 339.2 M 1 .

To a solution of 1R 2R 5S methyl 5 fluoro 2 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 543 mg 1.605 mmol in CHCl 8 mL was added Br 207 l 4.01 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 45 C. for 16 hours. Very thick orange suspension was formed after 10 min at 45 C. Chloroform was added to aid stirring. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and saturated aqueous NaSOwas added to the reaction. The resulting mixture was stirred for 10 min diluted with DCM and water and extracted with DCM 3 30 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure giving crude 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 5 bromo 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl thiazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate as white solid MS ES m z 417.1 M 1 419.1 M 1 .

A vial was charged with 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 5 bromo 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl thiazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 714 mg 1.605 mmol 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide 650 mg 1.926 mmol Pd OAc 18.02 mg 0.080 mmol TPPTS 141 mg 0.241 mmol DMF 3.45 mL water 1.15 mL and DIPA 572 l 4.01 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at 80 C. for 60 min cooled to RT filtered through a 0.45 m syringe filter and purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 20 95 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 868 mg 99 of 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl thiazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate as yellow solid MS ES m z 548.3 M 1 .

To a solution of 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl thiazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 868 mg 1.585 mmol in THF 3.96 mL was added NaOH 3.96 mL 3.96 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 60 C. for 16 hours at 90 C. for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT quenched with slight excess of 1M HCl and diluted with EtOAc and water. The resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 40 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated giving crude 1R 2R 5S 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl thiazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylic acid as yellow solid. The material was used without further purification. MS ES m z 534.3 M 1 .

To a solution of 1R 2R 5S 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl thiazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylic acid 846 mg 1.585 mmol in DCM 8 mL was added DIPEA 332 l 1.903 mmol and 2 4 6 triisopropylbenzene 1 sulfonyl chloride 576 mg 1.903 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at RT for 15 min. S 2 Aminopropanenitrile hydrochloride 270 mg 2.54 mmol DIPEA 831 l 4.76 mmol and DMAP 38.7 mg 0.317 mmol were then added to the reaction mixture. The resulting yellow solution was stirred at RT for 30 min. Thick yellow suspension was crashed out during stirring. The reaction mixture was diluted with saturated aqueous NaHCOand DCM. Aqueous phase was extracted with DCM 2 50 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO brine dried MgSO filtered and solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure to give crude yellow solid. The residue was purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 10 95 NHOH 20 min giving 760 mg 82 of 1R 2R 5S N 1 cyanoethyl 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl thiazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxamide Compound 8 as yellow solid MS ES m z 586.3 M 1 H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 0.98 d J 7.1 Hz 3 H 170 1.51 m 2 H 2.20 1.91 m 3 H 2.26 t J 11.7 Hz 1 H 3.14 3.10 m 5 H 3.30 td J 11.9 3.2 Hz 1 H 3.94 3.91 m 4H 4.74 p J 7.6 Hz 1 H 5.02 d J 47.8 Hz 1 H 5.60 d J 8.6 Hz 1 H 6.97 d J 8.3 Hz 2 H 7.37 d J 8.3 Hz 2 H 7.58 td J 8.3 2.7 Hz 1 H 8.26 dd J 8.8 4.4 Hz 1 H 8.47 d J 2.7 Hz 1 H .

To a solution of 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 2 chloroacetyl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate INTERMEDIATE 3 250 mg 1.056 mmol in dioxane 3.5 mL was added ethanethioamide 95 mg 1.268 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 100 C. for 2.5 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 5 95 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 220 mg 81 of 1R 2R 5S methyl 5 fluoro 2 2 methylthiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as oil MS ES m z 258.2 M 1 .

To a solution of 1R 2R 5S methyl 5 fluoro 2 2 methylthiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 220 mg 0.855 mmol in chloroform 4.3 mL was added Br 110 l 2.137 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 45 C. for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and saturated aqueous NaSOwas added to the reaction. The resulting mixture was stirred for 15 min diluted with DCM and water and extracted with DCM 3 30 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure giving 271 mg 94 of crude 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 5 bromo 2 methylthiazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate as oil which was used without further purification. MS ES m z 336.2 M 338.2 M 1 .

A vial was charged with 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 5 bromo 2 methylthiazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 36 mg 0.107 mmol 4 morpholinophenyl boronic acid 33.3 mg 0.161 mmol Pd OAc 1.202 mg 5.35 mol tris 3 sulfonatophenyl phosphine 9.42 mg 0.016 mmol DMF 402 l water 134 l and DIPA 38.2 l 0.268 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at 80 C. for 1 hour cooled to RT filtered through a 0.45 m syringe filter and purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 10 95 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 35 mg 78 of 1R 2R 5S methyl 5 fluoro 2 2 methyl 5 4 morpholinophenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as oily white solid MS ES m z 419.3 M 1 .

To a solution of 1R 2R 5S methyl 5 fluoro 2 2 methyl 5 4 morpholinophenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 35 mg 0.084 mmol in MeOH 836 l THF 836 l was added 1 N NaOH 836 l 0.836 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 60 C. for 90 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT quenched with slight excess of 1M HCl and diluted with EtOAc and water. The resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated giving crude 1R 2R 5S 5 fluoro 2 2 methyl 5 4 morpholinophenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid as white solid which was used without further purification. MS ES m z 405.3 M 1 .

A vial was charged with 1R 2R 5S 5 fluoro 2 2 methyl 5 4 morpholinophenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 20 mg 0.049 mmol 1 aminocyclopropanecarbonitrile hydrochloride 14.66 mg 0.124 mmol DMF 247 DIPEA 43.2 l 0.247 mmol and HATU 23.50 mg 0.062 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 1 hour cooled to RT and purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 5 95 0.05 NHOH 20 min Rxn was cooled to rt and purified via reverse giving 14.4 mg 62 of 1R 2R 5S N 1 cyanocyclopropyl 5 fluoro 2 2 methyl 5 4 morpholinophenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxamide Compound 9 as white solid MS ES m z 469.3 M 1 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 0.81 0.74 m 2 H 1.52 1.28 m 3 H 1.58 1.54 m 1 H 2.19 1.84 m 4 H 2.69 s 3 H 2.98 td J 11.5 3.2 Hz 1 H 3.12 td J 11.8 3.4 Hz 1 H 3.22 3.20 m 4 H 3.88 3.86 m 4 H 4.95 d J 47.9 Hz 1 H 5.92 s 1 H 6.93 d J 8.6 Hz 2 H 7.28 d J 8.6 Hz 2 H .

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 chloroacetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate INTERMEDIATE 1 100 mg 0.457 mmol in dioxane 1524 l was added 4 fluorobenzamide 127 mg 0.915 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 200 C. for 48 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 15 95 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 16 mg 11.5 of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 4 fluorophenyl oxazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as white solid MS ES m z 304.3 M 1 .

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 4 fluorophenyl oxazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 16 mg 0.053 mmol in chloroform 264 l was added Br 6.79 l 0.132 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 45 C. for 45 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and saturated aqueous NaSOwas added to the reaction. The resulting mixture was stirred for 10 min diluted with DCM and water and extracted with DCM 3 10 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure giving 1R 2R methyl 2 5 bromo 2 4 fluorophenyl oxazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as crude oil which was used without further purification. MS ES m z 382.2 M 384.2 M 2 .

To a vial containing 1R 2R methyl 2 5 bromo 2 4 fluorophenyl oxazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 20.26 mg 0.053 mmol was added 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide 30 mg 0.089 mmol Pd OAc 1.190 mg 5.30 TPPTS 9.04 mg 0.016 mmol DMF 398 l Water 133 l and DIPEA 18.88 l 0.133 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at 80 C. for 3 hours cooled to RT filtered through a 0.45 m syringe filter and purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 25 95 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 21 mg 77 of 1R 2R methyl 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 4 fluorophenyl oxazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as yellow solid MS ES m z 513.4 M 1 

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 4 fluorophenyl oxazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 21 mg 0.041 mmol in THF 410 l MeOH 410 l was added 1 N NaOH 410 l 0.410 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 75 C. for 1 hour and then at 85 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT quenched with slight excess of 1M HCl and diluted with EtOAc and water. The resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated to give crude 1R 2R 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 4 fluorophenyl oxazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid as white solid that was used without further purification. MS ES m z 499.3 M 1 .

A vial was charged with 1R 2R 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 4 fluorophenyl oxazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 20.44 mg 0.041 mmol 1 aminocyclopropanecarbonitrile hydrochloride 12.15 mg 0.103 mmol DMF 410 l DIPEA 35.8 l 0.205 mmol and HATU 19.49 mg 0.051 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at 50 C. for 16 hours then cooled to RT and purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 15 95 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 13.8 mg 59.8 of 1R 2R N 1 cyanocyclopropyl 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 4 fluorophenyl oxazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxamide as orange solid MS ES m z 563.3 M 1 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 0.81 0.73 m 2 H 1.33 1.20 m 2 H 1.49 1.35 m 2 H 1.94 1.63 m 6 H 2.65 td J 11.4 3.3 Hz 1 H 3.07 td J 11.5 3.2 Hz 1 H 3.14 3.11 m 4 H 3.95 3.93 m 4H 5.97 s 1 H 6.99 d J 8.7 Hz 2 H 7.17 t J 8.6 Hz 2 H 7.60 d J 8.7 Hz 2 H 8.06 8.02 m 2 H .

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 chloroacetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate INTERMEDIATE 1 83 mg 0.380 mmol in dioxane 1.265 mL was added tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 carbothioamide 68.9 mg 0.474 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 100 C. for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 5 95 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 96 mg 82 of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate MS ES m z 310.3 M 1 .

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 96 mg 0.310 mmol in chloroform 1.55 mL was added Br 23.98 l 0.465 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 45 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and saturated aqueous NaSOwas added to the reaction. The resulting mixture was stirred for 30 min diluted with DCM and water and extracted with DCM 3 30 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure giving crude 1R 2R methyl 2 5 bromo 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as oil MS ES m z 388.2 M 390.2 M 2 .

A vial was charged with 1R 2R methyl 2 5 bromo 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 60.2 mg 0.155 mmol 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide 65.3 mg 0.194 mmol Pd OAc 1.740 mg 7.75 TPPTS 13.22 mg 0.023 mmol DMF 1163 l water 388 l and DIPEA 55.2 l 0.388 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at 80 C. for 30 min cooled to RT filtered through a 0.45 m syringe filter and purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 10 95 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 42 mg 52.2 of 1R 2R methyl 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as white solid MS ES m z 519.2 M 1 .

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 32 mg 0.062 mmol in MeOH 617 l THF 617 l was added 1 N NaOH 617 l 0.617 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 75 C. for 90 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT quenched with slight excess of 1M HCl and diluted with EtOAc and water. The resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL . Combined organic phases were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated to give crude 1R 2R 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid as white solid MS ES m z 505.4 M 1 .

To a stirring solution of 1R 2R 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 31.3 mg 0.062 mmol in DMF 620 l at RT was added 1 aminocyclopropanecarbonitrile hydrochloride 18.38 mg 0.155 mmol DIPEA 54.1 l 0.310 mmol and finally HATU 29.5 mg 0.078 mmol . Resulting mixture heated at 55 C. for over night then cooled to RT and purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC HO MeCN 5 95 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 13.2 mg 37.4 of 1R 2R N 1 cyanocyclopropyl 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxamide as white solid MS ES m z 569.4 M 1 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 0.90 0.80 m 2 H 1.44 1.27 m 4 H 2.02 1.68 m 8 H 2.06 2.02 m 2 H 2.68 td J 11.4 3.1 Hz 1 H 2.95 td J 11.4 3.1 Hz 1 H 3.13 t J 4.9 Hz 4 H 3.25 3.19 m 1 H 3.57 tt J 11.7 2.4 Hz 2 H 3.92 t J 4.9 Hz 4 H 4.11 dd J 11.6 3.9 Hz 2 H 5.76 s 1 H 6.94 d J 8.7 Hz 2 H 7.34 d J 8.7 Hz 2 H .

Racemic trans 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 4.3 g 23.09 mmol was dissolved in DCM 12 mL . Oxalyl chloride 2 M solution in DCM 29 mL 57.7 mmol was added followed by the addition of DMF 1 drop . The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 hours solvent was removed under reduced pressure and residue was dried under high vacuum for 1 h. The residue was redissolved in dioxane 40 mL . TMS diazomethane 28.9 mL 57.7 mmol was added to the solution and the resulting mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. and 2 M HCl solution in ether 57.7 mL 115 mmol was added via addition funnel. The reaction mixture was warmed to rt overnight. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude material was purified on ISCO 0 to 35 EtOAc hexanes 80 g ISCO giving 1 g 20 of methyl 2 2 chloroacetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate racemic as white solid.

Methyl 2 2 chloroacetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate racemic 300 mg 1.37 mmol and ethanethioamide 124 mg 1.65 mmol were mixed together dissolved in dioxane 3 mL the resulting mixture was stirred at 80 C. for 1 hour then reaction mixture was. transferred to a sealed tube and heated at 100 C. for overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt diluted with EtOAc washed with water brine dried NaSO filtered and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on ISCO 0 to 60 EtOAc hexanes 24 g ISCO silica gel column giving 150 mg 45.7 of methyl 2 2 methylthiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as a yellow oil.

Methyl 2 2 methylthiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 150 mg 0.627 mmol was dissolved in chloroform 3 mL followed by addition of NBS 335 mg 1.8 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at rt for overnight. The reaction mixture was purified directly by flash chromatography on silica gel ISCO column 0 to 35 EtOAc hexanes 40 g giving 125 mg 62.7 of methyl 2 5 bromo 2 methylthiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as a yellow oil.

Methyl 2 5 bromo 2 methylthiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 125 mg 0.393 mmol was dissolved in the solvent mixture THF 2 mL MeOH 2 mL followed by addition of aqueous 2.8 M NaOH solution 281 L 0.786 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at rt for 3 hours then was left at 40 C. for overnight. Another 2 equiv of 2.8 M NaOH 281 L 0.786 mmol were added to the reaction and the mixture was heated at 60 C. until complete hydrolysis of the methyl ester. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt and 2N HCl in ether was added until pH 3. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure then azeotroped with benzene. The residue was left under vacuum for 2 hours giving crude 2 5 bromo 2 methylthiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid that was used without further purification.

2 5 Bromo 2 methylthiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 119 mg 0.391 mmol HATU 149 mg 0.391 mmol N methylmorpholine 86 L 0.782 mmol and aminoacetonitrile 32.9 mg 0.587 mmol were mixed together in DMF 5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at 40 C. for overnight cooled to rt diluted with EtOAc washed with water 3 brine dried NaSO filtered and solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on ISCO silica gel column 0 to 70 EtOAc hexanes 24 g giving 112 mg 84 of 2 5 bromo 2 methylthiazol 4 yl N cyanomethyl cyclohexanecarboxamide as an off white solid.

2 5 Bromo 2 methylthiazol 4 yl N cyanomethyl cyclohexanecarboxamide 55 mg 0.161 mmol 4 morpholine 4 carbonyl phenyl boronic acid 56.7 mg 0.241 mmol 1 l bis di tert butylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 5.24 mg 8.03 mol 0.05 eq and NaCO 25.5 mg 0.241 mmol were mixed together and dissolved in dioxane 1 mL water 200 L solvent mixture. The resulting mixture was heated at 80 C. for 1 hour. Added extra catalyst and heated to 90 C. until most of the starting material was consumed. The reaction mixture was left at rt for overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc washed with water brine dried NaSO filtered and solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC Gilson 5 to 80 AcCN HO 0.1 TFA . Fractions containing product were quenched with saturated sodium bicarbonate and brine and extracted with CHClgiving 28 mg 38.5 of the racemic trans N cyanomethyl 2 2 methyl 5 4 morpholine 4 carbonyl phenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxamide. 24 mg of the compound were submitted for chiral separation ChiralTech IC 3 cm id by 25 cm length Modifier DEA 0.1 CO 60 EtOH 40 80 mL min giving 11 mg 47.8 98 ee of the desired 1R 2R N cyanomethyl 2 2 methyl 5 4 morpholine 4 carbonyl phenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxamide EXAMPLE 12 H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 1.39 1.30 m 2H 1.90 1.62 m 6 H 2.72 s 3 H 2.83 2.78 m 1 H 3.04 2.99 m 1 H 3.78 3.69 m 9H 4.16 dd J 17.51 7.25 Hz 1 H 5.69 5.68 m 1 H 7.48 7.44 m 4 H MS ES m z 453.2 M 1 . Plus 10 mg 43.5 of 1S 2S N cyanomethyl 2 2 methyl 5 4 morpholine 4 carbonyl phenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxamide compound 248 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 1.40 1.28 m 2 H 1.92 1.57 m 6 H 2.72 s 3 H 2.81 t J 11.57 Hz 1 H 3.02 t J 11.39 Hz 1 H 3.82 3.69 m 9 H 4.16 dd J 17.51 7.24 Hz 1H 5.71 bs 1 H 7.47 bs 4 H .

 1R 2R 5S Methyl 2 2 chloroacetyl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate INTERMEDIATE 3 525 mg 2.22 mmol and pivalamide were mixed 696 mg 6.88 mmol in anhydrous dioxane 5.5 mL and the resulting mixture was heated up at 160 C. in a pressure vial in an oil bath for 15 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and EtOAc 50 mL was added to the mixture. The resulting solution was washed with NaHCO 1 50 mL water 2 50 mL brine 1 50 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. After aqueous work up based on H NMR 25 30 conversion to the desired product. The residue was purified by reverse preparative HPLC Gilson water CHCN 20 95 0.1 TFA 20 min . Fractions with product were treated with NaHCO extracted with CHCl 3 20 mL washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure giving 120 mg 19 of 1R 2R 5S Methyl 2 2 tert butyl oxazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate as brown oil.

 1R 2R 5S Methyl 2 2 tert butyl oxazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 113 mg 0.4 mmol was dissolved in CHCl 4 mL and NBS 106 mg 1.5 eq. 0.6 mmol was added to the solution. The resulting mixture was stirred at RT for 15 min and heat up at 60 C. for 5 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and saturated NaHCO extracted with CHCl 3 10 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure The residue was purified by reverse preparative HPLC Gilson water CHCN 20 95 0.1 TFA 20 min . The fractions with the product were treated with aqueous NaHCO extracted with CHCl 4 20 mL . Combined organic fractions were washed with brine 50 mL dried MgSO filtered and solvent was removed under reduced pressure giving 86 mg 60 of 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 5 bromo 2 tert butyl oxazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate as thick clear oil that gets crystallized with time.

A vial was charged with 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 5 bromo 2 tert butyl oxazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 80 mg 0.221 mmol TPPTS 115 mg 0.202 mmol 2 2 2 trifluoro N 1 oxido 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl thiomorpholin 1 ylidene acetamide INTERMEDIATE 6 146 mg 0.338 mmol Pd OAc 16 mg 0.071 mmol DMF 1.1 mL water 370 l and DIPA 126 l 0.883 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at 80 C. for 1 h 30 min. KCO 61 mg 0.442 mmol was added to the reaction mixture to deprotect trifluoroacetyl group. The reaction mixture was heated at 60 C. for 30 min then left at RT over night. The reaction was filtered through syringe filter and purified via reverse phase preparative HPLC HO 10 85 MeCN 0.1 TFA 20 min giving 66 mg 60.8 of 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 2 tert butyl 5 4 1 imino 1 oxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate.

To a solution of 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 2 tert butyl 5 4 1 imino 1 oxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 66 mg 0.134 mmol in THF 1.3 ml MeOH 1.3 ml was added 1 N NaOH 2.69 mL 2.69 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated at 65 C. for 1 h 30 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and 1M HCl 2.7 mL was added to quench the reaction. The resulting mixture was diluted with EtOAc 10 mL and water 5 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL . The combined organic fractions were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered concentrated to give 60 mg 94 of 1R 2R 5S 2 2 tert butyl 5 4 1 imino 1 oxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylic acid as white solid that was used without further purification.

To a vial containing 1R 2R 5S 2 2 tert butyl 5 4 1 imino 1 oxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylic acid 12 mg 0.025 mmol was added 1 aminocyclopropanecarbonitrile hydrochloride 72.5 mg 0.611 mmol DIPEA 115 uL 0.696 mmol and HATU 13.4 mg 0.035 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at 65 C. for 4.5 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT. The crude mixture was purified directly via reverse phase preparative HPLC water 10 to 75 MeCN 0.1 TFA 15 min . Fractions with the desired product after HPLC were treated with saturated NaHCOand extracted with CHCl 3 10 mL then EtOAc washed with brine 30 mL dried MgSO and evaporated under reduced pressure giving 8.2 mg 60 of 2R 5S 2 2 tert butyl 5 4 1 imino 1 oxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 4 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxamide Compound 13 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 0.89 0.84 m 2H 0.98 0.93 m 1 H 1.33 1.28 m 1 H 1.41 1.39 m 1 H 1.43 s 9 H 2.07 1.92 m 3H 2.15 br t J 16.14 Hz 2 H 2.99 t J 11.59 Hz 1 H 3.17 3.13 m 5 H 3.94 3.86 m 4 H 5.00 d J 47.85 Hz 1 H 6.35 s 1 H 6.95 d J 8.51 Hz 2 H 7.46 d J 8.47 Hz 2 H MS ES m z 542.2 M 1 

The solution of Br 90 L 1.75 mmol in CHCl 2 mL was added to the solution of 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 2 tert butyl oxazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate from Step A EXAMPLE 13 165 mg 0.582 mmol in CHCl 2 mL at rt. The rxn was monitored by LCMS using quenched sample with NaSO. Bromination was stopped in 6 8 hours after addition of extra Br 90 L 1.75 mmol dissolved in CHCl 500 L in the middle of the run. The reaction was cooled in cold water quenched with NaSO stir for 10 min until solution turns clear and kept in a freezer for over weekend. The rxn mixture was extracted with CHCl 2 3 mL . The organic fractions were combined and washed with brine 1 3 mL dried MgSO filtered and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. Crude material was purified by reverse phase preparative HPLC Gilson water CH3CN 0.1 TFA 20 95 20 min . Desired fractions were treated with saturated NaHCOand extracted three times with CHCl. Combined organic phases were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and solvents was removed under reduced pressure giving 102 mg 48 of 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 5 bromo 2 tert butyl oxazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate.

A vial was charged with 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 5 bromo 2 tert butyl oxazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 65 mg 0.179 mmol TPPTS 122 mg 0.215 mmol 1 methylimino 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl thiomorpholine 1 oxide INTERMEDIATE 7 66 mg 0.188 mmol Pd OAc 16 mg 0.071 mmol DMF 1.1 mL water 370 l and DIPA 105 l 0.737 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at 80 C. for 1 h 30 min. The reaction was filtered through a syringe filter and purified via reverse phase preparative HPLC HO 20 95 MeCN 0.1 TFA 20 min . After preparative HPLC fractions with the product were treated with saturated NaHCOand extracted with CHCl 3 30 mL washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure giving 64.5 mg 71 of 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 2 tert butyl 5 4 1 methylimino 1 oxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate.

To a solution of 1R 2R 5S methyl 2 2 tert butyl 5 4 1 methylimino 1 oxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 64.5 mg 0.128 mmol in THF 0.5 ml MeOH 0.5 ml was added 1N NaOH 2.55 mL 2.55 mmol and the resulting mixture was heated to 65 C. for 2.5 hours. Cooled to rt added 1M HCl 2.55 mL to quench the reaction diluted with EtOAc 10 mL and water 5 mL extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL . Combined organic fractions were washed with brine dried MgSO filtered concentrated to crude 1R 2R 5S 2 2 tert butyl 5 4 1 methylimino 1 oxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylic acid as white solid. Used without further purification.

To a vial containing 1R 2R 5S 2 2 tert butyl 5 4 1 methylimino 1 oxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 4 yl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxylic acid 17 mg 0.035 mmol was added 1 aminocyclopropanecarbonitrile hydrochloride 21 mg 0.173 mmol DIPEA 75 uL 0.429 mmol and HATU 18.5 mg 0.048 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at 65 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT. The crude mixture was purified directly via reverse phase preparative HPLC water 5 to 85 MeCN 0.1 TFA 15 min . Fractions with the desired product after HPLC were treated with saturated NaHCOand extracted with CHCl 3 10 mL then EtOAc washed with brine 30 mL dried MgSO and evaporated under reduced pressure giving 16.3 mg 85 of 2R 5S 2 2 tert butyl 5 4 1 methylimino 1 oxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 4 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl 5 fluorocyclohexanecarboxamide Compound 14 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 0.88 0.85 m 1 H 0.97 0.92 m 1 H 1.33 1.25 m 2 H 1.40 1.38 m 1 H 1.42 s 9 H 1.68 1.56 m 2 H 2.07 1.92 m 2 H 2.18 2.12 m 2 H 2.85 s 3 H 2.99 t J 11.65 Hz 1 H 3.18 3.08 m 5 H 3.81 3.77 m 1 H 3.93 3.90 m 2 H 5.00 d J 47.87 Hz 1 H 6.39 s 1 H NH 6.94 d J 8.37 Hz 2 H 7.46 d J 8.35 Hz 2 H MS ES m z 556.5 M 1 .

tert Butyl 3 4 2 4 fluorophenyl 4 1R 2R 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexyl thiazol 5 yl phenyl azetidine 1 carboxylate was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step G of Example 2 using 1R 2R methyl 2 5 bromo 2 4 fluorophenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 0.200 g 0.502 mmol 1.00 equiv tert butyl 3 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl azetidine 1 carboxylate 0.269 g 0.753 mmol 1.50 equiv palladium II acetate 11.0 mg 0.0502 mmol 0.100 equiv TPPTS 56.8 mg 0.104 mmol 0.200 equiv and DIPA 0.126 g 1.26 mmol 2.50 equiv N N dimethylformamide 5 mL and water 5 mL . This resulted in 0.280 g crude of tert Butyl 3 4 2 4 fluorophenyl 4 1R 2R 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexyl thiazol 5 yl phenyl azetidine 1 carboxylate as a yellow oil MS ES m z 551.2 M 1 .

To the solution of tert butyl 3 4 2 4 fluorophenyl 4 1R 2R 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexyl thiazol 5 yl phenyl azetidine 1 carboxylate 0.160 g 0.290 mmol 1.00 equiv in dichloromethane 8 mL was added trifluoroacetic acid 2 mL . The resulting solution was stirred for 1 h at ambient temperature. The resulting solution was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by recrystallization with ethyl acetate and petroleum ether giving 0.125 g 95 of 3 4 2 4 fluorophenyl 4 1R 2R 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexyl thiazol 5 yl phenyl azetidin 1 ium 2 2 2 trifluoroacetate as an off white solid MS ES m z 451.2 M 1 .

To the solution of 3 4 2 4 fluorophenyl 4 1R 2R 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexyl thiazol 5 yl phenyl azetidin 1 ium 2 2 2 trifluoroacetate 50.0 mg 0.11 mmol 1.00 equiv in dichloromethane 2.5 mL was added triethylamine 44.8 mg 0.44 mmol 4.00 equiv and isopropyl carbonochloridate 27.2 mg 0.220 mmol 2.00 equiv . The reaction solution was stirred for 6 h at 30 C. The resulting solution was quenched with water 10 mL . The reaction mixture was extracted with dichloromethane 2 30 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 2 6 mL brine 6 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by Prep TLC with ethyl acetate petroleum ether giving 45.0 mg 73 of isopropyl 3 4 2 4 fluorophenyl 4 1R 2R 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexyl thiazol 5 yl phenyl azetidine 1 carboxylate as a white solid MS ES m z 537.2 M 1 .

 1R 2R 2 2 4 fluorophenyl 5 4 1 isopropoxycarbonyl azetidin 3 yl phenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step H of Example 2 using isopropyl 3 4 2 4 fluorophenyl 4 1R 2R 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexyl thiazol 5 yl phenyl azetidine 1 carboxylate 45.0 mg 0.083 mmol 1.00 equiv aqueous NaOH solution 0.4 mL 5.00 mol L methanol 1.5 mL and THF 1 mL . This resulted in 40.0 mg crude of 1R 2R 2 2 4 fluorophenyl 5 4 1 isopropoxycarbonyl azetidin 3 yl phenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid as a colorless oil MS ES m z 523.1 M 1 .

Isopropyl 3 4 4 1R 2R 2 1 cyanocyclopropyl carbamoyl cyclohexyl 2 4 fluorophenyl thiazol 5 yl phenyl azetidine 1 carboxylate was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step I of Example 2 using 1R 2R 2 2 4 fluorophenyl 5 4 1 isopropoxycarbonyl azetidin 3 yl phenyl thiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 40.0 mg 0.0800 mmol 1.00 equiv 1 aminocyclopropane 1 carbonitrile hydrochloride 67.6 mg 0.570 mmol 7.50 equiv N N diisopropylethylamine 0.118 g 0.910 mmol 12.00 equiv HATU 43.3 mg 0.110 mmol 1.50 equiv and DMF 0.5 mL . This resulted in 17.3 mg 38 of Isopropyl 3 4 4 1R 2R 2 1 cyanocyclopropyl carbamoyl cyclohexyl 2 4 fluorophenyl thiazol 5 yl phenyl azetidine 1 carboxylate compound 15 as a white solid H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 8.59 s 1H 8.03 dd J 8.8 5.6 Hz 2H 7.55 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.49 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.39 7.34 m 2H 4.81 4.78 m 1H 4.41 4.20 m 2H 4.00 3.85 m 3H 3.10 3.00 m 1H 2.85 2.75 m 1H 1.90 1.70 m 4H 1.69 1.55 m 1H 1.54 1.39 m 1H 1.38 1.25 m 4H 1.21 d J 6.4 Hz 6H 0.70 0.60 m 1H 0.45 0.35 m 1H MS ES m z 587.2 M 1 .

To the solution of phenol 2.00 g 21.27 mmol 1.00 equiv in diethyl ether 30 mL was added triethylamine 2.22 mL 15.95 mmol 0.75 equiv followed by dropwise addition of the solution of bromine cyanide 1.51 g 14.25 mmol 0.67 equiv in diethyl ether 30 mL at 5 C. The resulting mixture was stirred for 1.5 h at 5 C. The solid was filtered out. The filtrate was stirred under hydrogensulfide stream at ambient temperature for 3 h. The resulting solution was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was recrystallized using dichloromethane 3.0 mL giving 1.00 g 31 of o phenyl carbamothioate as a colorless solid MS ES m z 154.2 M 1 .

 1R 2R Methyl 2 2 phenoxythiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step D of Example 2 using 1R 2R methyl 2 2 chloroacetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate INTERMEDIATE 1 0.14 g 0.64 mmol 1.00 equiv o phenyl carbamothioate 0.15 g 0.98 mmol 1.54 equiv and dioxane 2 mL . This resulted in 0.16 g 78 of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 phenoxythiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as a colorless solid MS ES m z 318.1 M 1 .

 1R 2R Methyl 2 5 bromo 2 phenoxythiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step F of Example 2 using 1R 2R methyl 2 2 phenoxythiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 0.10 g 0.32 mmol 1.00 equiv N bromosuccinimide 56.0 mg 0.32 mmol 1.00 equiv and chloroform 3 mL . This resulted in 0.10 g 80 of 1R 2R methyl 2 5 bromo 2 phenoxythiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as a yellow oil MS ES m z 396.0 M 1 398.0 M 1 .

 1R 2R Methyl 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 phenoxythiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step G of Example 2 using 1R 2R methyl 2 5 bromo 2 phenoxythiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 0.15 g 0.37 mmol 1.00 equiv 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide 0.19 g 0.56 mmol 1.50 equiv cesium carbonate 0.36 g 1.11 mmol 3.00 equiv tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 85.5 mg 74.0 mol 0.20 equiv N N dimethylformamide 2 mL and water 0.2 mL . This resulted in 0.18 g 92 of 1R 2R methyl 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 phenoxythiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as a light yellow oil MS ES m z 527.2 M 1 .

 1R 2R 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 phenoxythiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step H of Example 2 using methyl 1R 2R methyl 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 phenoxythiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 0.10 g 0.19 mmol 1.00 equiv aqueous lithium hydroxide 4.00 M 5.00 mL 20.0 mmol 105 equiv tetrahydrofuran 2 mL and methanol 3 mL . This resulted in 90.0 mg crude of 1R 2R 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 phenoxythiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid as a light yellow solid MS ES m z 513.1 M 1 .

 1R 2R N 1 cyanocyclopropyl 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 phenoxythiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxamide was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step I of Example 2 using 1R 2R 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 phenoxythiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 60.0 mg 0.12 mmol 1.00 equiv 1 aminocyclopropanecarbonitrile hydrochloride 85.0 mg 0.72 mmol 6.00 equiv DIPEA 0.16 g 1.24 mmol 10.00 equiv HATU 91.3 mg 0.24 mmol 2.00 equiv and DMF 0.5 mL . This resulted in 27.7 mg 41 of 1R 2R N 1 cyanocyclopropyl 2 5 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 phenoxythiazol 4 yl cyclohexanecarboxamide as a colorless solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 7.52 7.41 m 2H 7.40 7.29 m 5H 7.00 6.89 m 2H 6.21 6.04 br 1H 4.00 3.84 m 4H 3.21 3.02 m 4H 3.01 2.90 m 1H 2.76 2.59 m 1H 1.90 1.27 m 10H 1.14 0.92 m 2H MS ES m z 577.3 M 1 .

The following compounds were prepared using methods analogous to those described in the preceding examples 

As a specific embodiment of this invention 100 mg of a compound of Example 1 is formulated with sufficient finely divided lactose to provide a total amount of 580 to 590 mg to fill a size 0 hard gelatin capsule.

