---

title: Cable reader labeling
abstract: Various systems and methods are provided that allow reviewers to properly and timely label communications and easily view such communications. Certain systems and methods organize one or more communications in a tile layout so that reviewers can properly and timely label communications. A reviewer can hover over any of the communications to view more details regarding the communication and/or label the communication. For example, while the cursor is placed over the displayed communication, the reviewer can provide a command, such as a key command. Once the command is provided, the displayed communication is labeled with a label associated with the command.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565152&OS=09565152&RS=09565152
owner: Palantir Technologies Inc.
number: 09565152
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140715
---
This application claims a priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 863 792 filed on Aug. 8 2013 and titled CABLE READER LABELING which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to systems and techniques for data integration analysis and visualization.

Commercial entities law firms government entities and others gather and process an enormous amount of information. Some of the information gathered and processed is in the form of electronic messages or other such communications. These communications are generated by employees contractors or clients and are sent to reviewers e.g. analysts other employees other contractors other clients etc. for review. Often reviewers review communications related to a common topic or region.

However because of the enormous amount of information gathered and processed it can be difficult for reviewers to identify communications that are related to the topic or region that the reviewers are analyzing. While some communications may include benign information e.g. hours that government offices are expected to be open other communications may include information that is vital for successfully pursuing business opportunities proving innocence or guilt or the like. Thus communications that are misidentified or that are unidentified can have serious repercussions.

The systems methods and devices described herein each have several aspects no single one of which is solely responsible for its desirable attributes. Without limiting the scope of this disclosure several non limiting features will now be discussed briefly.

A message reader system is disclosed herein that allows reviewers to properly and timely label communications and easily view such communications. The message reader system may organize one or more communications in a tile layout so that reviewers can properly and timely label communications.

In one embodiment a reviewer can hover over any of the communications to view more details regarding the communication and or label the communication. For example the reviewer can move a cursor such as a mouse pointer or a finger over a displayed communication. The size of the displayed communication may expand while the cursor is placed over the displayed communication so that the reviewer can view a larger portion or the entire content of the displayed communication. As another example while the cursor is placed over the displayed communication the reviewer can provide a command such as selection of a keyboard button a gesture a voice command a mouse input another keyboard input and or the like. Once the command is provided the displayed communication is labeled with a label associated with the command. Thus the message reader system advantageously enables communications to be easily viewable and labeled quickly via the movement of a cursor and the selection of a command.

One aspect of the disclosure provides a computing system configured to display a large amount of dynamically updating data. In this embodiment the computing system comprises a network interface that is coupled to a data network for receiving and transmitting one or more packet flows. The computing system further comprises a computer processor. The computing system further comprises a computer readable storage medium storing program instructions configured for execution by the computer processor in order to cause the computing system to access a plurality of confidential messages display the plurality of confidential messages in a tile layout in a first view wherein each confidential message is displayed in a separate tile receive a first selection of a first tile in the tile layout in response to a user placing a cursor over the first tile where the first tile displays a first confidential message receive a second selection of a label in response to the user selecting a key command while the cursor is placed over the first tile update a message association data structure to indicate a link between the label and the first confidential message in response to receiving the second selection and update display of the first tile to include the first confidential message and an indication of the selected label.

The computing system of the preceding paragraph can have any sub combination of the following features where the one or more stored program instructions further cause the processor to receive a third selection of a second label in response to the user selecting a second key command while the cursor is placed over the first tile update the message association data structure to indicate a link between the second label and the first confidential message in response to receiving the third selection and update display of the first tile to include the first confidential message and an indication of the second label where the label is associated with a category and wherein the second label is associated with a sub category of the category where the one or more stored program instructions further cause the processor to display in the first view a count of a number of confidential messages associated with the label and updating the count in response to the update of the message association data structure where the one or more stored program instructions further cause the processor to display an expanded view of the first tile in the first view in response to the user selecting the first tile where the one or more stored program instructions further cause the processor to display one or more labels in a second view receive a third selection of a second label in the one or more labels in the second view and display one or more confidential messages associated with the second label in the tile layout and where the cursor comprises at least one of a mouse pointer or a finger of the user.

Another aspect of the disclosure provides a computer implemented method of displaying a large amount of dynamically updating data. In this embodiment the computer implemented method comprises as implemented by one or more computer systems comprising computer hardware and memory the one or more computer systems configured with specific executable instructions accessing a plurality of messages displaying the plurality of messages in a tile layout in a first view wherein each message is displayed in a separate tile receiving a first selection of a first tile in the tile layout in response to a user placing a cursor over the first tile wherein the first tile displays a first message receiving a second selection of a label in response to the user selecting a key command while the cursor is placed over the first tile updating a message association data structure to indicate a link between the label and the first message in response to receiving the second selection and updating display of the first tile to include the first message and an indication of the selected label.

The computer implemented method of the preceding paragraph can have any sub combination of the following features where the computer implemented method further comprises receiving a third selection of a second label in response to the user selecting a second key command while the cursor is placed over the first tile updating the message association data structure to indicate a link between the second label and the first message in response to receiving the third selection and updating display of the first tile to include the first message and an indication of the second label where the label is associated with a category and wherein the second label is associated with a sub category of the category where the computer implemented method further comprises displaying in the first view a count of a number of messages associated with the label and updating the count in response to the update of the message association data structure where the computer implemented method further comprises displaying an expanded view of the first tile in the first view in response to the user selecting the first tile and where the computer implemented method further comprises displaying one or more labels in a second view receiving a third selection of a second label in the one or more labels in the second view and displaying one or more messages associated with the second label in the tile layout.

Another aspect of the disclosure provides a non transitory computer readable medium comprising one or more program instructions recorded thereon the instructions configured for execution by a computing system comprising one or more processors in order to cause the computing system to access a plurality of messages display the plurality of messages in a tile layout in a first view wherein each message is displayed in a separate tile receive a first selection of a first tile in the tile layout in response to a user placing a cursor over the first tile wherein the first tile displays a first message receive a second selection of a label in response to the user providing a command while the cursor is placed over the first tile update a message association data structure to indicate a link between the label and the first message in response to receiving the second selection and update display of the first tile to include the first message and an indication of the selected label.

The non transitory computer readable medium of the preceding paragraph can have any sub combination of the following features where the instructions are further configured to cause the computing system to receive a third selection of a second label in response to the user selecting a second command while the cursor is placed over the first tile update the message association data structure to indicate a link between the second label and the first message in response to receiving the third selection and update display of the first tile to include the first message and an indication of the second label where the label is associated with a category and wherein the second label is associated with a sub category of the category where the instructions are further configured to cause the computing system to display in the first view a count of a number of messages associated with the label and update the count in response to the update of the message association data structure where the instructions are further configured to cause the computing system to display an expanded view of the first tile in the first view in response to the user selecting the first tile where the instructions are further configured to cause the computing system to display one or more labels in a second view receive a third selection of a second label in the one or more labels in the second view and display one or more messages associated with the second label in the tile layout and where the command comprises at least one a gesture a voice command a mouse input or a keyboard input.

Disclosed herein are various systems and methods that allow reviewers to properly and timely label communications and easily view such communications. Certain systems and methods described herein organize one or more communications in a tile layout so that reviewers can properly and timely label communications. A reviewer can hover over any of the communications to view more details regarding the communication and or label the communication. For example the reviewer can move a cursor such as a mouse pointer or a finger over a displayed communication. In some embodiments the size of the displayed communication expands while the cursor is placed over the displayed communication so that the reviewer can view a larger portion or the entire content of the displayed communication. In addition while the cursor is placed over the displayed communication the reviewer can provide a command e.g. selection of a keyboard button a gesture a voice command a mouse input another keyboard input etc. . Once the command is provided the displayed communication is labeled with a label associated with the command. In this way communications are easily viewable and can be labeled quickly via the movement of a cursor and the selection of a command.

In the embodiment illustrated in the one or more companies which may be implemented by one or more first physical computing devices are communicatively connected to message data server which may be implemented by one or more second physical computing devices over the network . Similarly the reviewer device may be implemented by one or more third physical computing devices and may be communicatively connected to the message data server over the network . In some embodiments each such physical computing device may be implemented as a computer system including some or all of the components illustrated in the example computing system of . For example the one or more companies and or the reviewer device may be implemented in a computer system as a set of program instructions recorded on a machine readable storage medium.

The one or more companies represent devices operated by employees contractors or other personnel associated with a commercial entity a law firm a government entity and or the like. The employees contractors or other personnel associated with a commercial entity a law firm a government entity and or the like may draft messages e.g. electronic messages confidential government cables etc. to communicate a field update gathered information a news report and or the like. These messages may be transmitted to the message data server for storage.

The reviewer device represents a device operated by a reviewer that reviews and or analyzes messages received from the message data server . Depending on the embodiment the reviewer may be a salesperson administrator executive analyst or other representative of a commercial or governmental entity. The reviewer device comprises a message viewer . The message viewer allows the reviewer to view and or manipulate one or more messages via a graphical user interface GUI . For example the message viewer may include GUI logic. The GUI logic may be a set of program instructions configured for execution by one or more computer processors of the reviewer device which are operable to receive user input and to display a graphical representation of the messages using the approaches described herein. The GUI logic may be operable to receive user input from and display a graphical representation of the messages to a GUI that is provided on a display not shown by the computer system on which the reviewer device executes.

In some embodiments the GUI logic is omitted. For example in one embodiment the reviewer device and specifically the message viewer may comprise an application program or process that issues one or more function calls or application programming interface API calls to the message data server to obtain information resulting from to provide input to and to execute along with the message data server the processes or one or more steps thereof as described herein. For example the reviewer device may request messages using a programmatic interface and then the reviewer using the reviewer device may use process log store label and or otherwise interact with the messages according to local logic. The reviewer device may also interact with the message data server to provide input labeling instructions and or other data as described herein using a programmatic interface and then the message data server may use process log store label and or otherwise interact with the messages according to the message data server logic.

The message data server may be implemented as a special purpose computer system having logical elements. In an embodiment the logical elements may comprise program instructions recorded on one or more machine readable storage media. Alternatively the logical elements may be implemented in hardware firmware or a combination thereof.

When executed by one or more processors of the computer system logic in the message data server is operable to analyze and or label the messages according to the techniques described herein. In one embodiment the message data server may be implemented in a Java Virtual Machine JVM that is executing in a distributed or non distributed computer system. In other embodiments the message data server may be implemented as a combination of programming instructions written in any programming language e.g. C or Visual Basic and hardware components e.g. memory CPU time that have been allocated for executing the program instructions.

In an embodiment the network includes any communications network such as the Internet. The network may be a wired network a wireless network or a combination of the two. For example network may be a local area network LAN and or a wireless area network WAN .

The confidential messages may be received from the message data server . In some embodiments a portion of the content of each confidential message e.g. a title an excerpt of the body of the message a document or message identification code etc. is displayed in the tile layout . To view the entire content of a confidential message the reviewer can click a mouse button while hovering over the confidential message or tap with a finger while hovering over the confidential message . While the confidential messages are illustrated in as being displayed in a rectangular format and in a tile layout this is not meant to be limiting. The confidential messages or a portion thereof may be displayed in any shape and in any format in the user interface . For example the confidential messages may be displayed in list form e.g. each confidential message occupies at least one horizontal line in the user interface rather than in a tile layout.

In an embodiment the user interface further displays one or more labels in a label window . The labels represent categories and or sub categories that can be applied to a confidential message. The labels may be associated with a count e.g. a number of confidential messages that fall within the category represented by the label and an identification number or code. For example the labels in the label window include Bosnia with a count of 96 and an identification number of 1 Somalia with a count of 243 and an identification number of 2 Pakistan with a count of 312 and an identification number of 3 Iran with a count of 291 and an identification number of 4 Iraq with a count of 155 and an identification number of 5 and Syria with a count of 349 and an identification number of 6 .

As described and illustrated below once a confidential message is labeled the label and or the identification number or code of the label is displayed with the confidential message. To view one or more confidential messages that are associated with a particular the label the reviewer can click on the title count and or identification number of code of the label in the label window .

In an embodiment when a reviewer moves the cursor over a confidential message e.g. when the cursor hovers over a confidential message the confidential message is highlighted and or otherwise changes appearances to provide feedback that the confidential message is selected. In the example of the cursor is located over the confidential message . The border of the confidential message is bolded to provide feedback that the confidential message is selected.

Once a confidential message is selected e.g. by hovering over the confidential message the reviewer can perform an operation. For example the reviewer can label the confidential message with one or more of the labels listed in the label window .

As illustrated in the label Bosnia may be applied to the confidential message when a keyboard button associated with the subject or title e.g. Bosnia of the label such as b key of a keyboard of the reviewer device is pressed while the cursor is hovering over the confidential message . As illustrated in the label Bosnia may be applied to the confidential message when a keyboard button associated with the identification number or code e.g. 1 of the label such as 1 key of the keyboard of the reviewer device is pressed while the cursor is hovering over the confidential message . The keyboard can be a physical keyboard or a virtual keyboard that appears in a display such as a touchscreen display.

In other embodiments not shown additional labels can be applied to a confidential message when a second key command associated with the particular label is selected while the cursor is hovering over the confidential message . For example a first key command such as the selection of key applies a first label to a confidential message . After the first label is applied the reviewer can provide a second key command to apply a second label to the confidential message . The second label may be a sub label of the first label e.g. a sub category of the category represented by the first label or a label of a different family than the first label. In this manner the reviewer can select one or more of many labels for assignment to a particular message and assign those labels with minimal interactions such as a mouse over e.g. without clicking on the messages and pressing of a keyboard key.

While illustrate the selection of a key command to label a confidential message the use of a key command is not meant to be limiting. A confidential message can be labeled when any command is provided while the cursor is hovering over the confidential message . For example a gesture a voice command a mouse input and or another keyboard input can be used to label the confidential message while the cursor is hovering over the confidential message

In some embodiments the cursor used to hover over a confidential message is a mouse pointer. However in other embodiments the cursor used to hover over a confidential message can be a finger of a user or reviewer.

As described above a confidential message can change its appearance to provide feedback to the reviewer that the confidential message is selected. illustrates another user interface of the message reader system in which the confidential message is selected by hovering with the cursor . Any discussion herein of the cursor can be a mouse pointer the finger of a reviewer a stylus and or any other object capable of providing input. The cursor can be used to select a confidential message in any manner as described above with respect to the mouse pointer or the finger . Unlike the confidential message as illustrated in the confidential message as illustrated in includes a bolded border and a larger size to provide feedback that the confidential message is selected.

A confidential message that is selected such as the confidential message may overlap and hide portions of nearby confidential messages in the tile layout . In some embodiments the larger size of the confidential message allows the reviewer to view a larger portion of the content of the confidential message . In this way the reviewer can view more information to aid in determining how to label the confidential message without having to perform the extra step of clicking on the confidential message e.g. the reviewer merely has to hover over the confidential message to view more information .

In some embodiments the larger size of the confidential message allows the reviewer to view a larger portion of the content of the confidential message . In this way the reviewer can view more information to aid in determining how to label the confidential message without having to perform the extra step of clicking on the confidential message e.g. the reviewer merely has to hover over the confidential message to view more information . In one embodiment another confidential message may be selected to fill the tile layout portion in place of the message illustrated in by moving the cursor over the area associated with another message even though the tiles are covered not shown in the embodiment of . For example the cursor may be moved over the area associated with a message adjacent to the currently selected tile of message such as over the area of adjacent tiles and

In other embodiments the subject or title associated with a label is displayed in conjunction with a confidential message . As illustrated in the confidential message is labeled with label . In an embodiment label includes the subject or title of the label applied to the confidential message . For example label includes the name Bosnia which is the subject or title associated with the label Bosnia. 

In still other embodiments not shown the label displayed in conjunction with the confidential message can include any information that can be used to identify which label in the label window is associated with the particular confidential message 

Once a confidential message such as the confidential message is labeled the count associated with the label is incremented by one. For example count which is associated with the label Bosnia is incremented from 96 to 97 once confidential message is labeled. In some embodiments the count is highlighted or otherwise changes appearances to provide feedback to the reviewer that the count has increased.

In some embodiments the label window expands when a reviewer clicks or otherwise selects the label window . The expanded label window may overlap at least a portion of the panes and or and or the tile layout not shown . Any of the labels or sub labels can be selected by the reviewer. Selection of a label or sub label causes the message viewer to retrieve and display confidential messages associated with the selected label or sub label in the pane the pane and or the tile layout not shown .

In block the message reader system accesses a plurality of confidential messages. For example the confidential messages may be accessed from the message data server and provided to the reviewer device .

In block at least some of the plurality of confidential messages are displayed on the reviewer device in a tile layout in a first view. In an embodiment each confidential message is displayed in a separate tile. In other embodiments not shown the plurality of confidential messages are displayed in a list form in the first view.

In block the reviewer device receives a first selection of a first tile in the tile layout in response to a user placing a cursor over the first tile. In an embodiment the cursor is a mouse pointer. In another embodiment the cursor is a finger of the user. The first tile may display a first confidential message.

In block the reviewer device receives a second selection of a label in response to the user selecting a key command while the cursor is placed over the first tile. The key command can be selected via the use of a physical or virtual keyboard. In other embodiments not shown the reviewer device receives the second selection of the label in response to the user selecting another command such as a gesture a voice command a mouse input and or another keyboard input while the cursor is placed over the first tile.

In block the reviewer device and or message data server updates a message association data structure to indicate a link between the label and the first confidential message in response to receiving the second selection.

In block the reviewer device updates display of the first tile to include the first confidential message and the label and or an updated count associated with the label. The label may include the subject or title of the label or the identification number or code associated with the label.

As described above a confidential message is a type of message. Any discussion herein of a confidential message can apply to any other type of message such as a confidential government cable. For example other messages can be confidential or non confidential and can include electronic messages e.g. emails text messages instant messages voicemails reminders or alerts etc. presentations news articles reports letters and or any other type of communication that includes content.

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems server computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device or combination of devices that incorporate hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

Computing device s are generally controlled and coordinated by operating system software such as iOS Android Chrome OS Windows XP Windows Vista Windows 7 Windows 8 Windows Server Windows CE Unix Linux SunOS Solaris iOS Blackberry OS VxWorks or other compatible operating systems. In other embodiments the computing device may be controlled by a proprietary operating system. Conventional operating systems control and schedule computer processes for execution perform memory management provide file system networking I O services and provide a user interface functionality such as a graphical user interface GUI among other things.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment may be implemented. For example any of the computing devices discussed herein such as the reviewer device the message data server and the companies which may be government entities in some embodiments may include some or all of the components and or functionality of the computer system .

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor or multiple processors coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor s may be for example one or more general purpose microprocessors.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM cache and or other dynamic storage devices coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or USB thumb drive Flash drive etc. is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT or LCD display or touch screen for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane. In some embodiments the same direction information and command selections as cursor control may be implemented via receiving touches on a touch screen without a cursor.

Computing system may include a user interface module to implement a GUI that may be stored in a mass storage device as executable software codes that are executed by the computing device s . This and other modules may include by way of example components such as software components object oriented software components class components and task components processes functions attributes procedures subroutines segments of program code drivers firmware microcode circuitry data databases data structures tables arrays and variables.

In general the word module as used herein refers to logic embodied in hardware or firmware or to a collection of software instructions possibly having entry and exit points written in a programming language such as for example Java Lua C or C . A software module may be compiled and linked into an executable program installed in a dynamic link library or may be written in an interpreted programming language such as for example BASIC Perl or Python. It will be appreciated that software modules may be callable from other modules or from themselves and or may be invoked in response to detected events or interrupts. Software modules configured for execution on computing devices may be provided on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc digital video disc flash drive magnetic disc or any other tangible medium or as a digital download and may be originally stored in a compressed or installable format that requires installation decompression or decryption prior to execution . Such software code may be stored partially or fully on a memory device of the executing computing device for execution by the computing device. Software instructions may be embedded in firmware such as an EPROM. It will be further appreciated that hardware modules may be comprised of connected logic units such as gates and flip flops and or may be comprised of programmable units such as programmable gate arrays or processors. The modules or computing device functionality described herein are preferably implemented as software modules but may be represented in hardware or firmware. Generally the modules described herein refer to logical modules that may be combined with other modules or divided into sub modules despite their physical organization or storage

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor s executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor s to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term non transitory media and similar terms as used herein refers to any media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operate in a specific fashion. Such non transitory media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of non transitory media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge and networked versions of the same.

Non transitory media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between nontransitory media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may retrieve and execute the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN or WAN component to communicated with a WAN . Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

To provide a framework for the above discussion of the specific systems and methods described herein an example database system using an ontology will now be described. This description is provided for the purpose of providing an example and is not intended to limit the techniques to the example data model the example database system or the example database system s use of an ontology to represent information.

In one embodiment a body of data is conceptually structured according to an object centric data model represented by an ontology. The conceptual data model is independent of any particular database used for durably storing one or more database s based on the ontology. For example each object of the conceptual data model may correspond to one or more rows in a relational database or an entry in Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP database or any combination of one or more databases.

An ontology as noted above may include stored information providing a data model for storage of data in a database. The ontology may be defined by one or more object types which may each be associated with one or more property types. At the highest level of abstraction data object is a container for information representing things in the world. For example data object can represent an entity such as a person a place an organization or other noun. Data object can represent an event that happens at a point in time or for a duration. Data object can represent a document or other unstructured data source such as an e mail message a news report or a written paper or article. Each data object is associated with a unique identifier that uniquely identifies the data object within the database system.

Different types of data objects may have different property types. For example a Person data object might have an Eye Color property type and an Event data object might have a Date property type. Each property as represented by data in the database system may have a property type defined by the ontology used by the database.

Objects may be instantiated in the database in accordance with the corresponding object definition for the particular object in the ontology.

The data objects defined in the ontology may support property multiplicity. In particular a data object may be allowed to have more than one property of the same property type. For example a Person data object might have multiple Address properties or multiple Name properties.

Each link represents a connection between two data objects. In one embodiment the connection is either through a relationship an event or through matching properties. A relationship connection may be asymmetrical or symmetrical. For example Person data object A may be connected to Person data object B by a Child Of relationship where Person data object B has an asymmetric Parent Of relationship to Person data object A a Kin Of symmetric relationship to Person data object C and an asymmetric Member Of relationship to Organization data object X. The type of relationship between two data objects may vary depending on the types of the data objects. For example Person data object A may have an Appears In relationship with Document data object Y or have a Participate In relationship with Event data object E. As an example of an event connection two Person data objects may be connected by an Airline Flight data object representing a particular airline flight if they traveled together on that flight or by a Meeting data object representing a particular meeting if they both attended that meeting. In one embodiment when two data objects are connected by an event they are also connected by relationships in which each data object has a specific relationship to the event such as for example an Appears In relationship.

As an example of a matching properties connection two Person data objects representing a brother and a sister may both have an Address property that indicates where they live. If the brother and the sister live in the same home then their Address properties likely contain similar if not identical property values. In one embodiment a link between two data objects may be established based on similar or matching properties e.g. property types and or property values of the data objects. These are just some examples of the types of connections that may be represented by a link and other types of connections may be represented embodiments are not limited to any particular types of connections between data objects. For example a document might contain references to two different objects. For example a document may contain a reference to a payment one object and a person a second object . A link between these two objects may represent a connection between these two entities through their co occurrence within the same document.

Each data object can have multiple links with another data object to form a link set. For example two Person data objects representing a husband and a wife could be linked through a Spouse Of relationship a matching Address property and one or more matching Event properties e.g. a wedding . Each link as represented by data in a database may have a link type defined by the database ontology used by the database.

Each of the processes methods and algorithms described in the preceding sections may be embodied in and fully or partially automated by code modules executed by one or more computer systems or computer processors comprising computer hardware. The processes and algorithms may be implemented partially or wholly in application specific circuitry.

The various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in various ways. All possible combinations and subcombinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain method or process blocks may be omitted in some implementations. The methods and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described blocks or states may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple blocks or states may be combined in a single block or state. The example blocks or states may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Blocks or states may be added to or removed from the disclosed example embodiments. The example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed example embodiments.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure. The foregoing description details certain embodiments of the invention. It will be appreciated however that no matter how detailed the foregoing appears in text the invention can be practiced in many ways. As is also stated above it should be noted that the use of particular terminology when describing certain features or aspects of the invention should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being re defined herein to be restricted to including any specific characteristics of the features or aspects of the invention with which that terminology is associated. The scope of the invention should therefore be construed in accordance with the appended claims and any equivalents thereof.

