---

title: Device charging system
abstract: A computing device monitors the energy level of a rechargeable battery, from which the device draws operating power. Historic usage data is used to estimate the time remaining in a present operating period, such as a workday, as well as to estimate the battery level required to provide power during that period of time. A user is then presented with information regarding the status of the battery, as well as charging time and required battery level estimates. Information regarding charging stations within publically or otherwise user-accessible venues near to the present location of the computing device is accessed and presented to the user. Reservations may be made for a charging port within a selected venue, an order may be placed for goods or services available at that venue, or other actions may be performed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09442548&OS=09442548&RS=09442548
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09442548
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140318
---
Portable computing devices often operate by way of rechargeable batteries. Loss of operating time resulting from the need to recharge such batteries is a concern for numerous users.

Certain implementations and embodiments will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying figures in which various aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

People use a wide variety of portable computing devices for a vast number of purposes. Tablet computers smart phones electronic book or e book readers media devices wearable computers laptop computers and so forth are a few non limiting examples. Often such a computing device is operated for some number of hours as part of a daily routine and then connected so as to recharge a battery or batteries at night or during another inactive period.

Sometimes a user operates a computing device for longer than a normal period of time or such operations are intensified due to additional computational tasks an increased volume of electronic communications or other activities. The result may be insufficient power remaining in the rechargeable battery or batteries to get through the present workday or other situation without taking time to recharge. This problem may be remedied if the required charging equipment and a source of electrical energy are at hand. However a user may wind up with insufficient battery power while away from their home or office and the needed charging facilities. Such a circumstance may occur in a public place like a downtown area airport or other transportation hub while aboard an aircraft or mass transit vehicle and so on.

Charging station access as well as related items or services are being increasingly offered in public or other venues owing to the popularity of such portable computing devices. Coffee shops airports transit terminals public libraries and the like often offer the use of charging ports cable assemblies or other accessories as well as access to electrical energy so as to charge a computing device. Numerous such venues may be located within relatively close proximity to each other such that a user in need of charging a computing device may have more than one option to select from. Nonetheless if a user has no knowledge of which nearby venues offer such charging facilities and which do not considerable time may be wasted searching in vain time that the user may not have to spare under the present circumstances.

In one example a user of a tablet computer is visiting an unfamiliar city during business travel. The user has four hours remaining in their workday but the rechargeable battery within their tablet computer is at 15 of capacity approximately enough energy for just over one hour of normal operation. An application running in the background on their tablet computer uses historical usage data to determine that about three more hours of battery life are likely to be required in addition to the one hour that is presently in the battery. The application then accesses a predetermined network resource by way of wireless signals requesting information regarding accessible charging stations within a convenient distance such as five hundred feet of the present location.

The tablet computer receives a response to the request which includes information regarding three different venues that offer charging stations accessible to the user or to the general public. The information includes venue names addresses or locating directions and describes other goods or services offered by each. This information along with data regarding the present status and an estimated charging time for the rechargeable battery are presented to the user by way of a display or other output device. The application further determines a distance to each of the three venues and presents that information as well. The user is now aware that they will likely lose productive operating time if the battery is not charged at least to a projected level of 60 . The user then selects one of the three venues which is about one hundred feet away using the presented address information. A mapping or navigational aid application or other resources may also be employed. The user then locates the charging station within the selected venue and begins charging the rechargeable battery with no appreciable time wasted searching for such a location.

In another example a user is awaiting a connecting flight in an airport terminal while reading a novel on an e book reader. A data file for a calendar application on the e book reader indicates that their flight is scheduled to depart in one hour and is slated to be two hours long. However an application running in the background senses that the rechargeable battery in the e book reader is presently at an 8 level with a depleted state expected in approximately forty minutes under present use. The application further estimates twenty minutes of charging time beginning now will charge the battery to a sufficient level to allow the user to read from their novel during the scheduled flight.

The application then presents a message on the display of the e book reader indicating the present state of the battery and recommending twenty minutes of charging time to provide sufficient estimated power for use during the flight. The application further queries the user if they would like information regarding charging stations located within the airport. The user provides input to the e book indicating that such information is desirable. The application then accesses a publicly accessible server of the airport by way of wireless signaling seeking information regarding charging stations.

The server determines from stored data that two charging stations are present within two hundred feet of the wireless access point used by the requesting e book reader. The server then sends information regarding these two charging stations to the e book reader which may include nearby gate numbers names of the venues hosting the respective charging stations and so forth. Other information may also be included. This information is presented on the e book display and the user notes that the nearest one of two charging stations is an attendant based venue located just two gates away. The information further indicates that the nearer venue charges one dollar for twenty minutes of charging services which may be applied to the user s credit card or online debit account. The user then proceeds toward the nearer of the two venues.

After arriving at the charging station the user is greeted by the attendant who takes possession of the e book reader in exchange for an electronic paging device. The user then authorizes the charging fee and uses their credit card to pay the charges. The user then departs for a nearby coffee vendor while the attendant connects the e book reader to a charging port and begins the twenty minute charging process. While connected to the charging port a server device downloads promotional information about items and services available from the commercial entity operating the charging station venue. Once the charging process is complete the user is alerted by the paging device to return to the charging station venue. The paging device is then exchanged for their e book reader which is now sufficiently charged for use during the impending flight. Respective variations on the foregoing may also be used in accordance with the methods devices and systems described herein.

A computing device is depicted as a tablet computer. Numerous other types of computing devices such as smart phones wearable computers laptop computers media devices e book readers and so on may also be used. The computing device is associated with a user . The computing device is configured for portable operation and is powered by a rechargeable battery which is supported by the computing device .

In another instance the computing device is powered by one or more fuel cells super capacitors or another suitable type of energy storage device. Such energy storage devices are thus rechargeable by way of electrical energy chemical energy or chemical refill hydrogen based fuel one or more fuel cell reactants mechanical energy stored by way of a wind up spring flywheel or another consumable resource that may be replenished by way of a suitable charging station.

The computing device also includes a finder module . The finder module may include electronic circuitry a controller non volatile storage media executable program code or any other suitable constituency. The finder module is configured to perform various operations and functions as described herein. The finder module is further configured to access other resources of the computing device such as wireless communications resources rechargeable battery management circuitry a display or other output device cellular communications circuitry and so forth. The computing device is also configured to send and receive data signals or other information by way of wireless signals . Such wireless signals may include without limitation those in accordance with Institute of Electrical and Electronics IEEE standard 802.11 such as Bluetooth Wi Fi or other protocols. Other suitable wireless signaling formats protocols or standards may also be used.

A server may be configured to communicate with the computing device using an access point AP by way of one or more networks using the wireless signals and so forth. For example the computing device may connect to the access point which is connected to the network which in turn connects to the server . In another example the server may include the AP or equivalent components and may provide wireless connectivity to the computing device . The network s may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or access thereto and so forth. In one instance the server may be owned or operated by an entity such as a commercial enterprise which offers goods or services related to charging rechargeable batteries as used within respective computing devices . In another instance the server may be owned or operated by an entity that provides data regarding charging stations and other items of interest to business travelers or other persons. The server may be associated with other entity types as well such as an online retailer travel agency facilities operator and so forth.

The server includes a charging module . The charging module may include electronic circuitry a controller or controllers non volatile storage media executable program code one or more data structures or any other suitable constituency. The charging module is configured to perform various operations and functions as described herein. In one instance the charging module is configured to provide a network resource that is accessible by the computing device through the network s . For instance such a network resource may be a webpage or webpages hosted by the server . The network resource may present or enable access to information regarding respective charging stations located within accessible venues. For instance such venues may be publically accessible or specifically accessible to the user such as the user s place of employment a club where the user is member and so on. Other venue information or selection methods may also be used.

The server may also store charging station data including but not limited to venue names addresses geolocation coordinates available charging voltages available charging capacities or amperages supported connector or computing device types usage fees or related costs security or access requirements numbers of charging ports reservation information goods or services offered by the hosting venue and so forth. Other data or information may also be included in the charging station data . The charging station data may be formatted or stored as one or more data structures classified or sorted based on respective cities or other geographic regions and so on.

Also depicted are three respective accessible venues . Specifically venues and are depicted. Each venue may be an entity such as a retailer commercial service provider government office public facility and so on. For purposes of non limiting illustration the venue may be a coffee shop the venue may be an airport and the venue may be a computer store. Other suitable venues may also be considered. The venues offer respective goods or perform respective services accordingly.

Further depicted are three respective charging stations and . Each of the charging stations is configured to provide or communicate electrical energy to a respective number of computing devices . The charging stations may include electronic devices cabling systems various electrical connectors or docking ports inductive type charging pads a controller or controllers power conditioning or voltage regulating circuitry or other suitable constituency. Each charging station is also coupled to a source of electrical energy such as line level voltage provided by a distribution utility and so on. In one instance a charging station may operate off the grid by way of solar or wind power or another independent or renewable resource.

Respective charging stations may be in the form of various computing devices the accessory device discussed below or other devices operated by one or more respective users . For instance a portable computing device may include a finder module or other resources enabling it to report the state of its battery or other energy storage device to a corresponding user . The computing device may then be used to provide electrical energy to another computing device in accordance with an expected short term usage or other need. Thus various devices having respective primary functions or applications may also serve in a limited host mode so as to provide operating energy to the computing device or other devices. The limited host may be limited with respect to the charging station in that other features such as data transfer rapid charging multiple device charging capability and so forth may be unavailable on the limited host . In another situation a finder module may be configured to seek another device by way of wireless signals which is able to provide or sell energy resources determine if such a device is a suitable match based on connector types or reserve energy quantities and so forth.

In some implementations matches between users may be facilitated based on other criteria such as content consumption. For example the user may have the accessory device which is fully charged while the user may have a computing device which has an almost empty battery. Both users and may have consumed the same content such as reading the same book. Based on this common content consumption and the need of user for a charge the system may facilitate an introduction of the users and with something in common the book such that the computing device may be charged. While the charging is taking place the two users and may discuss the book they have in common.

The owner of the computing device accessory device or other device which provides the electrical energy may receive remuneration or other compensation for providing the electrical energy. For example government sponsored currency virtual currency points or other value keeping units may be exchanged in return for providing the electrical energy the service or both.

The charging stations may provide other functionality as well. For example the charging stations may include an access point or equivalent components and may provide wireless connectivity to the computing devices .

An illustrative and non limiting operation is as follows The user is operating the computing device in a public environment within a threshold distance or otherwise proximate to the respective venues . The threshold distance may be a fixed value or may vary based on other conditions. For example the conditions upon which the threshold distance may be based may include one or more of time available to charge the computing device departure time for the user time before a next meeting congestion estimated travel speed and so forth. For example the threshold distance for a particular user scheduled to board an aircraft in 15 minutes may be 200 meters while the same user scheduled to board an aircraft in 45 minutes may have a threshold distance of 500 meters.

The instantaneous voltage of the rechargeable battery may correspond to or be indicative of the remaining electrical energy stored therein that may be drawn or consumed by the computing device . Thus as usage of the computing device continues the rechargeable battery exhibits a progressively decreasing voltage.

The finder module includes or is defined by an application that runs in the background on the computing device . The finder module may use historical operating or usage data for the computing device to estimate operating energy requirements for given periods of time in particular future periods of time. The finder module may also use such historical usage data to estimate the amount of time that the user will continue to operate the computing device before it is recharged. Thus for instance the finder module is configured to estimate the amount of electrical energy that is likely to be required for the remainder of the present workday.

The finder module monitors or receives data from other resources that monitor the voltage of the rechargeable battery . The finder module compares the present rechargeable battery charge level which may be determined or estimated from a present voltage measurement with an estimated need for the remainder of the present operating period and determines that there is likely to be insufficient stored energy. For instance the present energy storage level of the rechargeable battery may be 20 while the finder module estimates that a level of 45 is required to complete the anticipated workday before the computing device is returned to its home charging station. The finder module further estimates or determines that approximately twenty three minutes of charge time starting now would charge the rechargeable battery to the estimated or projected need level of 45 .

The finder module accesses the server using wireless signals as a background operation. For instance cellular or satellite signaling wireless Internet Wi Fi or other wireless signals may be used in the interest of sufficient communications range or other considerations. The finder module provides information regarding the present location of the computing device to the server as may be determined through satellite navigation cellular positioning or another suitable technique. Additionally the finder module requests information regarding charging stations within accessible venues that are near to the present location of the computing device for instance within five hundred feet. Such a distance or range may be a default value or may be adjustable in accordance with user input statistical information or other factors.

The charging module of the server accesses the charging station data seeking information in accordance with the request sent by the finder module . The charging module determines that three such venues namely and fit the requested information. The charging module also determines that the venue the retail coffee shop is the nearest of these to the reported location of the computing device and that a charging fee of thirty five cents applies to those wishing to use the charging station located therein. The charging module then sends information back to the computing device including the foregoing information an address for the venue and so forth.

The computing device receives the reply from the server and provides it to the finder module . The finder module then interrupts another application that presently being used such as a spreadsheet application and presents displayed data on the computing device . As depicted the displayed data includes the present and estimate battery levels of 20 and 45 respectively the estimated charging time of twenty three minutes and the charging fee of thirty five cents that may be charged to an account of the user . The displayed data further includes the name address and distance to the nearest venue the coffee shop which includes a publically accessible charging station . The displayed data may also be communicated from the computing device to another computing device such as a smart watch smart phone or other device of the user which may present the displayed data .

Concluding the present example the user is now aware of the need to charge the rechargeable battery if they wish to continue to use the computing device for the remainder of the anticipated workday. The user may then acknowledge the displayed data act in accordance therewith or ignore it or take other action.

The charging module may be further configured to add to amend or delete from the charging station data in accordance with information received from any suitable source. In one instance information regarding respective venues as received from various users either voluntarily or solicited may be used to discover new charging stations or to correct existing information accordingly. In another instance the operator or entity associated with the server may survey commercial entities city or county governments or acquire information from travel or business oriented services. In yet another instance the operator of the server may subscribe to an information resource that provides new or amended charger station data on a periodic basis. Other data acquisition techniques may also be used.

In another situation a user may be in possession of a computing device that has been reported stolen. The user may couple or join such a stolen computing device to a charging station . An identity of the stolen computing device such as a serial number or other data may be communicated to the server which in turn may take corresponding action. In one example the server may send an alert text message or e mail to the rightful owner of the stolen computing device if such contact information is known or accessible. In another example the server may alert an attendant or other responsible person at the venue of the charging station such that police or other authorities may be summoned or the stolen computing device may be confiscated. In still another example the server may cause one or more functions or applications of the stolen computing device to be disabled pending input of a reactivation password that is communicated to the rightful owner. In yet another example a tracking application or signaling circuitry of the stolen computing device may be activated by the server . Other appropriate intervention actions may be taken in view of detecting a stolen computing device by way of a charging station .

In one implementation the computing device may be in the form of a watch or other wearable device that communicates by wireless signals with another computing device such as a mobile phone or tablet. In turn the mobile phone may provide one or more services analogous to the server or may access resources connected to the networks and provide connectivity or otherwise relay information to the computing device . Other devices having respective multi modal capabilities may also be used.

A wireless access point may be configured to couple the computing device in data or signal communication with various entities such as the server other computing devices and so on by way of wireless signals . For instance such wireless signals may be in accordance with Wi Fi or another protocol. The wireless access point may be further configured to couple to the network s . For example the wireless access point may be located in the coffee shop of the venue such that the user may access or browse the Internet using the computing device . In particular the computing device may access information regarding charging stations by way of the wireless access point .

A network access satellite may be configured to couple the computing device to the internet based or accessible resources such as the server by way of a wireless signals and the network s . For example the network access satellite may allow the user to access information regarding charging stations while in a more remote area such as at highway rest area while approaching an urban area. Alternatively the network access satellite may enable such access while the computing device is being used in an urban outdoor setting such as a city park.

A cellular tower is also depicted. The cellular tower may be configured to couple the computing device in cellular communication with cellular phones smart phones other computing device Internet based or connected resources such as the server and so on. For instance the user may use the computing device to search for information regarding charging stations by way of wireless signals i.e. cellular signals communicated through the cellular tower .

Thus the computing device or various other devices may access share or exchange data and information with each other or network connected entities by way of various wireless pathways. The wireless access point the network access satellite and the cellular tower are just three examples of any number of suitable wireless resources contemplated for use by respective computing devices . The computing device or other devices may participate in ad hoc networks peer to peer networks or other device groupings or associations for the exchange of data or information for performing cooperative operations and so on.

In one example the user may use the computing device to query the server or another computing entity in regard to charging stations or other services available aboard an aircraft or passenger train. Such a query may be performed in anticipation of travel in the near future for example. A response to the query may include information regarding charging stations charging ports available at or near to an assigned seat of the user availability of digital content that may be provided or purchased during travel and so on. In this way a user may inquire as to what computing device related facilities or resources will be available while flying traveling by rail or during other modes of transport.

Illustrative charging station data is also depicted. The charging station data is structured as a data table wherein each of the respective rows includes information for a particular venue . As depicted three venues include coffee shop computer store and airport respectively. The charging station data also includes locations for each of the venues . Such location information may be provided or formatted in any suitable way such as street or mailing addresses geographical coordinates relative directions from a present base location and so forth.

For instance two respective street addresses are shown for two of the venues as these are relatively small commercial entities. As such the user is relatively close to or within visible distance of the corresponding charging station upon entering either of these venues . In contrast a location in terms of a gate number B 15 is provided for a charge station located within the airport as such a location is relatively vast in area and additional internal locating information is needed or useful. Additional locating details may also be provided depending upon the nature of a particular venue such as 20 feet inside from front entrance adjacent to restroom area and so forth.

The charging station data also includes a total number of charging ports where such information is known for each of the venues . For instance the charging station accessible at the coffee shop includes six total charging ports and may thus accommodate up to six different computing devices . Similarly the charging station located near gate B 15 in the airport includes sixteen charging ports. The charging ports information is subject to change as charging ports are added or removed updated information becomes available or is reported and so on.

The charging station data also includes charging port availability for each of the venues . The availability data is subject to rapid change and therefore may only be tracked for those venues that report such information on a real time or nearly real time basis. For instance the coffee shop reports that two of the six charging ports are presently available while the computer store is reporting that one of six charging ports are currently unused. In turn the airport venue does not report availability information and thus N A or not available is depicted.

The charging station data further includes a reservation indicator or related information for each of the venues . For instance the coffee shop will accept a reservation for a charging port but will only hold that reservation for the fifteen minutes following the time that it is made. In turn the computer store does not accept charging port reservations. Finally reservation information for the airport is unknown and thus indicated as N A . Other types of information or data may also be included in the charging station data accordingly. The charging station data depicts information regarding three venues in the interest of clarity. However data structures or tables may include charging station data corresponding to any suitable number of venues and their respective charging stations .

The charging station data may also include access information regarding any restrictions or authorizations that a corresponding venue imposes on use of the corresponding charging station . For instance the coffee shop and the airport venues both offer public access to their respective charging stations . In turn the charging station hosted by the computer store is only available to members of a charging or services club . Thus a particular privilege or group association is required to use the charging station provided by the computer store venue . The access information may include particular details as to which groups associations or security clearances are accepted. Furthermore the finder module may be configured to locate venues associated with one or more particular groups or may be configured to locate only publicly accessible venues . Other venue filtering or selection criteria may also be used.

The charging station data may also include power parameters information regarding the electrical characteristics of the charging station provided at the corresponding venue . Such power parameters may include available voltages current capacities connector specifications or identifiers availability of induction type charging pads or other technical data. The finder module may be configured to locate and present venues based upon particular electrical criteria as well. The charging station data may further include other information or data for the respective venues such as the availability of secured or locking type charging ports connector or computing device compatibilities accessories or other items offered for rental or sales and so forth. Other information may also be included in the charging station data as well.

The user interface may include or indicate a resource locator corresponding to a network resource provided by the server . In one instance the user interface is provided or hosted by the finder module and runs or operates on the computing device . Such a user interface presents pieces of information acquired from the computing device or the server or both. Other operating scenarios may also be used. The user interface also receives user input toward selecting or locating charging stations near to a particular geographic location. In another instance the finder module or the user interface or both is or are provided as an application running on the computing device .

The user interface may also include a battery display . The battery display may include a battery graph which indicates a present condition or level of the rechargeable battery of the computing device . The battery graph may also indicate an estimated need level indicative of an amount of energy required to maintain operation of the computing device for a foreseeable period such as the remainder of a workday or during scheduled travel by aircraft and so on. The difference between the present level and the estimated need level represents the amount of energy to be added to the rechargeable battery by way of a charging station . Additional description regarding the determination of an estimated need value is provided below with respect to .

The battery display may also include time estimates which may include an estimated time required to charge the rechargeable battery from the present level to the estimated need level. The time estimates may also include an estimated time required to charge the rechargeable battery from the present level to a fully charged state. The time estimates may be presented in terms of second minutes hours or any other suitable or convenient units. In this way the user may be informed as to the need to recharge the computing device in order to maintain operations for the foreseeable time period.

The user interface may further include a charging stations display . The charging stations display may include textual or graphical information corresponding to one or more accessible venues that host respective charging stations . Such venues may be selected in accordance with a range control . The range control allows for user input of a distance value or selection from a predefined list of distance values from the present location of the computing device .

Once the range control is selected or adjusted the finder module may then request information from the server regarding charging stations within the user selected distance of the present location of the computing device . In another instance the finder module accesses charging station data stored within the computing device and selects information for corresponding charging stations . Other operations may also be performed.

As depicted three respective venues are located within three hundred feet of the present location of the computing device and corresponding information for each is presented. For instance a coffee shop venue is the nearest at ninety one feet away from the computing device location and includes six charging port two of which are presently available for use. Reservations are also accepted at the coffee shop but such a reservation is only valid for twenty minutes. The coffee shop venue also charges a fee of thirty five cents and it is possible to order food or drinks in advance by clicking on an additional control.

A reservation selector may be actuated by user input such as touch gesturing mouse clicking or another suitable technique. Activation of the reservation selector may cause the finder module to send a request to reserve a charging port to an entity associated with the coffee shop venue to the server or another computing device accordingly. A reservation indicator may visually indicate that the reservation has been accepted or successfully made in accordance with information or signaling received back from the coffee shop entity or the server and so forth. Other sorts of reservation oriented controls or indicating devices may also be used. Thus the user may proceed to the coffee shop venue with confidence that a charging port has been reserved for their use.

The charging stations display also includes information or details regarding the other two venues a computer store and a bank . As depicted the three respective venues are presented in ascending order of distance from the present location of the computing device . A scroll control allows for the user to scroll through the charging stations display in the event that numerous venues are identified in accordance with the current location or range criteria. The scroll control may be actuated by drag gesturing mouse dragging or other suitable user input.

The user interface may also include other input devices output devices or controls such as an execute control configured to cause the finder module perform an operation request or select information and so on based upon user input to respective controls. The user interface may also include an exit control configured to cause the finder module to shut down or close the user interface . The execute control or exit control or both may be actuated by way of touch gesturing mouse clicking or another suitable input technique.

A self service secure charging station SSSCS is depicted. The SSSCS may be provided in the form of a kiosk a booth a room within another area or space as a moveable cart or in another suitable embodiment. The SSSCS includes three respective charging ports and . Each charging port is configured to communicate or transfer electrical energy to a computing device so as to recharge one or more rechargeable batteries therein. The charging ports may include any suitable electrical connectors docking features cabling assemblies inductive charging pads wireless communication resources infra red or optical transceivers and so on so as to mate with a given computing device . The SSSCS is configured such that the user may use operate or access features of the SSSCS without assistance from a clerk attendant or other person.

Each charging port is also configured to couple a computing device in data or signal communication with the server such that digital content may be communicated or downloaded to the corresponding computing device . Non limiting examples of such digital content include audio files video files advertising matter travel information digital photographs maps e books applications files or upgrades operating systems or upgrades data structures and so on. For instance a user may opt to purchase an e book and have it downloaded into their computing device such as an e book reader while that computing device is being charged by a particular SSSCS .

In another instance the computing device may be configured to disable communication nodes that are otherwise electrically connected to a charging port . For example the respective data lines of a universal serial bus USB port on the computing device may be deactivated while that port is used to receive charging energy from the SSSCS . Thus information cannot be communicated to or from the computing device during the charging process. The computing device is therefore protected against data theft tampering operating system or application damage hacking or other malicious operations.

Each charging port includes a corresponding locking mechanism and respectively which is configured to lockably secure a computing device in place while it is being charged or communicated with. Locking mechanisms for use with the respective charging ports may include any suitable features or attributes such as lockable covers or metallic cages that close down over a computing device enclosed lockers or cubby holes with lockable doors and so on. Other features or configurations may also be used.

Each of the charging ports also includes a pager key that is uniquely associated with that particular charging port . As depicted the pager key is associated with the locking mechanism of the charging port and none of the others. In one instance the locking mechanism locks securing a corresponding computing device in place when the pager key is removed from a corresponding connector port or keyway. In turn the locking mechanism unlocks thus allowing the computing device to be removed from the charging port when the pager key is returned to the corresponding port or keyway.

Additionally the pager key is configured to receive wireless signals from the SSSCS indicative of a charging status of a computing device being charged by the charging port . The pager key may for example provide a visual real time indication of such charging status provide an audible tone or alert when the charging process is complete and so on.

A non limiting operation of the self service secure charging station is as follows the user uses the computing device to access the server by way of wireless signals . The user then provides input requesting charging services at the SSSCS indicates the time period or level of the desired charge authorizes any fees or charges selects digital content for download and so on. The user then connects the computing device to the charging port and closes a hinged transparent cover of the locking mechanism there over and removes the pager key from its corresponding connector. The transparent cover then locks closed securing the computing device in place and the charging and or download process begins.

The user may then move some appreciable distance away for example within a transportation terminal or other setting. Sometime thereafter the pager key provides audible or visible alerts to the user indicating that the charging of the rechargeable battery within the computing device is complete. The user then returns to the SSSCS placing the pager key in contact with its connector. The transparent cover of the locking mechanism then unlocks accordingly and the user may remove the computing device from the charging port and depart from the area.

In another instance the user is issued a paging device or may provide communication information about another computing device in their possession. For example the user may provide a cellular phone number of their smartphone computing device while their tablet computing device is being charged. The paging device or other computing device may present information to the user regarding state of charge time remaining until a charging operation is complete and so on. Continuing the example the charging station may send a text message to the user s smartphone computing device indicating that the tablet computing device is fully charged.

The user may access or unlock the corresponding locking mechanism using a password combination or code a signal from a smart watch or smart phone a mechanical key or other device. Other methods or systems may also be used.

The SSSCS may also include various batteries that are fully charged and available for rental or purchase by the user . For instance the user may rent a particular battery for use with the computing device at an SSSCS located in a transportation hub such as a train station. Such rental may be facilitated for example by way of a vending machine or other system wherein payment is made by way of credit card cash receiving mechanism online transaction or the like. The user then installs the battery within the computing device and uses it during rail travel. The user may then return or drop off the rented battery at a corresponding SSSCS at the destination train station at a designated drop off bin or at some other suitable receiving location. Other temporary use or rental scenarios may also be used.

Also depicted is an attendant operated charging station AOCS . The AOCS may be provided in the form of a kiosk a booth a room as a moveable cart or in another suitable embodiment. The AOCS includes three respective charging ports and . Each charging port is configured to transfer electrical energy to a computing device so as to recharge one or more rechargeable batteries therein. The charging ports may include any suitable electrical connectors cabling assemblies docking features inductive charging pads wireless communication resources infra red or optical transceivers and so on so as to mate with a respective computing device or other apparatus.

Each charging port is also configured to couple a computing device in data or signal communication with the server by way of the network s such that digital content may be communicated or downloaded to a corresponding computing device . For instance the user may opt to purchase an electronic atlas for an area and have it downloaded into their computing device while that computing device is being charged by a particular AOCS .

The AOCS may also include a battery exchange program or system. The battery exchange may include rechargeable batteries characterized by various makes models configurations capacities and so forth which are pre charged and ready to be used by respectively varying computing devices . In one instance the user exchanges their existing rechargeable battery for a pre charged unit available from the battery exchange . A fee or additional service cost may also be applied. In this way a computing device is effectively recharged almost instantaneously allowing the user to depart from the AOCS immediately.

The AOCS may further include respective rental items . Such rental items may include without limitation charging or data signaling cables connectors adapters wall chargers or bricks portable charging stations or accessory devices batteries carrying cases and so forth. Other rental items may also be provided. The AOCS may offer to sell one or more of the respective rental items or other items may be designated for sale only as well. In one instance a user may rent a fully charged battery from an AOCS at a departure airport draw energy from the rented battery for use of the computing device during flight and then return the rented battery to another AOCS at a destination airport. Other acquisition and return scenarios may also be used. For example the user may purchase the battery before travel and return after travel for a partial refund or credit.

Operating or life time data for respective rental batteries may be tracked and used for various purposes. For example the charge and discharge cycling history of a particular battery may be recorded and used toward predicting an end of life date or estimating a present resale value for that battery . In another example a given battery may not be offered for rental based on a relatively heavy usage history that is such a particular battery may not be reliable for intensive or extended operations. In yet another example usage data may be used to track energy storage capacity for use in estimating operating times. Energy usage or battery operating data may be applied to other operations as well.

A non limiting operation of the AOCS is as follows the user approaches the AOCS and is greeted by an attendant . The user requests full recharging of their computing device and provides for payment of any fees or other costs by way of a credit card. The attendant then receives the computing device from the user and connects it to the charging port wherein the charging process begins. The attendant then provides a claim tag to the user for use in claiming their computing device later on. Furthermore the user provides a cellular phone number for a smart phone to the attendant . In another instance the computing device includes a cellular phone number or other contact information corresponding to the smart phone or another computing device associated with the user .

The user may then leave the immediate area engage in other activities and so forth while waiting for the rechargeable battery within their computing device to be recharged. Meanwhile the attendant may provide the cellular phone number to the server along with information identifying the computing device method of payment or other information obtained from the user . Additionally the computing device may communicate identifying information or other data to the server without attendant intervention. At some later time the computing device is fully charged and a corresponding message is communicated through the charging port to the server . The server then sends a text message to the smart phone indicative of the completed charging task. The user may now return to the AOCS and exchange the claim tag for the computing device by way of the attendant .

In another example the user may bring the computing device to the AOCS or another point of sale location seeking to exchange the computing device for a newer unit or a different make or model. The attendant may then digitally photograph the exterior features and condition of the computing device initiate a diagnostic check or other automated evaluation of the computing device or perform other actions. Data files applications digital photographs audio or video content and so forth may then be transferred from the computing device into the replacement unit. Other trade in or exchange operations may also be performed.

In another instance the same or a similar a trade in procedure may be performed by way of a self service charging station or self service secure charging station . In particular the user may approach the SSSCS and provides input to either the computing device or a terminal or other input device indicating that the user wishes to exchange the computing device toward a newer or different unit. A camera optical or laser scanner or other device may be used to evaluate the present condition of the computing device and provides corresponding images or data to the server or to a remote device or operator. Diagnostics or other procedures may also be performed toward evaluating or rating the condition of the computing device such that an exchange value may be determined or estimated.

The user may then surrender the computing device to an automated receiving system and corresponding credit value toward another device is provided by way of a credit card online debit account or other suitable procedure to the user . Additionally data or media files user profile settings applications operating system enhancements and so on may be transferred to a replacement computing device at that time or uploaded to the server for later download when a replacement computing device is acquired by the user . Other procedures may also be performed.

In another instance the finder module may assist a user so as to identify a kiosk or other location that includes a matching computing device such as a tablet computer as they are presently using but with a battery which has more charge. The matching computing device may include the same memory exhibit a same or similar overall physical condition may have the same or similar features same or compatible installed software and so forth.

The user may then select that kiosk and pick up a fully charged fully resourced replacement computing device therefrom within a certain time period. While the user is in route to the kiosk the user s present computing device is communicating with the server so as to provision the replacement computing device with the same settings user preferences data files or other content. Additional content or data may also be downloaded into the replacement computing device such as a movie from the user watch list or other reference file that the user has on their present computing device . The data or file transference to the replacement computing device may be performed by way of secure elements such as trusted platform modules TPMs or other techniques.

Such an operation may help in situations where the computing device does not have an easily replaceable battery and where the user does not have enough time to charge the battery to an estimated need level. The computing device that is surrendered in the exchange can then be inspected by an attendant or may be sent to some centralized inspection facility to evaluate the condition thereof. If the surrendered computing device is of the same or comparable condition as the replacement computing device then no further actions may be needed.

However if the surrendered computing device is of lesser condition or damaged an account of the user may be automatically charged the difference in value. Alternatively a fee to bring the surrendered computing device back to a minimum threshold of usability which may involve replacing the battery display or other elements. If the surrendered computing device is in better condition than the replacement computing device an account of the user may be credited the difference. The attendant or a central facility may service or refurbish the surrendered computing device recharge the battery and use the refurbished computing device to restock the kiosk or another location.

In still another example numerous users such as students within an elementary school high school college or another educational or academic institution may use computing devices that are owned or administrated by the corresponding institution. Such computing devices may be the same type or model or may vary and may be tablet computers e book readers media viewers laptop or wearable computers or other suitable devices. Such computing devices may be collected at a charging station kiosk receiving office or booth or other designated location as part of a periodic routine for recharging or consumables replenishment diagnostic evaluation inspection of physical condition installation or upgrade of digital content or other procedures.

A particular computing device may be assigned to a particular student user for the duration of an academic time period such as a semester or school year. Such assignment may be based on a serial number a tagging element such as a radio frequency identification device RFID acquisition and storage of a biometric characteristic or signature of the user or another unique association of the user with the computing device . Alternatively respective computing devices may be issued to respective student users during a daily weekly or other periodic distribution wherein each user is associated with a particular computing device each time such that a particular computing device is used by numerous different users over the course of an academic year for example. Other processes may also be used. User profile information or user established settings customized preferences particular applications data files and so on may be transferred from a surrendered computing device to a replacement computing device if an exchange of such computing devices is performed. Alternatively such user specific data or information may be communicated to the server for later download to an exchange computing device as part of an exchange process.

Computing devices may be scanned or evaluated to detect usage or conditions which may be beyond previously established thresholds or standards. For example the computing devices may be scanned to determine changes in installed software such as if malicious or unauthorized software is present on the computing device . In another example the computing device may be analyzed to detect unauthorized use storage of inappropriate material or other policy violations. The computing devices may be analyzed subsequent to collection from the users such as after the students deposit their computing devices . Similar or respectively varying procedures may be used with respect to numerous computing devices associated with members of a group or club personnel within a clinic or hospital workers or operators at an industrial site or in other situations or environments.

The accessory device may include one or more rechargeable batteries . In another instance the accessory device may include a fuel cell a capacitor a super capacitor or other energy storage devices. Such an energy storage device or devices are thus rechargeable or replenishable by way of electrical energy chemical energy or chemical refill hydrogen based fuel one or more fuel cell reactants or another consumable resource that may be acquired from a suitable source. For example the accessory device may comprise a plurality of the rechargeable batteries and be described as a rechargeable battery pack. In another example the accessory device may comprise a plurality of the fuel cells capacitors and so forth and be described as a rechargeable energy pack. The accessory device may also be referred to as a rechargeable energy pack or rechargeable battery pack as well.

The accessory device may include power transistors or other switching elements configured to couple two or more batteries in various series parallel or series parallel circuit configurations. Thus the batteries of the accessory device may be selectively electrically reconfigurable so to provide different voltages or charging currents or accommodate other electrical parameters.

The accessory device also includes an operating module . The operating module may include electronic circuitry or respective electronic circuits one or more processors computer executable code stored on non transitory storage media indicating lights or an electronic display pushbuttons or other user input devices and so forth. The operating module may also include wired or wireless communication interfaces configured to communicate data information or other signals with other devices or entities.

The operating module may further include one or more respective sensors . The sensor s may include one or more thermometers for measuring battery temperature or ambient temperatures a global positioning system GPS receiver or other satellite based locating resource an ambient light sensor or various other detectors or instrumentation. The operating module may include other suitable constituency as well. The operating module is configured to perform or control various operations of the accessory device . The accessory device may also include one or more components or elements as described herein for the computing device . Thus the accessory device is not limited with respect to any suitable resources or functions that it may include.

The accessory device may be configured to perform various respective functions or include one or more accessories as well. In one instance the accessory device may include a detachable flashlight or other convenience. In another instance the accessory device also functions as a digital wallet for the user wherein virtual currency or digital tokens may be communicated therefrom to a smart phone or other device. The accessory device may include a near field communication NFC module to facilitate the communication of these digital tokens virtual currency or other data. In yet another instance the accessory device is configured and resourced to operate as a Wi Fi hot spot . Other functions or operations may also be included.

The accessory device may also include historic usage data . The historic usage data may be stored on storage media organized as one or more various data structures and so forth. The historic usage data may include describe or quantify information regarding power consumption by one or more respective load devices such as computing devices power tools media devices wearable computers portable appliances test equipment diagnostic devices and so forth. For instance the historic usage data may include data regarding power or electrical current consumption over time as a particular load device is used to perform various tasks. In another example the historic usage data may be used to provide a reminder to a user to recharge batteries within portable power tools before heading to a worksite at the beginning of a workday. The historic usage data may also be used in other ways.

In another instance the historic usage data may include one or more power curves or functions quantifying energy consumption for a given load device over a particular period of time such as a specific or averaged workday weekend day and so forth. The historic usage data may be acquired from respective load devices such as the computing device or the smart phone or may be generated by operation of the operating module or acquired or generated by way of other operations.

The historic usage data may correspond to one or more load devices that do not include wireless network based or other communications capabilities. For instance the accessory device may measure track or record historic usage data for a particular device that is not configured to communicate such information to the server or another entity. The accessory device may then process such historic usage data forward that historic usage data or corresponding information to the server or perform other operations on behalf of that device. For instance the accessory device may be configured to provide a certain amount of energy for example 500 milliampere hours to the computing device determining that the energy storage of the computing device is now full . This energy provisioning data may be used by the operating module for future estimating purposes communicated to the server and so on.

The accessory device may also include one or more power profiles . Each power profile may predict or model energy consumption over time corresponding to a particular task or function performed by a given load device . For instance a power profile may predict electrical consumption by the computing device during the presentation of a 2 hour audio video presentation or movie. In another instance a power profile may predict electrical consumption by the smart phone during a cellular phone call of 10 minutes duration. In yet another instance a power profile may predict electrical consumption by the computing device during an upcoming 4 hour flight. Other units of measure time correspondences and so forth may be used to define respective power profile .

Such power profiles may be predefined and acquired from a manufacturer vendor or other source associated with a particular load device . In another example power profiles corresponding to respective applications running on particular load devices may be acquired from sources or vendors of those applications. In one case a power profile may be defined in terms of instantaneous power consumption such as Watts which may be multiplied by a period of time such as minutes or seconds in accordance with an actual or estimated usage time for that application. In another case a power profile maybe defined in terms of total power consumption such as milliampere hours over a predetermined period of time such as 1 hour. In still another case the operating module may record historic usage data for a particular load device and then process that historic usage data so as to generate one or more power profiles . Other power profile methodologies may also be used.

The accessory device may be configured to be coupled to an external source of electrical energy such as a charging port . Charging power is then received by the accessory device and used to charge the battery under the control of the operating module . The charging power may be alternating current AC direct current DC or characterized by respectively different voltages. In another instance the accessory device may be equipped to receive electrical energy from an external source by way of wireless power transfer.

The operating module may also control provisioning of electrical power to respective load devices . In one example the accessory device includes a USB port that is configured to connect to the charging port and to receive the charging power . Other protocols may also be used such as a serial or parallel communications port Firewire Apple desktop bus ADB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI or other suitable protocols and their corresponding connectors. In turn the accessory device may be further configured to disable data or communication lines of the USB port so as to prevent damage or data theft by malicious entities. In another example the accessory device may include a USB or other port that is completely lacking data or communication lines and is thus configured for charging purposes only.

In yet another example the accessory device may be equipped to provide charging power to respective load devices by way of wireless power transfer or other devices. In still another example the operating module may prioritize or apportion the allocation of power to respective load devices based on the historic usage data one or more of the power profiles upcoming events such as air travel or a vacation and so on. Other suitable configurations or methods may also be used.

In another instance the operating module of the accessory device may use the historic usage data one or more of the power profiles or some combination of these to estimate future energy requirements of one or more load devices . The operating module may then use the estimate or estimates to calculate or determine a quantity of energy to be stored in the battery s of the accessory device and control charging of the battery s accordingly. Thus the accessory device may be configured to store up sufficient energy as received from the charging port or another external source so as to provide for predicted energy needs of various load devices during future operations such as during business travel vacationing and so forth.

For example the computing device may be coupled to the accessory device by way of a wired connection such that power and data may be communicated there between. In one example the power and data are communicated using a USB protocol. Information regarding present battery levels of the computing device or the accessory device or both may be shared between these respective devices by way of the power and data . The computing device and the accessory device may also be respectively configured to communicate data or information with each other using wireless signals such as Wi Fi Bluetooth and so on.

Additionally the historic usage data one or more of the power profiles or other data or information may be communicated between the computing device and the accessory device . The power and data may further provide electrical energy from the accessory device to the computing device for recharging or replenishing the battery or other energy storage device thereof.

In another instance the accessory device may provide power to the smart phone by way of a wired connection. Thus the accessory device may provide electrical energy for recharging or replenishing an energy storage device such as a battery of the smart phone . As depicted the smart phone may be configured to communicate a present level of such an energy storage device historic usage data power profiles or other data or information to the computing device by way of wireless signal such as Wi Fi Bluetooth and so forth.

The computing device may also include a management module . The management module may include any suitable constituency such as electronic circuitry dedicated purpose electronic devices a processor device executable program code stored in non transitory storage media and so forth. Other suitable elements or devices may also be included or used. The management module may be configured to communicate data or information to and from the smart phone the accessory device or both of these or other devices. The management module may also be configured to present information to a user regarding the status of battery charging operations estimate available operating times for the respective load devices and perform other operations.

The management module may also be configured to prioritize the allocation of battery energy to certain applications or resources of the computing device . For instance the user may provide input indicating that e mail and word processing applications have a higher priority than a movie playback application while the computing device is being used during travel. Thus the management module may be configured to disable user designated applications or functions during travel or other circumstances so as to conserve stored energy in the battery for business purposes. In another instance the management module may be configured to prioritize or curtail energy provisioning to certain resources functions or applications of the computing device based on historic usage data or power profiles that is to manage power allocation without need for user intervention. Other energy management functions may also be used.

The accessory device may be further configured to communicate with the server by way of the one or more networks . The accessory device may acquire or supplement the historic usage data or the power profiles or both in this way. The accessory device may also acquire digital content from the server for storage within media of the accessory device for communication to the computing device and so on. For instance the accessory device may communicate data energy levels time periods or other information regarding the charging of a battery or other energy storage device within one of the load devices . Other operations or functions may be performed by way of power and data signaling between the server and the accessory device .

In one illustrative and non limiting operation the user couples the accessory device to a charging port . The operating module then controls or regulates the charging of the battery s using the charging power . The user then allows sufficient time for the battery s of the accessory device to charge to a level of for instance 93 of their total energy storage capacity. The user then disconnects the accessory device from the charging port packing it along with the computing device and the smart phone in preparation for business travel. In one example the accessory device may communicate data to or from the charging port during the receiving of charging power therefrom. For instance a USB or other port of the accessory device may be used for both data communication and charging power reception.

Upon arriving at a transportation hub the user connects the computing device and the smart phone to the accessory device by way of respective wired connections. The smart phone communicates a present level of its battery to the computing device by way of wireless signals . In turn the computing device communicates the present battery level of the smart phone to the accessory device by way of the power and data . The computing device communicates the present level of its own battery to the accessory device as well.

The operating module then accesses the historic usage data or one or more of the power profiles and uses these along with the respective battery levels to estimate potential operating times for the computing device and the smart phone respectively. In one instance the estimated operating times may be based on worst case or pessimistic power profiles wherein it is assumed that operations at or near maximum power consumption intensity may be performed by the computing device or the smart phone or both. In another instance the estimated operating times may be based on historic usage data corresponding to previous business travels. Other estimating methods may also be used.

Moreover estimated operating times may be based on the present level of the battery s of the accessory device while other estimated operating times are based on the present levels of the battery of the computing device and the smart phone respectively. Other estimated operating times or basis may also be used. The respective operating time estimates and battery levels are then communicated to the computing device by way of the power and data signals.

The management module receives the operating times and battery levels and uses this information to present displayed data . As depicted the present level of 93 of the accessory device presented as well as a time estimate of 22 minutes to charge the accessory device to 100 of capacity. Such charge time information may be useful to the user in the event that an opportunity to fully charge the accessory device presents itself.

As also depicted it is estimated that the accessory device stores sufficient energy within its battery s to power the computing device alone for a total of 8 hours and 15 minutes. In turn it is estimated that the accessory device stores sufficient energy to power the smart phone alone for a total of 25 hours and 30 minutes.

As further depicted it is estimated that the computing device has enough energy within its own battery to operate for 4 hours and zero minutes while it is estimated that the smart phone has sufficient stored energy to operate for 7 hours and 20 minutes. Finally total estimated operating times of 12 hours and 15 minutes for the computing device and 32 hours and 50 minutes for the smart phone are depicted. These total operating times are based on transferring the stored energy of the accessory device to the computing device or the smart phone respectively.

A power profile depicts a time dependent average power consumption curve for a particular load device . For instance the power profile may depicts the average power consumption profile for the computing device over the course of a workday. Specifically the power profile is a curve or locus defined by a multitude of instantaneous power consumption values in units of Watts plotted with respect to time . Thus the power profile may correspond to various operations that are performed by the computing device such as viewing or answering e mail generating an electronic document producing a business presentation or slideshow and so on by way of one or more respective applications. The power profile may be used to predict or estimate the battery level that is required to operate the computing device for an average workday.

The power profile depicts a time dependent power consumption curve for a particular load device such as the computing device over the course of an average weekend day. The power profile may be indicative of operations such as answering e mail accessing social media playing a game locations where various operations or communication were performed and so forth using respective applications. For instance locations where wireless connectivity is weak or intermittent may result in increased energy consumption from a battery . Thus location may be germane to one or more respective power profiles . It is noted that the power profile is indicative of both overall energy consumption and intensity that are lesser than that of the power profile .

Thus as depicted in this example more energy is drawn from the battery of the computing device during the course of an average weekday relative to an average weekend day. The power profiles and may be used by the operating module or the management module or both in order to estimate required battery levels for operating during weekdays or weekend days respectively. Moreover the power profiles or may be adjusted or modified over time as computing device usages or energy consumption patterns change.

In one instance the server acquires historic usage data from a single computing device or from a population of respective computing devices and generates or adjusts respective power profiles accordingly. Such acquisition processing or generation may be performed either continuous in real time periodically in a batch like manner or both. These adjusted power profiles may then be communicated to respective computing devices to accessory devices and so on. Thus cloud based acquisition or processing of historic usage data or the generation of respective power profiles is contemplated. In another instance the management module of the computing device generates or adjusts respective power profiles over time in accordance with detected energy consumption patterns or trends. In yet another instance the operating module or other resources of the accessory device may acquire historic usage data or generate or adjust various power profiles . Other methods may also be used.

Also depicted is an illustrative power profile corresponding to energy consumption over time for a computing device used during a 4 hour flight. The power profile includes a first portion indicative of energy used during presentation of a 2 hour movie. The power profile also includes a second portion corresponding to energy used during a 1 hour business slideshow. The power profile also includes a third portion corresponding to energy used while drafting e mail messages for 1 hour.

In one respect the power profile is defined in a piece wise manner in accordance with three respective operations or tasks viewing a movie viewing a slideshow and composing e mail messages. In one example the power profile may be used by the management module in order to estimate power consumption and required battery level for an upcoming flight as indicated by a calendar function on the computing device . In another example the respective portions of the power profile may be used by the operating module so as to estimate a required battery level in accordance with respective functions to be performed using the computing device . Other operations using the respective power profiles or may also be performed.

One or more of the respective power profiles may be based at least in part on corresponding historic usage data . In another instance one or more of the respective power profiles may be generated by either the operating module or the management module or both based on detected or inferred load device usage patterns. For example if the user acquires digital content such as a movie and a calendar function of the computing device indicates that a flight is scheduled for the near future the management module may estimate the battery level required to view the movie during the flight. In another example a particular power profile may be generated by an engineer or other skilled user as one of numerous power profiles corresponding to travel related load device usage.

The power profiles or respective portions thereof may also be used to dynamically adjust power consumption by the computing device or other energy consuming device such that operations may be performed for a particular period of time before recharging. For example the management module of the computing device may estimate that 5 more hours of operating time are likely required before a routine recharging of the battery begins. Based on the present level of the battery and a corresponding power profile the management module determines that certain resources of the computing device should be shut down or inactivated so as to conserve sufficient energy to allow for the predicted 5 hours of operation.

Continuing the present example the management module may present information regarding recommended energy conservation efforts which may include a number of options for the user to choose from. For instance the user may elect to shut down a wireless modem or other communications resource as such is not foreseen as being needed for the remaining operating period. In another instance the user may be prompted to authorize the inactivation of one or more applications toward reducing processor load and thus decreasing energy consumption. Shut down operations may be repeated or intensified incrementally over time so as to provide for the remainder of the estimated operating time.

In another example the management module may shut down one or more resources of the computing device as an automatic or background operation without user prompting or intervention based on present or near future circumstances. For instance the management module may determine that the computing device is presently being used during a business flight by accessing a travel scheduling entry within a calendar. If the computing device is being used to view a movie during the flight the management module may shut down one or more wireless functions a radio receiver or other resources not germane to the present usage. The management module may also access one or more power profiles toward determining or prioritizing one or more resources that may be shut down during travel or other circumstance. In yet another example the management module may periodically inactivate or shut down selected resources in the interest of energy conservation and extended operating time for the computing device . For instance the management module may inactivate an application running in the background from time to time re activating it only when needed so as to reduce processor workload and conserve energy accordingly. Other energy conservation measures may also be automated such that the user is unaware of their occurrence.

The computing device may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor s or other portions of the computing device to communicate with various other computing devices other user devices the server or other servers various web based resources and so on. The I O interfaces may be configured to operate in accordance with various protocols such as I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a microphone a digital camera user input buttons and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more displays audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. The I O devices may also include respective navigation resources such as without limitation satellite based navigation or positioning such as the global positioning system GPS or the global navigation satellite system GLONASS cellular tower based locating inertial navigation devices or systems radio based navigation one or more navigational gyroscopes and so on. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated within the computing device or they may be externally placed. The I O devices may include various other devices as well.

The computing device may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications with other computing device web based resources servers routers wireless access points network access satellites cellular towers and so forth. The communication interfaces may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including LANs Wireless LANs WANs Wireless WANs and so forth. The computing device may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the computing device . The computing device may also include one or more rechargeable batteries as described elsewhere herein. Alternatively the computing device may draw operating power from a fuel cell super capacitor flywheel or another suitable replenishable energy source or storage device.

The computing device includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more computer readable storage media CRSM . The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data used during the operation of the computing device . The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . Respective OS modules are configured to manage hardware devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors .

Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks and so forth. A user interface module may be configured to provide one or more user interfaces and may also provide one or more application programming interfaces. The user interface module may be configured to operate with information encoded as hypertext markup language HTML files extensible markup language XML files or in another suitable format or language. The user interface module is configured to accept inputs and send outputs using the I O interfaces the communication interfaces or both.

The memory may also store one or more application modules . Non limiting examples of the application modules include a word processing application a spreadsheet application a technical drawing or illustrating application a photo editing application a web browsing application a portable document viewing application and so on. The memory may also include the finder module or the management module as respectively described elsewhere herein.

The memory may also include a calendar module . The calendar module may include data structure electronic circuitry executable program code and so forth so as to track various scheduled events appointments and the like. For instance the finder module may access scheduling data such as air travel flight times or upcoming meetings within the calendar module for use in determining or recommending rechargeable battery charging times projecting future energy needs or for other purposes. The memory may also include one or more other modules . Non limiting examples of the other modules may include cellular communications circuitry a watchdog or other timer a wireless internet transceiver hardware resources for satellite communications or navigation and so forth.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other computing devices or other devices including servers network attached storage apparatus and so forth.

The datastore may store one or more data structures including charging station data or other related information. The datastore may also include historic usage data or one or more power profiles as respectively described elsewhere herein. The historic usage data may include data statistics or information regarding usage of the computing device such previous time spans of operation time of day data related to operation quantities of energy or level differentials drawn from the rechargeable battery s during operation charging times required to recharge the rechargeable battery s between respective lesser and greater levels and so forth. The historic usage data may be accessed and used and new or amended data may be stored therein by respective operations of the finder module .

For instance the historic usage data may include average operating time periods start and stop times of day battery level i.e. voltage changes correlated to respective operation periods and so forth. Other suitable data or information may also be stored in or read from the historic usage data such that the finder module may estimate future energy requirements based on the past performance of the computing device . In another instance the finder module tracks rechargeable battery level changes and operating time spans for each usage session stores this data within the historic usage data such that a growing data set of performance related information is acquired for present or future use. Other operations or techniques may also be used.

The datastore may also store other data . For example the other data may include one or more data structures that may be queried modified amended and so forth. The other data may also include encryption keys or codes used to access a server or servers or when communicating with network based resources and so forth. Accordingly respective computing devices may be resourced and configured to perform numerous functions as well as to cooperate with one or more other computing devices or apparatus.

The server may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor s or other portions of the server to communicate with various computing devices other servers user devices web based resources and so on. The I O interfaces may be configured to operate in accordance with various protocols such as I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a microphone a camera user input buttons and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more displays audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated within the server or they may be externally placed.

The server may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications with other servers various computing devices web based resources routers wireless access points and so forth. The communication interfaces may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including LANs Wireless LANs WANs Wireless WANs and so forth. The server may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the server .

The server includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more CRSM. The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the server . The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . Respective OS modules are configured to manage hardware devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors .

Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks and so forth. A user interface module may be configured to provide one or more user interfaces such as the user interface or aspects or variants thereof in accordance with signaling or commands from the charging module . The user interface module may also provide one or more application programming interfaces. The user interface module may be configured to operate with information encoded as hypertext markup language HTML files extensible markup language XML files or in another suitable format or language. The user interface module is configured to accept inputs and send outputs using the I O interfaces the communication interfaces or both.

The memory may also store one or more application modules . Non limiting examples of the application modules include a word processing application a data encrypting or decrypting application a data structure generation or management application a web browsing application a portable document generating or viewing application and so on.

The memory may further store a communications module such that charging station data related information user interfaces or other data may be communicated to and from respective computing devices . In one example the communications module includes executable program code electronic circuitry or other resources used to transmit and receive wireless signals signals by way of wired or optical pathways or in accordance with other techniques. The memory may also store the charging module as described elsewhere herein.

The memory may also include one or more other modules . Non limiting examples of the other modules may include cellular communications circuitry a watchdog or other timer a wireless internet receiver secured data handling or communications resources and so forth.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other servers or computing devices network attached storage apparatus and so forth.

The datastore may store charging station data as described elsewhere herein. The datastore may also store various types of the digital content . The datastore may further store the historic usage data or one or more power profiles as respectively described elsewhere herein. The datastore may further store other data . For example the other data may include one or more data structures that may be queried modified amended and so forth.

Block determines present and estimated battery levels and a charging time based on historic usage data of a computing device . For purposes of a present example the user is using the computing device such that electrical energy is being drawn from the rechargeable battery . The finder module monitors the present level of the rechargeable battery which for instance is 30 . The finder module also accesses historic usage data and determines that the user will likely want to operate the computing device for another five hours before connecting the computing device to recharge overnight.

The finder module further determines that the rechargeable battery likely requires a level of 65 in order to continue powering the computing device for the estimated five hour time span. Thus an estimated rechargeable battery level deficiency of 35 exits. Additionally the finder module estimates that thirty four minutes of charging time will raise the rechargeable battery from its present 30 level to the estimated 65 need level.

Block presents information regarding the rechargeable battery levels and the estimated charging time. In the present example the finder module causes a user interface to be presented on a display of the computing device . The user interface includes a battery display with a battery graph that graphically and textually depicts the present 30 level and the estimated need 65 level of the rechargeable battery . The battery display also includes time estimates depicting the estimated charging time of twenty three minutes. As such the user is now aware that the rechargeable battery probably has insufficient stored energy to power the computing device for the remainder of the anticipated usage period.

Block acquires by wireless signaling information regarding nearby charging stations . In the present example the finder module sends a request to the server seeking information regarding charging stations within accessible venues near to the present location of the computing device . The request may include a present geolocation for the computing device information regarding charging port requirements or other information germane to the charging of the computing device . The server responds by accessing the charging station data and selecting charging stations with a prescribed or default distance of the computing device such as three hundred feet. Such a distance may be set or selected by way of the range control . Information regarding three particular charging stations is then communicated from the server to the computing device by way of the wireless signals .

Block presents the information regarding the nearby charging stations . In the present example the user interface is updated adding the charging stations display including information regarding three particular charging stations located within respective accessible venues . Such information may include distances from the computing device to each of the charging stations numbers of charging ports and their availabilities additional goods or services that may be offered by the respective venues and so on.

Block sends by wireless signaling a request to reserve a charging port at a selected charging station . In the present example the user selects the charging station associated with the coffee shop venue and actuates a reservation requester device. The finder module responds to this user input and sends a request to a computing entity associated with the coffee shop requesting that one of the charging ports be reserved. The request may also include payment information or other data as needed so as to complete or validate the requested transaction.

Block presents information corresponding to a response to the request. In the present example the computing entity associated with the coffee shop validates the request to reserve a charging port and sends a corresponding verification back to the computing device by way of wireless signals . The user interface is updated accordingly and a reservation indicator depicted as a checkmark within a circle is presented adjacent to the reservation selector . The user is now aware that a charging port at the coffee shop has been reserved provided that they arrive within twenty minutes to claim it.

Block sends by wireless signaling an order for goods or services offered at a venue of the selected charging station . In the present example the user clicks or otherwise actuates a control corresponding to food and beverage orders offered by the coffee shop venue . A corresponding signal is sent to the computing entity associated with the coffee shop and a menu or other information is provided back to the computing device . The menu or related information may be presented as a different user interface for instance. The user may then select food items beverages or other items and transact an electronic purchase accordingly before arriving at the coffee shop . Other similar actions corresponding to an electronic marketplace may also be performed.

Block performs one or more actions regarding charging the battery of the computing device . In the present example the user proceeds to the coffee shop venue and locates the charging station there within. The user may communicate with an attendant or other personnel with respect to accessing and using the reserved charging port . The computing device is then coupled or suitable mated to the charging port and charging of the rechargeable battery begins. The user may then pickup and enjoy the food or beverage items they ordered in advance while waiting for the computing device to complete the charging process.

Block connects a computing device to a charging port . For purposes of a present example the user approaches the self service secure charging station . The user determines through visual inspection that the charging port is available for use. The user connects the computing device to an electrical connector docking feature or other aspect of the charging port . In another instance the user lays the computing device upon an inductive type charging pad of the charging port . Other coupling or connecting schemes may also be used. The result is that the computing device is now in electrical communication with the charging port .

Block receives a payment for use of the charging port . In the present example the user then communicates with the server by way of a user interface presented by the computing device . The user provides credit card information to the server and indicates that twenty five minutes of charging time are required. The server then communicates a verification of the payment back to the user device as well as verifying that charging port is to be used. In another instance the server may use a computing device identification number serial number user club membership code or other identifier so as to verify an access privilege of the user with respect to the corresponding charging station . Such identification information may also facilitate payment by later billing account charge or other mechanism in lieu of payment by credit card at the present time.

Block locks using a pager key a locking mechanism of the charging port and removes the pager key . In the present example the user closes a metallic cage or cover over the computing device such that a locking mechanism engages. The user then removes a pager key from a connector or the locking mechanism of the charging port . The charging port is now in a secured state such that the computing device is protected against walk away theft by an adverse party. The user may now depart from the SSSCS with confidence that the computing device is locked in place.

Block provides charging current to a battery of the computing device . In the present example electrical current is communicated through the charging port to the computing device such that a rechargeable battery begins to charge from a lesser energy storage level to a greater energy storage level. The server or other control system of the SSSCS is programmed to provide such charging current for twenty five minutes as purchased by the user .

Block downloads a digital content file to storage of the computing device . In the present example the server communicates advertising regarding services or items available from the SSSCS or other charging stations or operated as part of a commercial enterprise to the computing device . Such advertising is provided as digital content that is stored within non transitory storage media of the computing device . The advertising may be configured to present information on the display of the computing device based on present geographic location in accordance with a present level of the rechargeable battery and so forth.

Block receives using the pager key a wireless paging signal indicating that a charging of the computing device is complete. In the present example the pager key receives a wireless signal indicating that the twenty five minute charging process of the computing device is complete. The pager key then provides an audible or visible indication or both to that effect. The user is now aware that charging of the rechargeable battery of the computing device is done.

Block unlocks using the pager key the locking mechanism and retrieves the computing device . In the present example the user returns to the location of the SSSCS and returns the pager key to its connector or receiving point on the locking mechanism of the charging port . In response the locking mechanism unlocks and the metallic cage or cover may be opened such that the computing device may be removed. The user retrieves the computing device and departs from the SSSCS .

Block measures a present battery level within a computing device . For purposes of a present example the finder module measures a present level of 22 for the rechargeable battery which provides operating energy to the computing device . In one instance the finder module uses electronic circuitry or other resources to measure the rechargeable battery level. In another instance the finder module receives information or data corresponding to the rechargeable battery level from power management resources or other aspects of the computing device .

Block accesses one or more power profiles corresponding to the computing device . In the present example the finder module accesses power profiles within the computing device corresponding to two respective operations that the user is expected to perform. For instance power profiles describing power consumption for two hours of movie viewing and forty five minutes of handling e mail messages are selected. The finder module further determines that 4 hours of operation have already elapsed for the present day with an estimated remaining operating period of 2.75 hours.

Block estimates a battery level requirement based on the present battery level and the power profiles . In the present example the finder module uses the power profiles to further estimate that a rechargeable battery level of 65 is likely required to provide sufficient power the remaining operating hours expectation of 2.75 hours. Thus an estimated battery level shortfall exists of 65 22 43 . That is the finder module estimates that the rechargeable battery must be charged so as to add 43 to the present level of 22 .

Block estimates a time to recharge the battery to the needed battery level. In the present example the finder module uses the power profiles once again to estimate that a charging time of thirty seven minutes is likely required to add the estimated 43 of level to the rechargeable battery .

Block presents information regarding the battery level and charging time values and estimates. In the present example the finder module causes a user interface to appear on the display of the computing device . The user interface may include a battery display including a battery graph or other indicia of the present battery level of 22 and the estimated required battery level of 65 . The user interface may also include time estimates indicative of the thirty seven minutes of charging time estimated to raise the recharge battery to the 65 level. The user is now aware of the need to recharge the computing device in order to continue operating through the remainder of the estimated workday.

Block connects an accessory device to a charging port . For purposes of a present example the user couples the accessory device to a charging port . The connection may be made using a USB protocol cable and connector or by way of another suitable cabling or connection arrangement. The accessory device is now in electrical communication with the charging port .

Block begins charging the battery or batteries of the accessory device . In the present example charging power is provided from the charging port to the accessory device . In turn the operating module functions to regulate or control the charging of the battery s using the charging power .

Block connects a first and a second load device to the accessory device . In the present example the user connects the computing device and the smart phone to the accessory device wherein the computing device and the smart phone define first and second load devices respectively. USB or other cabling or connector types may be used to make the respective connections. Thus the computing device and the smart phone are connected in electrical communication with the accessory device .

Block acquires respective charging parameters from the first and second load devices . In the present example the accessory device receives charging parameter information such as voltage and current values from the management module of the computing device by way of the power and data signaling. The smart phone communicates charging parameters to the management module by way of the wireless signals and the computing device then relays these parameters to the accessory device by way of the power and data signaling. The operating module receives these respective charging parameters accordingly. The wireless signals may be in accordance with Wi Fi Bluetooth or another suitable protocol.

Block provides charging currents to the first and second load devices in accordance with the parameters. In the present example the accessory device provides electrical energy to the computing device by way of the power and data signaling and the battery of the computing device begins to charge. In turn the accessory device provides electrical energy to the smart phone by way of the power signaling and a battery or energy storage device of the smart phone begins to charge accordingly. The operating module may control voltage or current characteristics or both of the two respective electrical energy feeds to the computing device and the smart phone . Alternatively resources of the computing device or the smart phone respectively may regulate or limit such charging actions.

Block acquires respective battery levels from the accessory device and the first and second load devices . In the present example the management module queries the accessory device for a present level value of its battery using the power and data signaling. The computing device also queries the smart phone for a present battery level value using the wireless signals . The accessory device and the smart phone communicate their respective battery levels to the management module . The management module also acquires a present level of the battery of the computing device from circuitry or resources internal thereto.

Block estimates respective operating times for the first and second load devices . In the present example the management module estimates operating or run times for the computing device and the smart phone respectively based on the respective battery levels of these load devices and the accessory device . Specifically the management module historic usage data or one or more power profiles or both to estimate or predict energy consumption quantities for the computing device and the smart phone respectively.

Such energy consumption estimates may then be used along with the respective present battery levels to estimate operating times for the computing device . Such estimates may be in terms of minutes hours and minutes seconds or other suitable units. The result is that the management module estimates how long the computing device and the smart phone respectively may be used by way of energy stored within their internal batteries and by way of the energy stored within the accessory device . Estimated total operating times for the computing device and the smart phone may also be determined wherein a particular total operating time is based on stored energy of the particular load device plus stored energy of the accessory device . Thus an estimated total operating time is based in part on energy that may be transferred from the accessory device to a particular load device .

Block presents using one of the load devices information based on the battery levels and the operating times. In the present example the management module of the computing device presents displayed data using a display . The displayed data may include the battery levels of the accessory device the computing device or the smart phone or any combination of or all of these. The displayed data may also include the respective estimated operating times which may be presented in minutes hours and minutes and so on. Other varying or related information may also be presented. In this way the user is apprised of the likely operating times for the computing device and the smart phone respectively prior to or during business travel at the onset of a workday or other meaningful time period and so forth. Task management anticipation of recharging periods and other planning may be performed by the user in view of the information provided by the displayed data .

As described above estimates regarding levels of rechargeable battery or other energy storage devices within computing devices or other equipment may be determined and presented to a user. Estimated charging times for such batteries or energy storage devices may also be presented. Stored information or information available through a wireless network may be accessed and used to identify or locate charging stations provided within accessible venues which may be open to the public or to the particular user that are near to the present location of the computing device. A user may then select a suitable venue for recharging the battery or batteries within their computing device based on the presented information. Additionally a reservation for such a charging station may be made or items or services may be ordered in advance of arriving at a corresponding selected venue.

Those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that certain steps or operations illustrated in the figures above can be eliminated or taken in an alternate order. Moreover the methods described above may be implemented as one or more software programs for a computer system and are encoded in a computer readable storage medium as instructions executable on one or more processors.

Embodiments may be provided as a computer program product including a non transitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions in compressed or uncompressed form that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes or methods described herein. The computer readable storage medium can be any one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium and so forth. For example the computer readable storage media may include but is not limited to hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of physical media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Further embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a transitory machine readable signal in compressed or uncompressed form . Examples of machine readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system or machine hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals transferred by one or more networks. For example the transitory machine readable signal may comprise transmission of software by the Internet.

Separate instances of these programs can be executed on or distributed across separate computer systems. Thus although certain steps have been described as being performed by certain devices software programs processes or entities this need not be the case and a variety of alternative implementations will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally those having ordinary skill in the art readily recognize that the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of devices environments and situations. Although the present disclosure is written with respect to specific embodiments and implementations various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

