---

title: System for classification code selection
abstract: A system for classification code selection is provided. In some embodiments, the system receives a geographic location indicator associated with a plurality of geographic location-based rules stored in a database. The system monitors a user input interface of an interactive user display for a user input string that includes a minimum number of characters. A suggestion request may be generated to retrieve a data set from the database that matches the geographic location indicator and the user input string based on determining that the user input string includes at least the minimum number of characters. The data set received in response to the suggestion request may be formatted as a list including one or more entries, where each of the entries has a numeric classification code and a corresponding description. The list may be output on the interactive user display for selection and further processing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09626081&OS=09626081&RS=09626081
owner: THE TRAVELERS INDEMNITY COMPANY
number: 09626081
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140519
---
In industries such as banking finance and insurance proper classification of data is critical to comply with a number of regulations that can vary based on geographic location and may be further complicated by the assignment of different classification codes for similar data depending upon geographic location. For example in the insurance industry workers compensation classification codes can be three or four digits as assigned by the National Council on Compensation Insurance NCCI or state rating bureaus. In the context of workers compensation insurance over 700 unique classification codes exist which serve as the basis for pricing and underwriting of workers compensation insurance policies. The classification codes help to differentiate between the various job duties or scope of work performed by employees.

Classification codes that are regulated by industry and geographic location are subject to change as time passes. Regulating bodies need not coordinate updates relative to each other leading to any number of changes at any time throughout the year. The highly regulated yet dynamic nature of classification codes can make it challenging for professionals to stay current on exact numeric codes and associated definitions. This can result in a time consuming process of frequently researching locating and identifying proper classification codes using a number of industry sites and or publications. As one example when creating a new insurance policy an insurance professional can seek out and manually input the proper classification codes when entering various attributes that describe risks and or operations of the policy applicant. For policies that span many job types and geographic locations the risk of error or misclassification increases where outdated classification codes can be used and free form manual data entry is performed.

When manual searches of various data sources are performed to determine classification codes knowledge of contents and formatting of the data sources may be required. For example when searching for a classification code by its associated description a keyword search may be performed to identify the associated description. However the keyword search may be ineffective if the user does not know exactly how the description is worded and thus may fail to accurately locate the correct classification code. Different descriptions can be assigned to the same classification code for different geographic locations. Moreover a single classification code can be assigned to multiple descriptions for the same geographic location. Accordingly several attempts may be needed to craft a search string that aligns with varying description definitions and formats in the data sources. This variability can result in additional time needed to populate forms that use classification codes as searches may be reformatted and repeated across various data sources to capture one or more desired classification codes.

According to an embodiment a system for classification code selection e.g. class code wizard is provided as part of a data entry and analysis system. The system may be used in gathering data from multiple sources as part of a data classification and selection process. As one example the class code wizard can be used as part of an insurance rate quote issue system that gathers policy information performs underwriting and eligibility analysis collects geographic location data determines one or more associated classification codes and generates a quotation for an insurance policy. In some insurance product lines common guidelines are required for all insurers providing coverage. For instance state specific guidelines for underwriting workers compensation insurance are promulgated so that each insurer provides common coverage. In workers compensation insurance a complex classification scheme is typically used that classifies workers based on scope of work performed to define appropriate policy pricing and benefits. For companies that operate in numerous geographic locations that cross state lines and employ different types of workers the process of accurately classifying all of the workers in all of the locations can be cumbersome.

In an exemplary embodiment a class code wizard is provided that simplifies a classification process by integrating numerous geographic location based rules with a search interface which supports rapid look up operations based on user input of a minimum number of characters to identify potential exact matches and synonym matches. The classification process can be used for insurance quotation generation financial systems legal services banking services medical record management shipping classification economic data classification or any such application where geographic location based rules are linked to classification codes. For example in an application analyzing economic data different countries or regions may use separate industrial classification systems with different but similar coding systems such as the North American Industry Classification System the United Kingdom Standard Industrial Classification of Economic Activities Australian and New Zealand Standard Industrial Classification and the like. Accordingly although a detailed example is described herein in reference to a workers compensation class code wizard the class code wizard may be generally applicable to any number of industry or governmental systems beyond insurance.

Turning now to a system is depicted upon which an interactive classification code selection process may be implemented. The system includes a data entry and analysis system which may include an application server coupled to a mediation layer gateway . A user system can be coupled to the application server and the mediation layer gateway . The mediation layer gateway is also coupled to a query server that accesses and indexes data in a data storage system . The data storage system can hold a database that may include a variety of data such as classification data application data as well as other data not depicted . In an exemplary embodiment the classification data can include data organized in one or more tables of records that may be selected as part of the interactive classification code selection process. The application data may include other data values to support an application program that uses the interactive classification code selection process. For example in an insurance quotation application the classification data may include mandated classification codes and associated data from a regulating authority while the application data can include applicant information pricing models underwriting guidelines and the like. A query processor may execute on the query server to retrieve selected records from the database based on a query from the application server the user system or other system.

The data entry and analysis system may access an external network via the mediation layer gateway and or one or more other firewalls or gateways not depicted . One or more remote servers can be accessed through the external network . Each remote server can include one or more remote applications and remote data . The external network can be a large scale global network such as the Internet. The remote data may be accessed by the user system for instance via a hyperlink. The remote data can also be used to update data in the database . In one embodiment the classification data is updated by the data entry and analysis system making requests to access the remote data and reformatting the remote data as needed to store in the classification data . In an alternate embodiment one of the remote applications with proper authentication can push updates from the remote data to the classification data and mark the data as updated.

The application server can source a number of application programs that may be executed by the application server the user system or in a distributed manner between the application server the user system and or other systems. The user system includes an interactive user display to display information and a user input interface that collects inputs from a user. The interactive user display can be generated by one or more of the applications on the application server and provides information and input options for the user input interface . For example the interactive user display can appear as a data entry template where the user input interface includes user modifiable fields to enter data values or make selections.

The mediation layer gateway can provide an enterprise service bus ESB that routes various communications and supports a number of protocols within the system . For example the mediation layer gateway may process Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP requests and responses relative to the application server Representational State Transfer REST requests and responses using Asynchronous JavaScript and extensible markup language XML AJAX relative to the user system Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP query requests and responses relative to the query server and any number of known protocols relative to the external network . A number of other protocols can be used throughout the system . For instance the application server and user system may support JavaServer Faces JSF Facelet requests and responses and the query server may access the data storage system using Open Database Connectivity ODBC .

In the example of each of the application server the mediation layer gateway the user system the query server the data storage system and the remote servers can include a processor e.g. a processing device such as one or more microprocessors one or more microcontrollers one or more digital signal processors that receives instructions e.g. from memory or like device executes those instructions and performs one or more processes defined by those instructions. Instructions may be embodied for example in one or more computer programs and or one or more scripts. In one example the data entry and analysis system executes computer instructions for implementing the exemplary processes described herein. Instructions that implement various process steps can be executed by different elements of the data entry and analysis system . For example user input on the user system can result in a request for data as a query that is processed by the query server . User inputs can also result in requests to the application server which may also result in another request for data as a query processed by the query server . Although depicted separately one or more of the application server the mediation layer gateway the user system the query server and the data storage system can be combined or further subdivided. In an embodiment the data entry and analysis system is implemented by an insurance company.

In some embodiments the application server may include one or more electronic and or computerized controller devices such as computer servers communicatively coupled to interface with the user system e.g. one or more client computers and or third party devices directly and or indirectly . According to some embodiments the application server may be located remote from the user system . The application server may also or alternatively include a plurality of electronic processing devices located at one or more various sites and or locations. In an exemplary embodiment the application server is a JBoss application server.

According to some embodiments the application server and or the user system may store and or execute specially programmed instructions to operate in accordance with one or more embodiments described in this disclosure. The application server and or the user system may for example execute one or more programs that perform geographic location based classification data selection.

The user system may be implemented using a general purpose computer executing one or more computer programs for carrying out processes described herein. In one embodiment the user system may be a personal computer e.g. a laptop desktop etc. a network server attached terminal e.g. a thin client operating within an internal network of the application server or a portable device e.g. a tablet computer personal digital assistant smart phone etc. . In an embodiment the user system is operated by an insurance professional such as a product manager broker or agent of an insurance company. It will be understood that while only a single user system is shown in there may be multiple user systems communicatively coupled to the application server and mediation layer gateway .

Various networks may be used to establish communication within the system such as a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a global network e.g. Internet a virtual private network VPN and an intranet. Communication within the system may be implemented using a wireless network or any kind of physical network implementation known in the art.

Information stored in the data storage system may be retrieved and manipulated via the query server based on requests from the application server or the user system for example. The data storage system may be implemented using a variety of devices for storing electronic information. It is understood that the data storage system may be implemented using memory contained in the query server or it may be a separate physical system as shown in . It will be understood that multiple storage devices may be employed in the data storage system . For example the storage devices of the data storage system may be dispersed across the system and each of the storage devices may be logically addressable as a consolidated data source across a distributed environment. In an embodiment the data storage system may include one or more third party data devices. According to some embodiments data may be stored by or provided via one or more optional third party data devices of system . A third party data device may comprise for example an external hard drive or flash drive connected to the system a remote third party computer system for storing and serving data e.g. claim data business data state insurance data for use in performing one or more functions described in this disclosure or a combination of such remote and or local data devices. In one embodiment one or more companies and or end users may subscribe to or otherwise purchase data e.g. demographic financial employment claim or other data from a third party and receive the data via the third party data device.

Each of the application server the mediation layer gateway the user system the query server the data storage system and the remote servers can include a local data storage device such as a memory device. A memory device also referred to herein as computer readable memory e.g. non transitory memory devices as opposed to transmission devices or media may generally store program instructions code and or modules that when executed by a processing device cause a particular machine to function in accordance with one or more embodiments described herein.

The applications of application server can include multiple application programs or sequences of instructions to implement processes as described herein. For example a data entry and analysis DEA application may include a sequence of executable instructions that enable a user to enter relevant information access associated application data perform analysis tasks such as determining eligibility initiate a classification process and provide results and reports. Although depicted as a single block in the DEA application can include a collection of modules routines functions scripts and the like to implement a data entry and analysis process. A class code wizard CCW application may also be provided to ensure that a correct classification code is selected upon which other data values depend. The CCW application can interface with the query processor to perform lookup and reporting of the classification data in combination with the DEA application . The query processor may provide rapid feedback to the CCW application by maintaining a number of indexes into the classification data which may include synonym definitions to support matching on similar terms when a search is initiated. The query processor or another process on the query server may include an automated process that periodically updates and indexes the database . The query processor can also support wildcard searches based on partial string matching to exact terms or similar terms based on synonym definitions. Although depicted separately the DEA application and the CCW application can be combined to form a single application in the applications .

According to the design pattern of the interactive user display and user input interface the user system can include one or more instances of a DEA interactive user display with a DEA user input interface that interacts with the DEA application . The DEA interactive user display may define one or more form templates to be populated with data obtained through the application server and or the query server as a Web browser based or stand alone application implementation. The DEA interactive user display and DEA user input interface may include a sequence of display screens and user interfaces to be presented at different points during progression of the process. For example different interactive interface views can be produced to enter specific data items respond to questions and output results.

Also according to the design pattern of the interactive user display and user input interface a CCW interactive user display and CCW user input interface can be defined separately or be included as part of the DEA interactive user display and DEA user input interface . The CCW interactive user display and CCW user input interface interacts with the CCW application according to one or more form templates populated with user data and data obtained through the application server and or the query server as a Web browser based or stand alone application implementation. Depending upon a search type performed the CCW interactive user display may present different classification code selection options that can be selected using the CCW user input interface .

One example of a general sequence of interactions that can be initiated by a user in the system begins with user input received on the user input interface which may be the DEA user input interface or CCW user input interface for instance from a keyboard and or mouse pointer device. When a request such as a search request is received at the user system the search request may be forwarded to the mediation layer gateway using an AJAX interface as a REST based request. In response the mediation layer gateway can generate a query request for the query server as an HTTP query request. The query processor performs a query process to find potential matches to the query request in the data storage system and a response may be provided as an HTTP query response from the query server to the mediation layer gateway . Subsequently the mediation layer gateway can make the query response available to be obtained by an AJAX interface as a REST based response for the user system . With regard to the application server a request from a client can be obtained such as a facelet request obtained by the application server from the user system . The request can be sent from the application server to the mediation layer gateway as a SOAP based request using a JAX web service. Again the mediation layer gateway can use an HTTP query request and an HTTP query response in communicating with the query server . A response can be obtained from the mediation layer gateway by the application server as a SOAP based response using a JAX web service. The application server can provide the facelet response to the user system .

In an exemplary embodiment in terms of hardware architecture as shown in the computer includes a processing device and a memory device coupled to a memory controller and an input output controller . The input output controller can be for example but not limited to one or more buses or other wired or wireless connections as is known in the art. The input output controller may have additional elements which are omitted for simplicity such as controllers buffers caches drivers repeaters and receivers to enable communications. Further the computer may include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications among the aforementioned components.

In an exemplary embodiment a conventional keyboard and mouse or similar devices can be coupled to the input output controller . Alternatively input may be received via a touch sensitive or motion sensitive interface not depicted . The computer can further include a display controller coupled to a display .

The processing device is a hardware device for executing software particularly software stored in secondary storage or memory device . The processing device can be any custom made or commercially available computer processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the computer a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macro processor or generally any device for executing instructions.

The memory device can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory programmable read only memory PROM tape compact disc read only memory CD ROM flash drive disk hard disk drive diskette cartridge cassette or the like etc. . Moreover the memory device may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Accordingly the memory device is an example of a tangible computer readable storage medium upon which instructions executable by the processing device may be embodied as a computer program product. The memory device can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processing device .

The instructions in memory device may include one or more separate programs each of which comprises an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. In the example of the instructions in the memory device include a suitable operating system OS and program instructions . The operating system essentially controls the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services. When the computer is in operation the processing device is configured to execute instructions stored within the memory device to communicate data to and from the memory device and to generally control operations of the computer pursuant to the instructions. Examples of program instructions can include instructions to implement the DEA interactive user display the DEA user input interface the CCW interactive user display and or the CCW user input interface of where the system is an embodiment of the user system of . Further examples of the program instructions can include instructions to implement the DEA application and CCW application of the query processor of and the remote applications of .

The computer of also includes a network interface that can establish communication channels with one or more other computer systems via one or more network links. The network interface can support wired and or wireless communication protocols known in the art. For example when embodied in the user system of the network interface can establish communication channels with the application server and the mediation layer gateway of .

Turning now to an example of a class code table is depicted as may be included in the classification data of . The class code table represents a collection of data values that can be searched for instance based on a query request from the CCW application via the CCW user input interface of . The class code table may be manually populated based on published data sources or extracted from the remote data of . In the example of the class code table is formatted for workers compensation insurance job code classification and includes a table identifier a class code a version number a location code an industry code an effective date an expiration date and a description . The table identifier may serve as an index to a particular entry or row in the class code table . The class code can be a numerical code as defined by a regulating body such as the National Council on Compensation Insurance NCCI or state rating bureaus. Values of the class code are defined as separate codes that differentiate between various job duties or scope of work performed by workers. The version number may indicate a class code definition version that defines a mapping between the class code and associated wording in the description for the geographic location identified in the location code .

The location code can be a text field such as a two digit state code or a numeric code used to map to a location code formatted with any number of characters. For example the location code could be formatted to include a value of CT for the state of Connecticut or a number that serves as an index to a separate table not depicted e.g. numeric code 07 mapping to Connecticut . The industry code can be an industry group code that aligns with definitions generated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC for example. The class codes are effective on specific dates and expire on a specific date as defined by the effective date and expiration date respectively. The description may be defined by the NCCI or state rating bureau that generated the class code . Specific wording of each description can vary for similar class codes depending upon the location code as various state rating bureaus associated with different locations can generate different wording for the description . The combination of the class code version number location code industry code effective date expiration date and description may be collectively referred to as geographic location based rules for quoting and issuing insurance policies.

The user input may be received on the user input interface to add a new class to edit or view or to delete a class . A user selection can highlight a particular classification record to edit or view . In the example of the first classification record is selected for editing. An editor portion of the interactive user display may appear upon the selection of edit or view as depicted in . Examples of the types of data that can be viewed input or updated in a user input interface of the editor portion of the interactive user display include modifiable versions of the fields of including a geographic location a location number a numeric classification code a description a payroll a number of full time employees a number of part time employees a federal e.g. USL H coverage field and a voluntary compensation field . Modification of some fields may be constrained by various rules. For example the geographic location can be constrained as a pull down input to select a valid option from a list. The geographic location presented in the editor portion may be displayed in a longer format while the geographic location of may represent an abbreviated format of the same information. The location number may be constrained to avoid conflicts with other values of the location number of that have already been defined. The numeric classification code and description are also constrained such that they align with geographic location based rules associated with the geographic location . The payroll may be constrained by various minimum and maximum payroll rules where the payroll is used in defining the premium basis of .

A number of assistance tools and hyperlinks may be defined to assist in understanding how to populate each of the fields . In an exemplary embodiment a class code look up can trigger the CCW application of to assist in populating the numeric classification code and description according to geographic location based rules such as geographic location based rules of associated with the geographic location . An Add to List button may be selected by a user to save any updates to data in fields while a Cancel button can prevent any changes to data in the fields from being saved.

As a further example depicts an example of an interactive user display and user input interface for classification searching as an example of the CCW interactive user display and CCW user input interface of . The interactive user display may be displayed on a user system of based on a selection of the class code look up of . Similar to the interactive user display of the interactive user display may include a geographic location indicator as a static value received based on the geographic location of . The user input interface can also include a search type selection field and keyword input field where the search type selection field is an expanded version of the search type selection field of and may be aligned with a different data source. For instance options depicted in the search type selection field of may align with the class code table of while options depicted in the search type selection field of may align with the class code table of .

In addition to keyword based searches and industry based searches the example of supports other code search types to search other code data beyond description and industry data. Examples of other code search types include a SIC code search a NAIC code search and a class code search . For instance upon selecting the SIC code search data entered at the keyword input field can be searched against the SIC code of . Similarly upon selecting the NAIC code search data entered at the keyword input field can be searched against the NAIC code of . Upon selecting the class code search data entered at the keyword input field can be searched against the class code of .

As a user enters characters the user input interface of the interactive user display can monitor for a minimum number of characters in the user input string . Once a user has entered a minimum number of characters e.g. three or more characters the suggestion request can be generated and sent to the query processor of without additional user action i.e. the Ok button of need not be selected to trigger a search. In one embodiment time between keystrokes may be used to determine when a partially formed string should be sent as the suggestion request. For example character input of the user input string can be monitored and a user pause is detected after each keystroke of the character input above the minimum number of characters. The suggestion request can be generated based on determining that the user pause is greater than a timeout period.

The query processor of can determine a partial match or a synonym match of the user input string and retrieve a corresponding data set from the database of . The query processor of may also perform filtering of the data set for example using the effective date and expiration date of to ensure that the data set will be valid for a target date e.g. the current date or a future date as specified in the effective date and or the expiration date of . The data set received from the query processor of may be formatted as a list including one or more entries . Each of the entries includes a numeric classification code and a corresponding description . The list is output on the interactive user display as one or more user selectable instances of the one or more entries . The list may be formatted in a sorted order such that entries that were scored as closer matches to the suggestion request are presented at a higher position in the list . Upon a selection of one of the entries a corresponding classification record such as classification record of that is active for editing in is populated with a selected instance of the numeric classification code and corresponding description . Therefore the numeric classification code of may be set to the numeric classification code and the description of may be set to the description .

Turning now to a process flow is depicted according to an embodiment. The process flow includes a number of steps that may be performed in the depicted sequence or in an alternate sequence. The process flow may be performed by the system of . In one embodiment the process flow is performed by the application server of . In another embodiment the process flow is performed by the user system of .

At step a geographic location indicator is received where the geographic location indicator is associated with a plurality of geographic location based rules stored in a database. The geographic location indicator may be the geographic location indicator of received from a classification code interface such as the editor portion of the interactive user display of and or the insured information of operable to create a plurality of classification records of in preparation of an insurance policy for example. The geographic location based rules may be the geographic location based rules of stored in database of . The geographic location indicator may be displayed on the interactive user display of .

At step a user input interface of an interactive user display is monitored for a user input string. As depicted in the example of the user input string may be for a keyword input field of the user input interface of the interactive user display . Alternatively the user input string can be for the desired industry code of . As a further alternative the user input string can be the user input string of for other code search types such as a SIC code search a NAIC code search or a class code search of .

At step it is determined whether the user input string includes at least a minimum number of characters. For example step may determine whether the user input string of includes at least three characters. A larger number of minimum characters can increase search result accuracy as the resulting pool of potential matching results is reduced. If the minimum number of characters is not yet received the process flow returns to step otherwise the process flow advances to step . Prior to advancing to step further monitoring of the user input interface of the interactive user display of may be performed to detect pauses between character input of the user input string . The process flow may advance to step based on determining that a duration of a user pause after a keystroke is greater than a timeout period.

At step a suggestion request is generated to retrieve a data set from the geographic location based rules stored in the database that match the geographic location indicator and the user input string. A suggestion request may be a query string formatted for interpretation by the query processor of to retrieve one or more records as a data set from the geographic location based rules of stored in the database of . The suggestion request may include the geographic location indicator of and the user input string of . The geographic location indicator as part of the suggestion request can be provided using a reduced size code corresponding to a regulatory jurisdiction such that it aligns in formatting with the location code of .

At step it is determined whether a search type to be performed is an industry search. For example the search type selection field of may include a search type indicator for a keyword search or an industry search. If the search type is an industry search the process flow advances to step as further described in reference to . Otherwise the process flow advances to step of .

At step it is determined whether the search type to be performed is an other code search type such as the other code search types of including a SIC code search a NAIC code search or a class code search . If the search type is one of the other code search types of a search of other code data associated with the geographic location indicator in the database is initiated as the suggestion request at step . For example the SIC code search can result in a search of the SIC code of the NAIC code search can result in a search of the NAIC code of and the class code search can result in a search of the class code of . If the search type is not one of the other code search types of at step then the process flow advances to step .

At step a keyword search is initiated of description data associated with the geographic location indicator in the database as the suggestion request. An exact or synonym match may be attempted by the query processor of of the user input string of and the description of to also locate the corresponding class code of in the database of .

Upon completion of step step or step the process flow advances to step as depicted on . At step a data set is received in response to the suggestion request. The query processor of may send results of the suggestion request back through the mediation layer gateway of as a data set.

At step the data set is formatted as a list including one or more entries such as list of entries of . Each of the entries can include a numeric classification code and a corresponding description . As previously described various filters can be used to check and adjust the data set. For example the data set can be filtered by the effective date and or the expiration date of . In an exemplary embodiment the suggestion request is also based on one or more of the effective date and the expiration date of . By including either or both of the effective date and the expiration date of in the suggestion request filtering of data with respect to the effective date and or the expiration date of can be performed by the query processor of to further select and limit the data returned particularly where values in the database of change over time. In one embodiment only the effective date of is sent in the suggestion request and the effective date is range checked against the effective date and the expiration date of to ensure that only valid entries are returned with respect to date values.

At step the list is output on the interactive user display as one or more user selectable instances of the one or more entries such as list on interactive user display of . The list may be formatted in a sorted order such that entries including closer matches to the suggestion request are presented at a higher position in the list . The process flow may be repeated in whole or in part to perform additional searches. For example if a user desires to change the search criteria and search again the process flow can return to step . Once a numeric classification code and a corresponding description are selected they can be provided to populate the numeric classification code and the description of upon selecting the Ok button of . The geographic location indicator of may define a regulatory jurisdiction for workers compensation insurance coverage and the numeric classification code and the corresponding description of each of the entries of can define classifications for workers compensation insurance according to predefined rules of the regulatory jurisdiction.

At step a first option to perform a keyword search is provided based on the desired industry code of in combination with searching description of data associated with the geographic location indicator in the database of . At step a second option is provided to retrieve all numeric classification codes and corresponding descriptions associated with the desired industry code and the geographic location indicator as the data set for instance by selecting get all class codes . The process flow returns to process flow of .

It will be appreciated that aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product and may take the form of a hardware embodiment a software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or a combination thereof. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

One or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In one aspect the computer readable storage medium may be a tangible medium containing or storing a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer readable medium may contain program code embodied thereon which may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In addition computer program code for carrying out operations for implementing aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server.

It will be appreciated that aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block or step of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks or steps in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In addition some embodiments described herein are associated with an indication . As used herein the term indication may be used to refer to any indicia and or other information indicative of or associated with a subject item entity and or other object and or idea. As used herein the phrases information indicative of and indicia may be used to refer to any information that represents describes and or is otherwise associated with a related entity subject or object. Indicia of information may include for example a code a reference a link a signal an identifier and or any combination thereof and or any other informative representation associated with the information. In some embodiments indicia of information or indicative of the information may be or include the information itself and or any portion or component of the information. In some embodiments an indication may include a request a solicitation a broadcast and or any other form of information gathering and or dissemination.

Numerous embodiments are described in this patent application and are presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not and are not intended to be limiting in any sense. The presently disclosed invention s are widely applicable to numerous embodiments as is readily apparent from the disclosure. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the disclosed invention s may be practiced with various modifications and alterations such as structural logical software and electrical modifications. Although particular features of the disclosed invention s may be described with reference to one or more particular embodiments and or drawings it should be understood that such features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or drawings with reference to which they are described unless expressly specified otherwise.

Devices that are in communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. On the contrary such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary or desirable and may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example a machine in communication with another machine via the Internet may not transmit data to the other machine for weeks at a time. In addition devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.

A description of an embodiment with several components or features does not imply that all or even any of such components and or features are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the present invention s . Unless otherwise specified explicitly no component and or feature is essential or required.

Further although process steps algorithms or the like may be described in a sequential order such processes may be configured to work in different orders. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of processes described herein may be performed in any order practical. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non simultaneously e.g. because one step is described after the other step . Moreover the illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to the invention and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred.

 Determining something can be performed in a variety of manners and therefore the term determining and like terms includes calculating computing deriving looking up e.g. in a table database or data structure ascertaining and the like.

It will be readily apparent that the various methods and algorithms described herein may be implemented by e.g. appropriately and or specially programmed general purpose computers and or computing devices. Typically a processor e.g. one or more microprocessors will receive instructions from a memory or like device and execute those instructions thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions. Further programs that implement such methods and algorithms may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media e.g. computer readable media in a number of manners. In some embodiments hard wired circuitry or custom hardware may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of the processes of various embodiments. Thus embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.

A processor generally means any one or more microprocessors CPU devices computing devices microcontrollers digital signal processors or like devices as further described herein.

The term computer readable medium refers to any medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions or other information that may be read by a computer a processor or a like device. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include DRAM which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves light waves and electromagnetic emissions such as those generated during RF and IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

The term computer readable memory may generally refer to a subset and or class of computer readable medium that does not include transmission media such as waveforms carrier waves electromagnetic emissions etc. Computer readable memory may typically include physical media upon which data e.g. instructions or other information are stored such as optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory DRAM a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge computer hard drives backup tapes Universal Serial Bus USB memory devices and the like.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying data including sequences of instructions to a processor. For example sequences of instruction i may be delivered from RAM to a processor ii may be carried over a wireless transmission medium and or iii may be formatted according to numerous formats standards or protocols such as Bluetooth TDMA CDMA 3G.

Where databases are described it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that i alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed and ii other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative arrangements for stored representations of information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides those suggested by e.g. tables illustrated in drawings or elsewhere. Similarly any illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary information only one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those described herein. Further despite any depiction of the databases as tables other formats including relational databases object based models and or distributed databases could be used to store and manipulate the data types described herein. Likewise object methods or behaviors of a database can be used to implement various processes such as the described herein. In addition the databases may in a known manner be stored locally or remotely from a device that accesses data in such a database.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one more other features integers steps operations element components and or groups thereof.

