---

title: Cherry tree named ‘Glencrest’
abstract: The present invention relates to a cherry tree, , and more particularly to a new and distinct variety broadly characterized by a medium size, moderately vigorous, hardy, self-unfruitful, productive and regular bearing tree. The fruit matures under the ecological conditions described in mid-May, with first picking on May 10, 2014. The fruit is uniformly medium in size, sweet in flavor, oblate in shape, fairly freestone in type, firm in texture, red in flesh color, very dark red in skin color, and it has a short but strongly attached stem. The variety is very useful to cross pollinate ‘Glenred’ (U.S. Plant Pat. No. 12,859).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=PP027369&OS=PP027369&RS=PP027369
owner: 
number: PP027369
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141215
---
In a continuing effort to improve the quality of shipping fruits we the inventors typically hybridize a large number of peach nectarine plum apricot and cherry seedlings each year. We also grow a smaller number of open pollinated seeds of each of these fruits usually to capture recessive traits. The present invention relates to a new and distinct variety of cherry tree which has been denominated varietally as Glencrest .

During a typical blooming season we isolate as seed parents individual cherry trees by covering them with screen houses. A hive of bees is placed inside each such house and bouquets to provide pollen from different cherry trees are placed in buckets near the trees approximately every two days for the duration of the bloom. During 2002 one such house containing Glenred U.S. Plant Pat. No. 12 859 cherry tree was crossed by us in this manner. To pollinate this cherry we selected bouquets from several sources of cherry trees without keeping specific written details. Upon reaching maturity the fruit from this cherry tree was harvested and the seeds were removed cracked stratified and germinated as a group with the label Glenred House . They were grown as seedlings on their own root in our greenhouse and upon reaching dormancy transplanted to a cultivated area of our experimental orchard located near Le Grand Calif. in Merced County San Joaquin Valley . During the summer of 2008 the claimed variety was selected by us as a single tree from the group of seedlings described above. Subsequent to origination of the present variety of cherry tree we asexually reproduced it by budding and grafting in the experimental orchard described above and such reproductions were true to the original tree in all respects. The reproduction of the variety included the use of Colt unpatented rootstock upon which the present variety was compatible and true to type.

The present variety is most similar to its seed parent Glenred U.S. Plant Pat. No. 12 859 cherry by being self unfruitful by having reniform glands by being productive and by producing fruit that is dark red in skin color red in flesh color oblate in shape firm sweet and fairly crack resistant but is distinguished therefrom by blooming about four days later by possessing different s alleles to make it useful as a cross pollinator and by producing cherries that are somewhat smaller in size that ripen about two days later that are more heat tolerant and that have a shorter stem that is more firmly attached to the fruit.

The present variety is also similar to Glenrock U.S. Plant Pat. No. 15 512 cherry by being self unfruitful by having reniform glands by blooming in mid March by being productive and by producing fruit that is dark red in skin color partially red in flesh color oblate in shape firm sweet fairly freestone and fairly crack resistant but is distinguished therefrom by producing cherries that have a shorter stem and that ripen about ten day earlier.

In summary the present cherry variety is characterized by a medium size moderately vigorous hardy self unfruitful productive and regular bearing tree. The fruit matures under the ecological conditions described in mid May with first picking on May 10 2014. The fruit is uniformly medium in size sweet in flavor oblate in shape fairly freestone in type firm in texture red in flesh color very dark red in skin color and it has a short but strongly attached stem. The variety is very useful to cross pollinate Glenred U.S. Plant Pat. No. 12 859 .

Referring now more specifically to the pomological characteristics of this new and distinct variety of cherry tree the following has been observed under the ecological conditions prevailing near Le Grand Merced County San Joaquin Valley Calif. and was developed at the state of firm ripe on May 14 2014 on the original tree during its twelfth growing season. All major color code designations are by reference to the Inter Society Color Council National Bureau of Standards. Common color names are also used occasionally.

It is to be noted that 2014 was an abnormal year with drought conditions existing in California. The unusually clear warm and dry weather in January led to a very low amount of acquired chilling units an earlier than normal blooming season and an earlier than normal ripening season for the entire spring and summer.

Although the new variety of cherry tree possesses the described characteristics under the ecological conditions at Le Grand Calif. in the central part of the San Joaquin Valley it is to be expected that variations in these characteristics may occur when farmed in areas with different climatic conditions different soil types and or varying cultural practices.

