---

title: Method and television for use in a multimedia system
abstract: A multimedia server receives a plurality of programs of a multimedia source. The multimedia server includes a tuning module to receive the plurality of programs and to select a set of programs from the plurality of programs based on a set of program select commands that is derived from select requests. A program mixer mixes the set of programs into a stream of program data. One or more transceiving modules transmit the stream of program data on to corresponding communication paths and receive the select requests. A client module produces the select requests for one or more clients. The client module includes a selection module to produce at least one of the select requests. A network interface controller transmits at least one of select requests to the multimedia server and receives the stream of program data via the communication path or paths in response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09456248&OS=09456248&RS=09456248
owner: VIXS SYSTEMS, INC.
number: 09456248
owner_city: Toronto
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20141015
---
The present U.S. Utility patent application claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 120 as a continuation of U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 12 246 375 entitled MULTIMEDIA SYSTEM AND SERVER AND METHODS FOR USE THEREWITH filed Oct. 6 2008 which is a continuation of U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 09 865 136 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CHANNEL MIXING IN A MULTIMEDIA SYSTEM filed May 24 2001 abandoned both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and made part of the present U.S. Utility patent application for all purposes.

U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 09 864 524 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR A MULTIMEDIA SYSTEM filed on May 24 2001 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 099 951 on Aug. 29 2006 

U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 09 864 602 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS OF MULTIPLEXING A PLURALITY OF CHANNELS IN A MULTIMEDIA SYSTEM filed on May 24 2001 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 200 855 on Apr. 3 2007 

U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 09 864 783 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ISOLATING A CHANNEL OF INTEREST FROM A SET OF CHANNELS IN A MULTIMEDIA SYSTEM filed May 24 2001 abandoned 

U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 11 270 281 entitled CHANNEL SELECTION IN A MULTIMEDIA SYSTEM filed Nov. 9 2005 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 291 457 on Oct. 16 2012 

U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 13 606 249 entitled CHANNEL SELECTION IN A MULTIMEDIA SYSTEM filed Sep. 7 2012 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 197 435 on Nov. 24 2015 

U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 09 864 115 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR HUB BASED NETWORK ACCESS VIA A MULTIMEDIA SYSTEM filed May 24 2001 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 301 900 on Nov. 27 2007 and

U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 09 864 476 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MANAGING RESOURCES IN A MULTIMEDIA SYSTEM filed May 24 2001 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 617 515 on Nov. 10 2009.

This invention relates generally to communication systems and more particularly to in home local area networking.

Communication systems are known to convey data from one entity to another. The data may be audio data video data and or text data. In such communication systems the data is transmitted via one or more transmission mediums e.g. radio frequencies coaxial cable twisted pair copper wire fiber optic cabling et cetera in accordance with one or more data transmission protocols. The distance over which the data traverses within a communication system may be inches feet miles tens of miles hundreds of miles thousands of miles et cetera.

As is also known communication systems have two basic configurations wide area networks WAN and local area networks LAN . In addition WAN and or LAN communication systems may use a variety of transmission types including broadcast transmissions asymmetrical transmissions and symmetrical transmissions. In a broadcast communication system a network hub transmits data to a plurality of users with little or no data being transmitted from the users to the network hub. Examples of broadcast communication systems include radio systems NTSC national television standards committee television systems e.g. regular TV high definition television systems cable systems and satellite systems. In each of these broadcast communication systems a network hub e.g. radio station television station et cetera transmits a broadcast signal. Any user within range of the broadcast signal and who has an appropriate receiver e.g. radio television et cetera can receive the broadcast signal. Such broadcast systems employ a particular data transmission protocol such as amplitude modulation frequency modulation ultra high frequency very high frequency et cetera.

Asymmetrical communication systems transmit more data in one direction than in another i.e. one entity transmits to others more than it receives data from each of the other entities . An example of an asymmetrical communication system is the Internet where web servers transmit substantially more data than they receive from any one user. The Internet uses TCP IP as its data transmission protocol while a variety of physical layer data transmission protocols may be used to access the Internet. Such physical layer data transmission protocols include asynchronous transfer mode ATM frame relay integrated services digital network ISDN digital subscriber loop DSL and all derivatives thereof and multiple packet label switching MPLS . Such asymmetrical communication systems may be wide area networks e.g. the Internet or local area networks e.g. local server based system .

Symmetrical communication systems include a plurality of users where the data flow between any of the users could be equal. Examples of symmetrical communication systems include public switch telephone network PSTN local computer networks cellular telephone systems intercom systems private branch exchanges PBX et cetera. Such symmetrical communication systems use at least one data transmission protocol. For example a computer network may utilize any one of the Ethernet standards.

In any type of communication system a user must have the appropriate receiving and possibly transmitting equipment to independently access the communication system. For example a user of a satellite television system must have a satellite receiver and a television to receive satellite broadcast. If another television is to independently access the satellite broadcast it needs its own satellite receiver. The same is true for NTSC broadcast cable broadcast et cetera although currently most televisions include an NTSC tuner and or some form of cable tuner.

With the number of households having multiple television sets increasing and many users wanting the latest and greatest video viewing services. As such many households have multiple satellite receivers cable set top boxes modems et cetera. As is further known dependent multiple access to satellite broadcasts may be achieved by linking slave televisions to a master television. The master television has full control of and independent access to the satellite receiver while the slave televisions receive whatever channel has been selected by the master.

For in home Internet access each computer or Internet device has its own Internet connection. As such each computer or Internet device includes a modem. As an alternative to each computer having its modem an in home local area network may be used to provide Internet access. In such an in home local area network each computer or Internet device includes a network card to access a server. The server provides the coupling to the Internet. Currently the cost of a network card is at least as expensive as a 56K modem thus there is no cost savings with such an in home local area network.

As is further known in home local area networks use one or more of telephone lines radio frequencies power lines and or infrared connections as the communication medium. Such in home local area networks are typically used to facilitate an in home computer network that couples a plurality of computers with one or more printers facsimile machine etc. As such entertainment type data transmissions e.g. from VCRs DVDs et cetera are not supported by the in home local area network without having the home specially wired to support an in home LAN that transceives entertainment type data.

Therefore a need exists for a method and apparatus for a communication system to overcome the above mentioned issues and to offer additional services within homes.

Generally the present invention provides a method and apparatus for channel mixing within a multimedia system. Such a method and apparatus includes processing that begins by receiving a set of channels as encoded channel data. The set of channels corresponds to the channels that have been selected by a plurality of clients via selection requests. The processing continues by interpreting the encoded data to identify a channel of interest for at least one client based on the client s channel selection request. This is typically done for each client that has provided a channel selection request to a multimedia server. The processing then continues by processing the data of the channel of interest based on a type of channel to produce generic data. For example if the incoming data corresponds to a channel of a satellite transmission the incoming data will be in a MPEG format. The MPEG data is converted into a generic video data such as digital RGB digital YCBCR et cetera. The processing continues by converting the generic data into a stream of data for transmission. With such a method and apparatus an in home communication network is established that allows multiple client devices to have independent access to multimedia sources without requiring traditional receiving and or transmitting equipment associated with independent access to such multimedia sources.

The present invention can be more fully described with reference to . illustrates a multimedia system that includes a multimedia server a plurality of client modules operably coupled to a plurality of clients . The multimedia server is operably coupled to receive a plurality of channels from a multimedia source . The multimedia source may be a satellite connection cable connection antenna connection for NTSC television broadcast HDTV broadcast PAL broadcast et cetera. As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the multimedia server may be a stand alone device may be incorporated in a satellite receiver set top box cable box HDTV tuner home entertainment receiver et cetera. In addition the multimedia server may be implemented using discrete components integrated circuits and or a combination thereof.

The multimedia server communicates with the plurality of client modules via a communication path which may be a radio frequency communication path a wire line connection an infrared connection and or any other means for conveying data. As such the multimedia server and each of the client modules include a receiver and or transmitter operable to convey data via the given type of communication path.

As shown each client module is operably coupled to one of the clients. For example client module is operably coupled to client which is representative of a personal digital assistant. Client module is operably coupled to client which is representative of a personal computer. Client module is operably coupled to client which is representative of a monitor e.g. LCD monitor flat panel monitor CRT monitor et cetera . Such a monitor may include speakers or a speaker connection control functions including channel select volume control picture quality et cetera. Client module is operably coupled to client which may be a television set high definition television HDTV standard definition television SDTV a home theatre system et cetera. Client module is operably coupled to client which is representative of a laptop computer.

As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the client module may be a separate device from its associated client or embedded within the client. In addition one of average skill in the art will further appreciate that the client modules may be implemented utilizing discrete components and or integrated circuits.

Each of the clients via its associated client module selects one or more channels from the plurality of channels . As shown client has selected channel of the plurality of channels for viewing. Accordingly client module relays the channel selection of channel to the multimedia server . The multimedia server selects channel from the plurality of channels . The data corresponding to channel is then multiplexed with the data for the other channels and transmitted from the multimedia server to each of the client modules . Client module monitors the transmission from the multimedia server and extracts the data corresponding to channel . The extracted data for channel is then provided to the client for display.

Client module and perform a similar function for their associated clients and respectively. As shown client has selected channel client has selected channel client has selected channel and client has selected channel . The client modules provide the channel selection of its respective client to the multimedia server . Multimedia server extracts the selected channels from the plurality of channels for each selection request multiplexes the data for each of the selected channels for this example channel and into a stream of data. The stream of data is then transmitted to each of the client modules. Each client module extracts the appropriate data of the selected channel for its respective client. For example client module monitors the transmitted data for data related to channel client module monitors for data related to channel client module monitors the transmission for data related to channel and client module monitors the transmission for data related to channel .

From each client s prospective the client has independent access to the multimedia source . Accordingly client may at any time change its channel selection from for example channel to channel . The client module provides the channel selection request to the multimedia server which now retrieves data related to channel for client as opposed to channel . Similarly client could also change their channel selection from the illustrated selection to another channel. Note that if two clients have selected the same channel for example client and both have selected channel the multimedia server would only extract data for channel once and place in the header information of the data relating to channel the identity of both client module and . As such client module and would extract the same data from the transmission by the multimedia server and provide it to its respective clients.

As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the multimedia system of provides each client with independent access to the multimedia source . As an alternate embodiment the functionality of client modules may vary. For example client module may not provide all the independent functionality that client module does. For example client module may not have independent channel selection capabilities but only selecting channels that one of the other clients have selected. Alternatively one client module may service a plurality of clients.

The plurality of client modules communicates with the multimedia server via a communication path. The communication path may be a radio frequency communication path infrared communication path and or wire line communication path. In this system the multimedia server is providing independent access for each of the clients to the public switch telephone network and or to the wide area network .

For access to the public switch telephone network each client includes an identification code e.g. a telephone number . The multimedia server includes cordless telephone functionality such that the multimedia server acts as a base station while each of the client modules in conjunction with its respective client functions as a handset. As such for typical telephone communications the multimedia server is a single base station that includes a plurality of handsets i.e. the clients and their associated client modules such as client that operates as telephone . Note that if the multimedia server has multiple connections to the public switch telephone network multiple clients may have simultaneous telephone conversations ongoing. In addition the multimedia server may include private branch exchange PBX functionality such that communications between each client may occur within the system. For example client may communicate with client via the multimedia server .

For accessing the wide area network multimedia server includes a network connection which may be a DSL modem cable modem 56K modem ISDN modem etc. In addition the multimedia server includes a plurality of network access applications e.g. web browser applications email applications et cetera to facilitate each client s access to the wide area network . In operation the client modules for their respective clients provide an indication that its client desires access to the wide area network . Upon receiving the wide area network request the multimedia server opens a network access application email or web browser for the respective client based on the request. The multimedia server may have multiple network access applications open for each client . When this occurs the multimedia server allocates access to the network connection amongst the clients in a predetermined manner. For example the multimedia server may utilize a token passing concept to provide access to the network connection for each of the clients.

The multimedia server receives data from the wide area network which is destined for one or more of the clients . The multimedia server multiplexes the data and provides a single transmission stream to the plurality of client modules . Each of the client modules monitors the transmission from the multimedia server to extract data for its respective client . Upon detecting data for its client the client module extracts the data and subsequently provides it to its client.

In this illustration clients are accessing the Internet thus are using a web application. For instance client has web page open client has web page open and client has web page open. Each of these web pages appear to the respective client as if the client has direct and independent access to the wide area network. As is also shown clients and have opened an email application and respectively. As such client and may process their email via the multimedia server .

In this illustration client has selected DVD playback . Accordingly client provides an indication of its selection to client module . Client module communicates client s selection to the multimedia server . The multimedia server processes the selection to provide the playback data to client module . As further shown in client has also selected DVD playback while clients and have selected VCR playback . As such each of the associated client modules will provide its clients selection to the multimedia server . The multimedia server processes the selections to produce a stream of outgoing data. In this example the stream of outgoing data includes a multiplexing of the DVD playback data and the VCR playback data. Accordingly the transmission provided by multimedia server to the client modules identifies which packets and or frames contain DVD playback data and which frames and or packets contain VCR playback data. For example the multimedia server may tag packets as containing DVD playback data or VCR playback data. Alternatively the multimedia server may tag the packets by including the identity of the particular client module associated with the client that provided the specific VCR or DVD playback request. In either case the client modules interpret the data transmitted from the multimedia server to extract the appropriate data for its client. The extracted data is then provided to its client for playback.

As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the multimedia server may be operably coupled to the client modules via an RF connection infrared connection and or a wire line connection. In addition each of the client modules may be separate devices and or included within its respective client. As one of average skill in the art will further appreciate the client modules may be implemented in discrete circuit components and or integrated circuits and further includes associated programming operations. Similarly multimedia server may be a stand alone device or incorporated within the DVD player VCR and or any other video source. The multimedia server may be implemented utilizing discrete components integrated circuits and associated programming operations.

In operation the client modules receive a selection request from its respective clients. The selection request is selecting audio playback from the digital audio storage device which may be storing MP3 files digitized audio et cetera the DVD audio player the radio receiver the CD player and or any other type of audio source.

Upon receiving the selection request the multimedia server processes the request to authenticate it and once authenticated retrieves data from the appropriate audio source . The multimedia server multiplexes the audio data from the audio sources into a single transmission. Each of the client modules receives the transmission and extract the relevant portions for its client.

As shown in client has selected to display audio from the digital audio storage device . Accordingly the client provides the selection request to client module which is subsequently provided to the multimedia server . The multimedia server processes the request and initiates the playback from the digital audio storage device . The audio playback data from the storage device is received by the multimedia server which multiplexes it with other audio playback data from other audio sources and provides the single transmission to the client modules. The transmission from the multimedia server may be in packets and or frames. Each packet and or frame includes a header section that identifies the source of the data and or the destination of the data. Accordingly client module monitors the transmission for data addressing it and or identifying the digital audio storage device . Upon detecting such data within the transmission the client module extracts the data and provides it to the client for digital audio playback .

Client has selected DVD audio playback . Accordingly client module provides the selection request to multimedia server . Multimedia server initiates the DVD audio playback via the DVD audio device . The DVD audio playback is multiplexed with other audio playback data and provides the multiplexed data in the single transmission to the client modules. Client module extracts the DVD audio playback data and provides it to client . Client module provides the same function for client .

Client module provides a similar function for client but with respect to CD playback . Accordingly client module provides the CD playback request of client to the multimedia server . The multimedia server initiates the CD playback via CD player and multiplexes the CD playback data into the transmission stream. Client module extracts the CD playback data from the transmission stream and provides it to client .

Client module provides radio playback connectivity to the multimedia server for client . In this example client provides an indication for radio playback and the desired radio station. Client module provides the request to multimedia server which interprets the request and selects one of the plurality of channels received via radio receiver . The data from the selected radio channel is multiplexed with the other audio data being processed by the multimedia server . The client module extracts the appropriate radio data from the transmission and provides it to client .

As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the multimedia server and or may be incorporated in a home theatre receiver television set modem set top box cable receiver satellite receiver VCR DVD player et cetera to provide the networking functionality as generally described in . As one of average skill in the art will further appreciate the clients of may be any one of a personal computer a laptop computer a personal digital system a video telephone a digital telephone a cellular telephone a monitor a television a high definition television a printer a facsimile machine and or any devices that includes an audio and or video display.

Each of the channel modules includes a network interface controller a selection module and a video and or audio interface . The selection module is operably coupled to receive an input from the client to produce a channel selection . Accordingly if the client is a television set the television set provides a signal to the selection module indicating the channel selected. Alternately the channel selection module may include a remote control receiver such that when the remote control of the television is used to change the channel on the television set the selection module receives the control signal interprets it and produces the channel selection therefrom.

The network interface controller receives the channel selection and prepares it for transmission via the communication path to the multimedia server . The processing performed by the network interface controller is dependent on the type of communication path . For example if the communication path is a wire line connection the channel selection may be processed in accordance with a type of transceiving that includes time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM pulse code modulation PCM amplitude shift keying ASK phase shift keying PSK quadrature phase shift keying QPSK quadrature amplitude modulation QAM carrier sense multiple access CSMA CSMA with collision avoidance and or CSMA with collision detection.

The network interface controller provides the process channel selection as a channel select request to the transceiving module of multimedia server . As one of average skill in the art will appreciate client modules perform a similar function as client module in producing their respective channel select request . As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the channel selection may include selecting an audio channel video channel a particular audio source e.g. CD playback a particular video source e.g. DVD player etc. In addition the channel select request may further include volume adjust picture quality settings and adjustments displaying restrictions purchase request picture in picture activation and deactivation picture in picture channel select video pausing reverse play fast forward and or audio muting.

The transceiving module receives the channel select requests from the plurality of client modules via the communication path . The transceiving module extracts the physical layer information from the requests to retrieve the respective channel select requests . The transceiving module provides the channel select request to control module . As an analogy note that the channel selections may correspond to network layer data while the channel selection request may correspond to physical layer data of a ISO standardized communication system. As such channel selection request utilize physical layer type identification within its header and include in its data section the channel selections . The channel selections include a header section and data section corresponding to the particular channel selected.

The control module processes the channel select request . The processing of the channel select request includes authenticating the request and preparing a set of channel selection commands therefrom. The tuning module receives the set of channel selection commands and extracts a set of channels from a plurality of channels based on the set of channel selection commands . The plurality of channels corresponds to channels provided via a satellite connection a cable connection an NTSC broadcast an HDTV broadcast a PAL broadcast et cetera. The tuning module provides data for each of the channels of the set of channels to the channel mixer .

The channel mixer mixes i.e. multiplexes the set of channels to produce a stream of channel data . The mixing of the set of channels includes converting the data of each channel into a generic data type and then converting the generic data into a specific data format for transmission as the stream of channel data .

The transceiving module transmits the stream of channel data in packets of channel data . Alternatively the stream of channel data may be transmitted in frames of channel data. Each of the client modules receives the packets or frames of channel data via its network interface controller .

The network interface controller of each client module interprets the header of each packet of channel data to determine whether it addresses its corresponding client module. If so the network interface controller removes the physical layer portion of the packets of channel data to retrieve channel data . The channel data is provided to the video and or audio interface . For example if the channel data is video data the interface is a video interface to a display input of the associated client. Alternatively if the channel data is audio data the interface is an audio interface that couples to an audio input of the associated client.

Each of the client modules includes a network interface controller and a client interface . In operation the client module via its client interface receives a request that indicates the client s desire for either Internet connection via wide area network to place a telephone call via the PSTN or for client to client communication. The client interface provides connectivity to the client via a PCI bus interface an AC 97 bus interface a parallel input a serial input et cetera. The network interface controller processes the request from its client to produce a request packet s which is are transmitted to the transceiving module of the multimedia server .

The transceiving module retrieves the request from the packet s in accordance with the data conveyance protocol used by the multimedia system. The transceiving module provides the retrieved requests to the processing module . The processing module determines whether the request is valid. If so the processing module sets up the appropriate interface with the PSTN and or the WAN . The appropriate interfacing to the PSTN for a telephone connection includes the processing module performing base station like functions of a cordless telephone while the client module and or client functions as a cordless handset. As a base station the processing module initiates a connection with the PSTN to enable a telephone communication for the requesting client.

If the request was for Internet access via wide area network the appropriate interfacing includes the processing module activating a network access application for the requesting client. The network access application may be a web browser application email application et cetera. The particular network access application will be dependent upon the request provided by the client. Upon activating the network access application the processing module determines whether the network connection is actively coupled to the wide area network . If not the processing module establishes via the modem interface a connection to wide area network through the network connection . At this point the respective client has access to the Internet.

With the Internet access established the client interface receives Internet data from the client and provides it to the network interface controller . The Internet data includes inputs from the client in response to the particular network access application e.g. web browser email etc. . For example the inputs for an email application include send a message read a message compose a message etc. The corresponding processing of these inputs by multimedia server via the network access application is provided back to the client for display by the client. As such from the client s prospective the client has direct access to the Internet.

The client generates the inputs via a keyboard touch screen and or other input device and provides them to the client module via the client interface . The client interface provides the inputs to the network interface controller which packetizes them to produce packets . The packets include a header section and data section. The header section includes identity of the client module and or client the destination address and other physical layer type header information. The data section includes the input data provided by the client. Each client module produces packets in a similar manner.

The network interface controller provides the packets to the transceiving module of the multimedia server via the communication path . Since Internet access is typically a bi directional communication the communication path may include a separate transmit path and a separate receive path. The transmit path may be used for transmitting packets to the multimedia server while the receiving path may be used to receive multiplexed client data from the multimedia server .

The transceiving module receives packets and removes the physical layer header information to produce retrieved requests . The retrieved requests are provided to processing module which converts them into network data by executing the network access application thereon. Note that the network data includes separate data for each of the clients accessing the WAN. The processing module provides the network data to the network connection via the modem interface as outbound modem data . Responses to the outbound modem data are received via the network connection as inbound modem data . The processing module receives the inbound modem data as received network packets via the modem interface .

The processing module interprets the received network packets to identify the source and or destination of the network packets. For each network packet that is destined for a particular client the processing module adds header information to address the particular client thereby producing client data . The transceiving module performs the physical layer interfacing on the client data producing multiplex client data .

Each of the client modules receives the multiplex client data via the communication path . The network interface controller monitors the multiplex client data to identify packets destined for its client module and its respective client. For each packet the network interface controller identifies for the corresponding client module it strips off the physical layer information and provides the respective client data to the client interface . The client interface provides the respective client data to the client thereby facilitating Internet access for the particular client.

The multimedia server may also provide intercom or client to client communications between the clients of the system . In this instance the client interface would receive a request for intercom communications from its client. The network interface controller would packetize this request and provide it to the transceiving module of multimedia server . The processing module processes the request and determines whether the request can be fulfilled. Whether the request can be fulfilled is based on resource availability of the multimedia server bandwidth availability of the communication path and functionality capabilities of the clients involved in the intercom communication. If the request can be fulfilled the processing module provides a response to the initiating client module.

Once the intercom communication has been established the initiating client provides data to the multimedia server via the network interface controller in packets. The packets include a header section and a data section wherein the header section indicates that the data section includes client to client data. Once the processing module receives the packetized intercom data the processing module detects that this is a client to client communication and processes the client to client data . The processing module provides the client to client data as part of the client data . The client data includes header information that identifies it as a client to client communication data telecom data and or Internet communication data.

The transceiving module performs the physical layer packetizing of the client data to produce the multiplex client data . The targeted client module identifies the packets containing the client to client communication via the network interface controller which strips off the physical layer portion of the packets and provides the client to client data to the client interface . The client interface provides the intercom data to the respective client.

In operation the selection module receives an input from a client to produce a source selection . The input from the client indicates the particular multimedia source that is to be accessed. In this example the multimedia source may be a DVD player a VCR a compressed video source closed circuit television system and or any other type of video source. The selection module may receive the input directly from the client and or include circuitry to receive the communication from the remote control device of the client. As such the selection module interprets the remote control transmission of the client to produce the source selection . The source selection includes a header section and a data section. The header section includes the identity of the client module and indicates that the data section including a request as opposed to actual data.

The source selection is provided to the network interface controller which adds physical layer overhead onto the source selection and provides it as a select requests to the multimedia server .

The transceiving module receives the select requests and removes the physical layer overhead. The transceiving module provides the select request which includes the source selections of the client modules to the control module . The control module processes the select request to authenticate the request determine whether the server can support the request and if so produces a set of selection commands .

The tuning module receives the set of selection commands and selects data from one or more of the multimedia sources and based on the corresponding selection commands . The tuning module provides the data from the selected multimedia sources as a set of channels to the channel mixer .

The channel mixer processes the set of channels by converting the data of each multimedia source into generic data. The generic data is converted into a specific format video data which is then combined into a stream of channel data . The transceiving module receives the stream of channel data and packetizes it for transmission as packets of data .

Each of the network interface controllers of the client modules receives the packets of data . The network interface controller strips off the physical layer overhead and interprets it to determine whether the packet is destined for its respective client module. If so the network interface controller provides the audio and or video data contained in the packet to the video and audio interface . The video and audio interface provides the data to an audio input and or video input of the client.

In operation the selection module receives an input from its respective client. The input identifies a particular audio source such as digital audio storage CD DVD audio radio receiver . The input is processed by the selection module to produce a source selection . The source selection identifies the particular source and the corresponding client. The network interface controller packetizes the source selection and provides it as a select request to the multimedia server .

The transceiving module receives the select request via the communication path and reconstructs the source selection as selection request . The control module receives the select request and determines whether they can be fulfilled. The determination is based on resources available within the multimedia server bandwidth availability of communication path authenticity of the particular client and privilege access for the particular client. If the selection request for the client can be processed the control module produces a selection command for each corresponding select request.

The tuning module receives the set of selection commands and accesses the playback data from the identified audio source. The audio sources include the digital audio storage which may be storing digitized audio MP3 files CD player DVD audio player and or a radio receiver . The tuning module outputs the selected playback of the corresponding audio services as a set of channels .

The channel mixer receives the set of channels and converts them into generic audio data. The generic audio data is then converted into a specific audio data format which is combined into a stream of channel data . The channel mixer provides the stream of channel data to the transceiving module . The transceiving module packetizes the stream of channel data and provides it as packets of data to the plurality of client modules .

The network interface controller of the client module receives the packets of data . The network interface controller interprets each packet to determine whether the packet is for its respective client module . For each packet that is for its client module network interface controller extracts audio data and provides it to the audio interface . The audio interface provides the audio data for playback to its respective client device.

In this multimedia communication system a client may select any one of a variety of multimedia services including client to client communications viewing a channel from a satellite connection cable connection etc. viewing closed circuit television viewing compressed video stored in memory viewing a DVD viewing a cassette from a VCR listening to digital audio listening to a compact disk listening to DVD audio listening to a radio station accessing the Internet and or participating in a telephone call.

To initiate one or more of these multimedia services the selection module of a client module receives an input either from the client device or a remote control device associated with the client device. The input identifies the particular client as well as identifying the particular service desired. The selection module interprets the input to produce a source selection . The selection module provides the source selection to the network interface controller .

The network interface controller prepares the source selection for transmission to the multimedia server . The preparation may be done by packetizing the source selection for a physical layer type transmission placing at least a portion of the source selection in an allocated timeslot in a TDM transmission scheme responding to a polling request from the multimedia server requesting and or receiving a token ring et cetera. Regardless of the type of access scheme used the network interface controller produces a request which is transmitted to the transceiving module of multimedia server .

The transceiving module receives the request from the client modules . The transceiving module processes the request in accordance with the transmission scheme utilized. For example if the transmission scheme is carrier sense multiple access the transceiving module interprets the header to identify the particular client such that it may isolate the individual request . As a further example if TDM access is utilized the transceiving module identifies the particular timeslot allocated to each client module to identify the corresponding request . Regardless of the type of transmission scheme utilized the transceiving module removes the physical layer type overhead from the requests to recapture the source selections . The source selections are provided as select requests to the control module .

The transceiving module processes requests to identify the particular type of selection being requested. If the selection is to access one of the multimedia sources it processes that as described above. If however the transceiving module detects one or more of the requests requesting client to client communication the transceiving module generates a client to client request which is provided to processing module .

The control module interprets each of the select requests in accordance with the access privileges and authentication processes for each of the client modules . If the selection request is valid and the client module has been authenticated the control module generates a select command for each corresponding request . The control module provides the select commands as a set of commands to the tuning module .

The tuning module processes each of the select commands of the set of commands to identify the multimedia source to be accessed. For each command received the tuning module selects the appropriate channel of the multimedia sources. For multimedia sources that include a plurality of channels such as a satellite connection cable connection radio receiver et cetera the tuning module selects the particular source and also further selects one of the plurality of channels from such multimedia sources. The resulting isolated channels are provided to the channel mixer as a set of channels .

The processing module receives client to client communication requests and processes the request to produce client to client data . The processing module provides the client to client data as client data to the channel mixer .

The channel mixer processes the set of channels and when included the client data . The channel mixer converts the data of each channel of the set of channels into generic data. The client data is multiplexed with the generic data of the set of channels to produce the stream of channel data . The channel mixer provides the stream of channel data to the transceiving module .

The transceiving module transmits the stream of channel data in accordance with the data transmission protocol incorporated by the multimedia communication system. As such the stream of channel data is framed packetized et cetera to produce packets of data that are provided via a communication path to each of the client modules .

The network interface controller of each of the client modules receives the packets of data and interprets overhead information within the header to determine whether this particular packet is for the corresponding client module. If so the network interface controller strips off the overhead information and further interprets the particular type of data contained in the packet. This may be done by reading additional overhead information to identify the particular sources of information and or accessing memory which corresponds the anticipated packets with the source selection . If the packets correspond to data received from one of the multimedia sources the network interface controller provides audio and or video data to one or more of the interfaces or . If however the data relates to a client to client communication telephone call or accessing the Internet the network interface controller provides the received data to the client interface .

Each of the interfaces and interfaces with the respective client devices either through external ports of the client device such as a serial port parallel port or internal access through a PCI bus AC 97 bus et cetera. Once the data is received by the client device it is displayed visual and or audibly as if the client device had direct access to the particular multimedia source being accessed.

As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the mixing of data performed by channel mixer may utilize a prioritization scheme depending on the type of data being mixed. For example if the data being mixed includes real time audio and or video data such data may take priority over non real time video and or audio. Such real time video and or audio include telephone communications watching live broadcasts et cetera while non real time video and or audio include viewing a DVD VCR listening to digital audio CD DVD audio et cetera. The non real time data may be transmitted in large bursts with greater time intervals between the bursts and still provide a continuous flow of display data. Conversely real time data is transmitted in smaller bursts and more frequently.

As one of average skill in the art will further appreciate the memory of multimedia server or other memories in any of the multimedia server shown may enable the multimedia server to function as a digital VCR. As such live broadcasts may be captured from a satellite connection cable connection NTSC broadcast PAL broadcast HDTV broadcast and stored in memory for subsequent playback.

As one of average skill in the art will further appreciate the multimedia server may couple to one or more of the multimedia sources shown. As such multimedia server may include the functionality of any one or all of the multimedia servers shown in . Correspondingly each client module may include the functionality of one or more of the client modules shown in .

The processing module may be a single processing device or plurality of processing devices. Such a processing device may be a microcontroller microprocessor microcomputer central processing unit digital signal processor programmable gate array state machine logic circuitry and or any device that manipulates signals analog and or digital based on operational instructions. The memory may be a single memory device or a plurality of memory devices. Such a memory device may be a read only memory random access memory system memory flash memory magnetic tape memory programmable memory erasable memory and or any device that stores digital information. Note that when the processing module implements one or more of its functions via a state machine or logic circuitry the memory storing the corresponding instructions is embedded within the circuitry comprising the state machine or logic circuitry. The functions performed by processing module and stored in memory are generally described in the logic diagrams of which will be discussed below.

In general the multimedia server provides access for a plurality of clients to one or more of the multimedia services by receiving requests and or from a client module. The multimedia server processes the request to produce packets of data and or or multiplex client data depending on the type of request. In addition the client modules may provide packets of information which contain data for Internet connections telephone connections and or client to client communications. The multimedia server processes packets as described generally with reference to .

Client module and or includes a processing module and memory . The client module is operably coupled to a client and or to provide display data . The display data may include audio data video data and or text data. The type of display data will depend on the particular multimedia source being accessed for the client. The processing module may be a single processing device or a plurality of processing devices. Such a processing device may be a microprocessor microcontroller microcomputer central processing unit programmable gate array state machine logic circuitry digital signal processor and or any device that manipulates signals analog and or digital based on operational instructions. The memory may be a single memory device or a plurality of memory devices. Such a memory device may be a read only memory random access memory erasable memory flash memory magnetic tape memory system memory and or any device that stores digital information. Note that when processing module implements one or more of its functions via a state machine or logic circuitry the memory storing the corresponding operational instructions is embedded within the circuitry comprising the state machine and or logic circuit. The functions performed by processing module and stored in memory are described in greater detail with reference to and have been generally described with reference to .

In operation the control module provides the set of channel select commands to the tuning module . As shown each tuner receives an individual channel select command from the control module . Alternatively the control module provides a stream of data containing the channel select commands to the tuning module . The tuning module then would interpret the stream of data to identify the particular commands being received and then provide individual channel select commands to tuners . Each of the tuners has its input coupled to receive the plurality of channels .

The plurality of channels may be received via a satellite connection cable connection NTSC broadcast PAL broadcast HDTV broadcast et cetera. Accordingly each of the tuners would include a corresponding tuner functionality and construction. For example if the plurality of channels is being received via an NTSC broadcast each of the tuners includes a television encoder to isolate one of the plurality of channels and produce digitized video as an output. Alternatively if the plurality of channels is received via a satellite connection each of the tuners includes a satellite tuner as found in commercially available satellite receivers. The satellite tuner outputs in MPEG 2 format one or more channels of the plurality of channels. Similarly for HDTV cable TV et cetera the tuners would be of a construct corresponding to the particular source of the plurality of channels. Since the construct of such tuners for each of the sources is known no further discussion will be presented for the tuners except to further illustrate the concepts of the present invention.

Each tuner outputs a selected channel and provides it to the encoding module . The encoding module encodes each of the selected channels based on the encoding scheme used by the multimedia server to produce encoded channel data . The encoding scheme may be one or more of multilevel encoding non return to zero encoding Manchester encoding block encoding and or nB mB encoding where in n m. For example the nB mB may be 4B 5B encoding where 4 bits of actual data are converted into 5 bits of encoded data. In addition the encoding attaches a header portion which identifies the particular channel. The encoded channel data is placed on a bus coupling the tuning module to the channel mixer by a bus interface module .

The bus interfacing module places the encoded channel data on the bus in accordance with the particular data transport scheme used within multimedia server . For example the data conveyance protocol may be carrier sense multi access TDMA et cetera.

The channel mixer is operably coupled to receive the encoded channel data from tuning module . The channel mixer receives the encoded channel data via the stream parsing module . The stream parsing module includes a plurality of bit stream modules . Each of the bit stream modules monitors the bus for data corresponding to a particular channel of interest. Accordingly each of the bit stream modules is allocated to process data related to a particular client module. For example bit stream module may be allocated to process data for client module of while bit stream module is allocated to process data for client module of et cetera.

Each bit stream module includes a bus interface module not shown to monitor the bus to detect the identity the relevant data. As one of average skill in the art will appreciate alternatively the channel mixer may include a bus interface module that provides a single connection to receive all of the data wherein the bus interface module interprets the data and provides it to the appropriate bit stream module . Each of the bit stream modules isolates data of its corresponding channel of interest and provides the data to memory via memory controller .

As the data corresponding to each channel of interest is stored in memory the processing module is converting the channel of interest from its original format into generic data. The processor causes the generic data to be stored in memory via memory controller . For example if the channel of interest corresponds to video data received from one of the multimedia sources the processor converts the specific formatted video data e.g. MPEG II of the multimedia source into a generic video data. Such generic video data may be formatted as MPEG video data JPEG data M JPEG video data digital RGB data and or digital YCBCR data.

If the data for the channel of interest is audio data the processor converts the formatted of audio data from its original format into generic audio data such as MPEG formatted audio data MP3 formatted data and or PCM digitized audio data.

The data transcoding module retrieves the generic data from memory via the memory controller to produce a stream of channel data . If the generic data is generic video data the transcoding module converts the generic video data into a specific video data format such as MPEG II to produce the stream of channel data . If however the generic data includes generic audio data the data transcoding module converts it into a specific audio format such as MP3. If the data is Internet data telecommunication data and or client to client communication data the transcoding module provides the data unaltered as part of the stream of channel data .

The transceiving module receives the stream of channel data and processes it to produce packets of channel data . The processing performed by the transceiving module is in accordance with the data conveyance protocol of the multimedia server. As such the processing adds overhead information to identify the particular portions of the stream of channel data that is destined for individual client modules.

The video graphics processing applications may be software applications stored in memory and executed by processing module . Alternatively the video graphics process applications may be executed by a single or multiple video graphics processors operable coupled to memory controller . In any implementation the video graphics process applications prepare video data for display on a CRT LCD panel et cetera.

The memory stores a plurality of software applications including client service software cordless telephone software client to client software modem allocation software a plurality of web browser applications and a plurality of email applications . The memory also stores client display data . The client display data is processed by the video graphics process applications to produce outgoing display data.

In operation the transceiving module receives packets from the plurality of client modules. Initially the packets include header information that identifies the particular client information indicating that this is a service request packet and its payload includes identity of the particular service being requested. The particular service being requested may be accessed to the Internet participating in a telephone conversation via the PSTN and or client to client communications.

When the packets are received by the multimedia server the transceiving module removes the physical layer overhead information from the packets and provides retrieved requests to memory controller . Memory controller causes the retrieved requests to be stored in memory . The processing module retrieves the retrieved requests to initiate processing of the requests. For requests indicating a particular type of service the processing module interprets the request to identify the service being requested. As an alternative to routing received request packets through memory controller the receive request packets may be placed in a buffer and directly accessed by processing module from the buffer.

The processing module evokes the client service software to interpret the received packets to identify whether the packets are requesting a particular type of service what that service is and or identifying the packets as data packets. If the processing module determines via the client software that the request is for a telephone conversation via the PSTN the processing module evokes the cordless phone software . If however the request is for client to client communication the processing module evokes the client to client software . If however the request is for access to the Internet the processing module evokes either an email application or a web browser application depending on the particular type of access being requested.

For client to client communications the transceiving module receives packets containing communication data. The packets will be processed by the transceiving module to remove the physical layer overhead and provide the receive packets to memory controller . The receive packets will be stored in the memory . The processing module via the client to client software retrieves the client to client communication data from memory and processes it to produce client to client data . The processing module provides the client to client data to the memory controller for storage in memory . The transceiving module causes the memory controller to retrieve the client to client data from memory and provide it as client data . The transceiving module multiplexes the client data for the client to client communication with other services being supported for the client modules to produce multiplex client data . The multiplex client data also includes the physical layer overhead to identify the individual packets once received by the client modules.

If the service request is for a telephone conversation via the PSTN the processing module evokes the cordless phone software . Accordingly as the processing module retrieves receive packets from memory it performs the cordless phone software upon the data. In essence the cordless phone software causes the multimedia server to act as a base station while the client module and or client acts as the cordless handset. The telephone functionality utilizes a dual tone multi frequency DTMF signaling for keying in the numbers. The transmission rate between the multimedia server and the handset may utilize traditional 900 Mhz cordless phone frequencies 2.4 gigahertz frequencies and or CDMA code division multiple access technology.

The processing module upon processing the receive packets produces network data which is provided to the modem interface . The modem interface provides the network data to the PSTN . Accordingly the processing module includes an identifier within the network data such that the modem interface knows to provide it to the PSTN as opposed to the modem .

For incoming telecommunication data the modem interface provides the data as received network packets to the processing module . The processing module while performing the cordless phone software processes the receive network packets to produce client data . The client data is temporarily stored in memory before being transmitted to the clients as part of the multiplex client data by the transceiving module .

If the requested service is to access to the Internet the packets received by the transceiving module are temporarily stored in memory as received packets . The processing module evokes either the email application or the web browser application depending on the particular type of Internet access requested. For web browsing access the processing module accesses the web browser application . For email Internet access the processing module evokes the email application . The email applications and web browser applications are known thus no further discussion will be provided as to their functionality except to further illustrate the concepts of the present invention.

For web browser access the processing module evokes the web browsing application to process the received packets . Such processing yields network data which is provided to the modem interface . The modem interface provides the network data as outbound modem data .

Responses from the Internet are received by modem and provided to the modem interface as inbound modem data . The modem interface provides the inbound modem data as received network packets to the processing module while executing the web browser application produces processed packets which are stored in memory . The video graphics process application retrieves the processed packets from memory and performs its associated video graphics processing to produce client display data . The memory controller retrieves the client display data and provides it as client data to transceiving module . The transceiving module processes the client data to add physical layer overhead information and multiplexes it with other client data being processed and transmits the multiplex client data to the client modules.

For email Internet access the processing module evokes the email application to process the receive packets . The processing yields network data that is provided to the modem as outbound modem data via the modem interface . Email responses are received by modem and provided as inbound modem data to the modem interface . The modem interface provides the receive data as received network packets to the processing module . The processing module performs the email application upon the received network packets to yield the processed data. The processed data is stored in memory and accessed by the video graphics processing application . The video graphics processing application performs a video graphics processing function upon the processed data to produce client display data . The client display data is subsequently retrieved by memory controller and provided as client data to the transceiving module .

When only one client is accessing the Internet the client has exclusive access to modem such that no allocation of the network connection is needed. In addition when only one client is accessing the Internet only one email application and or one web browser application is open for the client. Once however two or more clients are accessing the Internet the processing module evokes an email application and or web browser application for each client. In addition the processing module may be executing multiple email applications and or multiple web browser applications for multiple clients. When this is the case allocation of the modem needs to be shared amongst the clients accessing the Internet. To do this the processing module evokes the modem allocation software .

The modem allocation software allocates access to modem among the plurality of clients. The modem allocation software may be based on a TDMA function a CSMA function token ring passing polling function et cetera. Accordingly the processing module provides access to the particular client based on the modem allocation software such that each client has substantially equal access to the Internet.

As one of average skill in the art will appreciate by storing the email applications and web browser applications within the multimedia server the clients appear to have independent access to the Internet while in actuality it is shared amongst a plurality of clients. The video graphics processing applications in combination with the email applications and or web browser applications cause the data corresponding to the processing of the applications to appear as if the client device was processing the applications. As one of average skill in the art will further appreciate if the client device includes video graphics processing which is typically included in a personal computer then the video graphics processing application may be bypassed within the multimedia server . Accordingly the processed data by the web browser application or email application may be packetized without producing the client display data and provided as client data to the respective client device. The respective client device would then perform its own video graphics process of data to produce the display data. The overall functionality of multimedia server will be described in greater detail with reference to .

In operation the control module receives select request from the client modules and produces therefrom a set of select commands . Each of the select commands is provided to one of the multiplexors . The multiplexors each have its inputs coupled to single channel video sources such as a DVD player VCR compressed video source closed circuit television laser disk player camcorder et cetera. Each of the multiplexors outputs one of the single channel multimedia sources as a selected channel based on the respective select command .

The encoding module receives the selected channels from each of the multiplexors and encodes the selected channels to produce encoded channel data . The encoding scheme used by encoding module may be multilevel encoding non return to zero encoding Manchester encoding block encoding nB mB encoding where n

The channel mixer receives the set of channels via its stream parsing module . In particular each of the bit stream modules is monitoring the bus for data related to the particular channel of interest it is processing. Accordingly each bit stream module is processing data for a particular client module. Each bit stream module receives the set of channels and produces a respective channel of interest . As such the bit stream modules filter out the data of all other channels but the channel of interest. The data corresponding to each channel of interest is stored in memory via memory controller .

Processor retrieves the data for each channel of interest and converts the specific formatted video data into a generic video data. The generic video data is stored in memory via memory controller .

The data transcoding module retrieves the generic video data from memory and produces therefrom a stream of channel data . The processing performed by the data transcoding module includes converting the generic video data into specific formatted video data. The specific formatted video data comprises the stream of channel data .

The transceiving module receives the stream of channel data and produces therefrom packets of data . The transcoding module adds the physical layer overhead of the particular data conveyance protocol used by the multimedia communication system to produce the packets of data .

In operation the control module receives select request from a plurality of client modules. The control module processes the select request to produce a set of select commands . The select commands are provided to one or more of the plurality of tuners and or the plurality of multiplexors . The plurality of tuners have a radio receiver operably coupled to its inputs where the radio receiver may be an antenna for receiving AM and or FM radio transmissions. The tuners are constructed of conventional circuitry to tune into a particular radio station from a plurality of radio stations. The construct of such tuners is known as such no further discussion of the functionality or construct of the tuners will be described except to further illustrate the present invention.

Based on the respective select command each tuner selects a particular channel of the radio channels received. The output of each tuner is an input for each of the multiplexors . Each of the multiplexors also includes an input for other single audio channel multimedia sources. Such single audio channel multimedia sources include CD players DVD audio players digital audio storage devices et cetera.

Based on the respective select commands each of the multiplexors outputs a particular selected channel . Accordingly the selected channel may be one of the single audio channel multimedia sources or the output of one of the plurality of tuners .

The encoding module receives the selected channels and encodes them to produce encoded channel data . The encoding performed by encoding module may be one or more of multilevel encoding non return to zero encoding Manchester encoding block encoding nB mB encoding where n

The channel mixer receives the encoded channel data as a set of channels . The stream parsing module includes a plurality of bit stream modules through which receive the set of channels and extracts data related to a particular channel of interest . Accordingly each bit stream module is supporting a particular channel selection request of a particular client module. Each of the bit stream modules filters out the data of other channels such that only the data of the channel of interest is passed. The data corresponding to the channels of interest is stored in memory via memory controller .

The processing module retrieves the data corresponding to the channels of interest from memory and converts the specific formatted audio data into generic formatted audio data. The generic formatted audio data is stored in memory . Such generic formatted audio data may be PCM digitized audio MP3 audio MPEG audio et cetera.

The transcoding module retrieves the generic audio data from memory and converts it into a specific audio format. Such specific audio format may be MP3 audio MPEG audio et cetera. The data transcoding module provides the specific audio formatted data of a stream of channel data to the transceiving module . As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the data transcoding module may process the audio data from audio sources in a similar manner as it processes audio data from multimedia sources such as a DVD player CD player satellite connection et cetera.

The transceiving module converts the stream of channel data into packets of data . The transceiving module utilizes the data conveyance protocol of the multimedia communication system to add physical layer overhead to the data of the stream of channel data to produce packets. The packets are then conveyed to the plurality of client modules.

The channel mixer includes a first plurality of stream parsing modules a second plurality of stream parsing modules a third plurality of stream parsing modules and a data transcoding module . The multimedia server may further include or be operably coupled to components within the host device. The host device may be a satellite receiver cable box set top box home theatre receiver HDTV tuner et cetera. The host device includes a host processor a memory bridge host memory and a hard drive . To interface with the host components the multimedia server further comprises a direct memory access DMA device .

In this configuration the control module receives selection request via the host bus and produces therefrom a set of commands . The set of commands are provided to individual ones of the HDTV tuners the multiplexors the audio tuners multiplexors and or the modem interface. As such each of the elements of the tuning module will respond to an individual selection command accordingly.

If an HDTV tuner receives a select command it selects a particular channel from a satellite or cable source . The selected channel is provided to the encoding module . If one of the multiplexors receives a select command it outputs one of the single channel multimedia video sources such as a DVD player compress video VCR . The output of the multiplexor is provided to encoding module . The encoding module converts the audio and video data of the single channel into encoded data as previously discussed.

If one of the audio tuners receives a select command it selects a particular radio channel from a plurality of radio channels of radio receiver . The output of the tuner is provided to encoding module . If one of the multiplexors receives a select command it provides its output to the encoding module . As shown the inputs to the multiplexors include DVD audio digital audio storage and CD . The encoding module encodes the received audio data of a selected channel as previously discussed.

The outputs of encoding module and are provided to the bus interface module . The bus interface module provides the encoded data to the channel mixing circuit. In addition the bus interface module is operably coupled to the modem interface and to the public switch telephone network . The modem interface and PSTN connection provide the multimedia server the ability to service clients as previously described with reference to .

The stream parsing modules and receive the encoded channel data and filter the encoded channel data down to a particular channel of interest. The data corresponding to the particular channel of interest is stored in memory via memory controller . The processing module retrieves the data of the channels of interest from memory and converts the data into generic audio data and or generic video data. The generic audio and or video data is stored in memory .

The data transcoding module retrieves the generic audio and or video data from memory and converts it into a specific audio format which is then provided as a stream of data to the transceiving module for conveyance to the plurality of clients.

The hard drive may store the digital audio which is provided as digital audio storage . Accordingly the digital audio may be stored in an MP3 format PCM audio and or any means for digitizing for storing digital audio signals. In addition the hard drive may function as a digital VCR such that any of the channels of the multimedia sources may be stored in hard drive and subsequently played back. Accordingly host memory would include the appropriate software to enable host processor to retrieve the data from hard drive as a digital VCR.

As shown in a plurality of channels includes a channel identifier and the corresponding audio and or video data. In this illustration channel includes channel audio and video data channel includes channel audio and video data et cetera. As also illustrated channel channel and channel have been selected by different clients to be viewed. Accordingly the set of channel selection commands identifies these particular channels.

HDTV tuners and each process one of the channel select commands. As shown HDTV tuner is processing the channel select command for channel HDTV tuner is processing the channel select command for channel and HDTV tuner is processing the channel select command for channel . As shown each HDTV tuner receives all of the plurality of channels . The output of each HDTV tuner is of its corresponding selected channel. As shown HDTV tuner is outputting audio and video data for channel HDTV tuner is outputting audio and video data for channel and HDTV tuner is outputting audio and video data for channel .

The audio video data for channel includes a plurality of frames . Each frame may correspond to an I frame a B frame and or a P frame of MPEG video data. The audio video data of channel is provided to encoding module . Similarly audio video data of channel includes a plurality of frames and audio video data of channel includes a plurality of frames .

The encoding module encodes the audio video data and of the respective channels. The resulting data is encoded channel data which includes a plurality of packets and . As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the packets and may also be frames depending on the data conveyance protocol used within the multimedia communication system. For packet based transmission which is illustrated in the encoding module packetizes data from each of the selected channels for this example channel and in a round robin fashion. As one of average skill in the art will appreciate other schemes may be used to determine which data of a particular channel of interest will be processed and in what order. For example one channel may have priority over another which may be the case for real time transmissions versus non real time data transmissions.

In this illustration packet includes a header portion and a data payload . The header section may include identity of the selected channel type of data of the selected channel identity of the multimedia source an indication as to whether the data is encrypted or not an indication of the type of encryption an indication as to whether the data is compressed or not an indication of the type of compression and or a packet sequence number. Accordingly the header information includes all the necessary information for the client modules to accurately retrieve the data contained in payload . As shown a first portion of frame of the audio video data for channel is included in payload .

Packet includes header information and a payload . The header information includes similar information as header but directed towards data related to audio video data . The payload section carries data from a first portion of frame of audio video data . Packet includes header and payload . The header includes similar header information as but directed towards the audio video data . The payload includes a portion of frame .

The next three packets encoded by encoding module will be for the second portion of each of frames and . The encoding module will continue to packetize portions of frames and until the entire frame has been conveyed. Once the entire frame has been conveyed the encoding module encodes sections of the next frame in the sequence of the audio video data and . The encoded channel data is then conveyed as packets utilizing carrier sense multiple access CSMA CSMA with collision avoidance and or CSMA with collision detection.

While is illustrated with respect to packetizing the encoded channel data one of average skill in the art will appreciate that the encoding module may utilize a TDMA concept wherein the encoded channel data is prepared as frames. Accordingly packets and will be replaced by frames where each frame includes a header section and a data section. The header section includes one or more of the identity of the selected channel the type of data of the selected channel the identity of the multimedia source an indication as to whether encryption is enabled or disabled the type of encryption used an indication as to whether compression is enabled or disabled an indication of the type of compression and a frame number. As such the header information and the timing of the frames includes sufficient information such that the client modules may accurately retrieve the data contained in the respective data sections or payloads.

The encoded channel data is then conveyed in frames in accordance with time division multiplexing and or frequency division multiplexing.

The channel mixer includes a plurality of stream parsing modules A B and C A B and C operably coupled to respective bus interfaces . The respective bus interfaces are receiving each of the plurality of packets and reading the header section. When the bus interface module detects that the particular packet relates to the specific channel select request or the bus interface provides the payload section and a portion of the header section to the remaining circuitry of the stream parsing module A B and or C A B and or C.

Each of the stream parsing modules A B and C are extracting data and from the payload of packets corresponding to the specific channel select request and . The data and is stored in memory until the entire video frame and or is stored.

Once each of the video frames and is stored processor A B and or C retrieves the respective data of the corresponding video frame or from memory and converts it into generic data . The generic data is stored in memory . The data transcoding module retrieves the generic data from memory and converts it into a specific video and or audio data format and conveys the converted data as a stream of channel data to the plurality of clients.

As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the processors A B and C may process the data of the video frames and as the data and is being stored in memory. In other words the processors do not have to wait until the entire video frame is stored to begin converting the data into the generic data and .

While is illustrated with respect to receiving packets of encoded channel data one of average skill in the art will appreciate that the packets may be frames of data. Accordingly the bus interface modules would monitor the bus for frames of data to be processed by the respective stream parsing modules A B or C. The determination of the particular frames to retrieve is based on the specific channel select request or . Accordingly any data related to the specific channel select request is obtained by the corresponding stream parsing module A B or C and converted into data or .

As shown the video frame includes a plurality of frames . The MPEG frame include a plurality of frames while the digitized video data includes a stream of digitized video data .

The encoding module receives the video frame the MPEG frame and the digitized video data and encodes the data of these sources to produce the encoded channel data . This may be done in a packetized manner wherein packets and are generated to include a header section and and a payload section and respectively.

The encoding module encodes a portion of frame into the payload of packet . Similarly the encoding module encodes a portion of the digitized video data into the payload of packet . The encoding module also encodes a portion of frame of MPEG frame into payload of packet . The header sections and include header information as previously described with reference to to enable the client modules to accurately retrieve the corresponding data.

While is illustrated with respect to transmitting the encoded channel data as packets and utilizing a CSMA type physical layer transmission the packets and may be frames of data that are transmitted utilizing TDMA and or FDMA physical layer data conveyance techniques. As such the encoded channel data may include a plurality of packets where each packet includes a portion of one of the video data from one of the plurality of multimedia sources and or frames of data from one of the plurality of multimedia sources.

The control module generates the select commands based on select request received via the transceiving module and or . The channel mixer and or receives the output of the tuning module and generates therefrom data for one or more of the client modules.

The multimedia server also includes processing module and or to process communication via telecom sources . The telecom sources include Internet connection PSTN connection and or client to client communications.

The transceiving module and or includes a router . The router provides the connectivity to each of the client modules and or . The construct and functionality of a router such as router is known thus no further discussion will be presented except to further illustrate the concepts of the present invention.

With the communication path being a wire line connection the stream of channel data and the select request are transceived utilizing a type of transceiving. The type of transceiving may be time division multiplexing frequency division multiplexing pulse code modulation amplitude shift keying phase shift keying quadrature phase shift keying quadrature amplitude modulation carrier sense multiple access CSMA CSMA with collision avoidance and or CSMA with collision detection. Accordingly such a wire line connection transmits and receives data over the same twisted pair coaxial cable in home network telephone lines et cetera.

Alternatively the wire line connection may include a transmit wire line connection and a receive wire line connection. The stream of channel data is transmitted via the transmit wire line connection using a type of transmission. The type of transmission includes time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM pulse code modulation PCM amplitude shift keying ASK phase shift keying PSK quadrature phase shift keying QPSK quadrature amplitude modulation QAM carrier sense multiple access CSMA CSMA with collision avoidance CA and or CSMA with collision detection CD . The received wire line communication path may be utilized to receive the channel selects from the client modules. The receive wire line connection uses a type of reception that may be TDM FDM PCM ASK PSK QPSK QUM CSMA CSMA with CA and CSMA with CD.

Alternatively if the multimedia communication system is supporting Internet connections the transmit wire line connection and receive wire line connections are conveying data related to the telecom sources . Such data includes packets destined for the Internet received packets from the Internet telecommunication data destined for the PSTN data received from the PSTN and or client to client communication data.

As shown the router is operably coupled to the channel mixer the tuning module and to the control module. The router is also operably coupled to at least one of the client modules. With such a configuration the control module causes the stream of channel data from the channel mixer to be formatted based on the type of transceiving to produce formatted channel data. The router provides the formatted channel data to the client modules via the wire line connection. The particular type of formatting used by the channel mixer is based on the type of transceiving which was previously described. In addition the selection request received by the client modules will be formatted in accordance with the type of transceiving such that when the router receives it the router appropriately de formats the data to recapture the particular selection request. The same applies whether the wire line connection is a single path that transceives data or includes a receive and a transmit path.

The RF communication path may utilize a single frequency to transceive data between the multimedia server and the clients may include a separate frequency for transmitting data and a separate frequency for receiving data may include a plurality of frequencies for transceiving data may include a plurality of frequencies for receiving data and a separate plurality of frequencies for transmitting data.

As shown the RF transceiving switch is operably coupled to the processing module and or the control module and or the tuning module and or and the channel mixer and or . As configured the control module causes the stream of channel data which is conveyed via the RF communication path to the client modules to be formatted based on the type of transceiving used. The type of transceiving may be time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM pulse code modulation PCM amplitude shift keying ASK phase shift keying PSK quadrature phase shift keying QPSK quadrature amplitude modulation QAM carrier sense multiple access CSMA CSMA with collision avoidance CA and CSMA with collision detection CD .

The RF transceiving switch provides the formatted channel data to the clients during transmitting intervals via the radio frequency path . The transmission and receiving intervals will be described in greater detail with reference to .

The client module receives the formatted data via the RF path then processes it as previously discussed and will be subsequently discussed in greater detail with reference to . In addition the client module formats the selection request based on the type of transceiving and then provides the formatted selection request to the transceiving module via the RF communication path . The RF transceiving switch receives the selection request and provides them to the control module. The control module processes the selection request as previously described and will be subsequently described in greater detail with reference to .

As shown the IR transceiving switch is operably coupled to the processing module the control module the tuning module and the channel mixer. As configured the control module causes the stream of channel data which is transmitted via the IR communication path from the transceiving module to the client module to be formatted based on the type of transceiving. As previously mentioned the type of transceiving includes TDM FDM PCM ASK PSK QPSK QAM CSMA CSMA with CA and CSMA with CD. The particular data contained in the stream of channel data is based on selection request received from the client module.

The client module formats the selection request in accordance with the type of transceiving and conveys the formatted selection requests during reception intervals via the IR communication path or transmits them via a separate receive IR path. The transceiving module upon receiving the selection request provides the selection request to the control module which provides commands to the tuning module which selects the appropriate channels from the AV sources based on the commands.

As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the communication path between the multimedia server and the plurality of clients may include one or more of the wire line communication path of the RF communication path of and the IR communication path of . For example the transceiving path between each of the client modules may utilize the RF communication path while the receiving path may be an IR path. As a further example the client modules within the same physical location as the server may be operably coupled via a wire line communication path while other client modules in different locations within a home utilize an RF communication path. Thus a variety of communication path combinations may be utilized within the same multimedia communication system to provide the multimedia communication services.

The second transceiving module includes encoder and enables the multimedia server to communicate with at least some of the client modules via a second communication path . The second communication path may be a wire line connection RF connection and or infrared connection. The data transmitted over the second communication path may be identical to the stream of channel data transmitted by transceiving module and or or separate data. As such the multimedia server may service multiple sets of client modules from the same grouping of audio and or video sources .

The control module and or includes processing means for determining client access privileges for each of the plurality of clients. Such access privileges include parental control features time of access quantity of access et cetera. As such the control module determines for each client selection request whether the request is valid before providing a selection command to the tuning module. Such a feature gives the operator of the multimedia communication system control over which A V resources each client module may access the amount of access per day and or the time of access.

The processing begins when a plurality of channels are received from at least one multimedia source at step . The multimedia source may be a satellite connection cable connection NTSC antenna connection PAL antenna connection HDTV connection SDTV connection radio connection et cetera. In addition the plurality of channels may be from a plurality of single channel sources including a DVD player VCR closed circuit television laser disk player camcorder digital audio storage device e.g. MP3 player DVD audio player CD player et cetera. The plurality of channels are continuously received but not processed until one or more client modules select one or more channels.

The process proceeds to Step where a select request is received from at least one client module via a communication path. The communication path as previously discussed in may be a radio frequency communication path IR communication path and or wire line communication path. The selection request may be from one client module or a plurality of client modules each client may be requesting access to a different channel the same channel or any combination thereof. The selection request includes the identity of the particular client module and the identity of the particular channel and or source for the channel. As such the selection request includes sufficient information for the multimedia server to determine the particular audio and or video source of the particular channel and the desired channel. For example the selection request may indicate that channel of a satellite broadcast is to be the channel of interest for a particular client module.

The processing then proceeds to Step where a control module within the multimedia server generates a set of channel select commands from the select request. Accordingly for each select request received from the client modules the control module assuming the select request is valid generates a corresponding select command. Thus if only one client module has provided a select request only one select command is generated. As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the select command is not repeatedly generated from a select request the select command is typically generated once and maintained until an alternate select request is received or a termination request is received.

The processing of generating a set of channel select commands may further be described with reference to Steps . At Step the select requests are de formatted. As previously mentioned the select requests are received via a communication path which utilizes a particular data conveyance protocol. The data may be encoded utilizing one of a variety of encoding schemes such as Manchester encoding non return to zero encoding multi level encoding block encoding NB MB encoding et cetera. In addition the encoded data is then modulated utilizing the particular modulation scheme which may be TDM FDM ASK PSK et cetera. Accordingly to recapture the original selection requests the data must be demodulated and decoded.

The process then proceeds to Step where the select request is interpreted to produce the channel select command. The interpretation of the select request includes an authentication process a verification of the particular client module and a determination of the validity of the client module. If the client module is an authentic client module and the service being requested is within the privileges of the particular client module the control module will generate the corresponding channel command.

Returning to the main flow of the process continues at Step where a tuning module selects a set of channels from the plurality of channels based on the set of channel select commands. For example if only one channel select command exists the tuning module will select a channel corresponding to this particular channel select command. If two channel select commands are being provided to the tuning module the tuning module selects two channels one for each selection command.

The process then proceeds to Step where the set of channels are mixed into a stream of channel data. The channel data is mixed in such a way as to identify the particular source of the channel data the destination of the channel data the select request and or any other identifying information needed to ensure that the appropriate client module receives the appropriate data. As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the stream of channel data may be stored on a hard drive within the multimedia server for subsequent retrieval and or use. As such the multimedia server via a hard drive and appropriate software may perform a digital VCR function or like function.

The process then proceeds to Step where the stream of channel data is transmitted via a communication path to the plurality of client modules. As previously mentioned the communication path may be a wire line communication path RF communication path and or infrared communication path. The transmitting of the stream of channel data may be further defined with reference to Step .

At Step the stream of channel data is formatted for transmission via a transceiving module of the multimedia server. The formatting of the data includes encoding the data utilizing a particular encoding scheme such as multi level encoding non return to zero encoding Manchester encoding block encoding an nB mB encoding where n

As one of average skill in the art will appreciate a single stream of data is provided from the multimedia server to the plurality of client modules. The stream of channel data includes the data corresponding to each selection made by the client modules. Thus each client module receives the entire stream of channel data and extracts only the data relevant to service its particular selection request.

The process then proceeds to Steps and . At Step the stream of channel data is formatted based on the type of transceiving. The type of transceiving corresponds to the modulation scheme utilized which may be TDM FDM ASK PCM PSK et cetera. The processing then proceeds to Step where the formatted channel data is provided to at least one of the plurality of clients during a transmitting interval or multiple transmitting intervals via the wire line connection.

At Step the multimedia server receives formatted select request during receive intervals via the wire line connection. The select requests are formatted based on the type of transceiving used within the multimedia communication system. The type of transceiving corresponds to the modulation scheme utilized which may be TDM FDM ASK et cetera.

As shown data conveyed over the communication path may be done in packets and or frames. The transmission of packets and or frames is divided into transmit intervals and and receive intervals and . During the transmit intervals and the multimedia server is transmitting the stream of channel data to the plurality of client modules . During the receive intervals and one or more of the client modules is transmitting a selection request to the multimedia server.

The client module access the receive intervals and based on any one of a plurality of schemes such as CSMA token ring passing polling by the multimedia server TDM access et cetera. Accordingly the ratio between the transmit intervals and received intervals may be set or may be allocated as needed. For example the receive interval and may occur once for every 10 20 transmit intervals . Alternatively the transmit intervals and receive intervals may be allocated strictly based on a CSMA concept where the multimedia server and each of the client modules monitor the communication path for transmissions. If the path is available the particular entity transmits its data utilizing CSMA with collision avoidance and or CSMA with collision detection. As one of average skill in the art will appreciate there are numerous ways in which data can be conveyed via the communication path between multimedia server and the plurality of client modules to ensure that the stream of channel data is received by the client modules and the client modules have adequate access to the communication path to provide selection commands and or changes to such selections. As a further example the multimedia server may broadcast within the stream of channel data when the communication path will be available for transmitting selection request by the client modules. In addition the broadcasting by the multimedia server may include the identity of which client module or client modules may access the communication path at the allocated received time.

At Step the multimedia server receives formatted select request during receive intervals on the RF communication path. The select requests are formatted based on the type of transceiving.

At Step the multimedia server receives formatted select request during receive intervals on the infrared communication path. The select requests are formatted based on the type of transceiving utilized.

The encoding module includes a plurality of buffers an encoder a buffer controller and a packetizing module . The buffers may be physically separate memory devices or logically separate memory devices. Each of the buffers function as a ring buffer. The buffer controller provides the management of each buffer including head and tail pointer tracking and read and write control.

As shown each of the plurality of selectors is operably coupled to receive a plurality of channels . Based on a respective channel select command each of the selectors outputs an individual selected channel . The plurality of channels may be provided by the multimedia sources previously described with reference to . As one of average skill in the art will appreciate more or less selectors may be included in tuning module . In addition one or more of the selectors may be idle if a limited number of client modules are accessing the multimedia server. Accordingly the encoding module via the buffer controller is aware of which selectors is actively providing selected channel data .

The buffer controller coordinates the writing of the data of the selected channel into the respective buffers . In addition the buffer controller coordinates the reading of the data from each of the buffers into the encoder . The encoder may perform a particular encoding function such as multi level encoding non return to zero encoding Manchester encoding block encoding NB MB encoding where N M. Typically the encoder is utilized to facilitate the accuracy of data transmission from the tuning module to the channel mixer of the multimedia server. As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the encoder may be omitted when the data of the selected channels may be accurately transmitted to the channel mixer.

The packetizing module packetizes the encoded data to produce a plurality of packets. Each packet includes a header section and data section. The header section includes the identity of the selected channel the type of data of the selected channel e.g. audio video text et cetera identity of the particular multimedia source whether the encryption is enabled or disabled the type of encryption used whether compression is enabled or disabled the type of compression used and or a packet sequence number. The packets are provided to bus interface which may include a receiving module . The bus interface provides the packets of encoded set of channels to the shared bus .

In addition the bus interface via the receiving module receives packet . The receiving module processes the packets to retrieve the channel select commands . The channel select command is comprised of the individual channel select commands . The receiving module may include a decoder to decode the data contained within the packets to recapture at least a portion of a channel select command. The decoding performed would be the inverse of the encoding used by the client module.

In operation the selectors select a particular channel based on a channel select command from a plurality of channels . Buffers store the data of the selected channel . The encoder encodes the data to produce encoded channel data. The encoded channel data is received by framing module which frames the data of each of the selected channels into frames that include a header section and data section. The header section includes the identity of the selected channel the type of selected channel the identity of the multimedia source indication as to whether encryption is enabled or disabled the type of encryption used an indication as to whether compression is enabled or disabled the type of compression and or a frame number.

The bus interface receives the framed data and provides it as encoded set of channels on to the shared bus . In addition the bus interface receives frames from the shared bus. The monitoring module interprets the frames at specific time intervals to extract channel select commands .

In operation the tuning module receives select commands from the shared bus via the bus interface . The bus interface provides the received channel select commands to the decoding module . The decoding module includes a deframer or depacketizer module a decoder and a buffer . The deframer or depacketizer extracts data from a received frame or from a received packet. The deframed or depacketized data is provided to the decoder . The decoder recaptures the original data of the selection request by utilizing the inverse function of the encoder within the client module. As such if the client module used Manchester encoding the decoder would use the inverse Manchester encoding function to recapture the data. The recaptured data is then stored in buffer .

If the data is unencrypted and is not compressed the recaptured data is provided to control module and or . Based on the channel select request the control module generates a plurality of channel select commands . The control module provides the channel select commands to the plurality of selectors .

If however the selection request is encrypted and or compressed the encrypted data would be provided to decryption module . Decryption module decrypts the data based on the encryption decryption scheme utilized. For example if the client module utilized a data encryption standard DES encryption technique the decryption module would use the corresponding decryption scheme to recapture the data.

If the data is also compressed the decrypted data or the data from buffer is provided to the decompressing module . The decompressing module utilizes the inverse function that was used to compress the data. As such the recaptured data which has either been decrypted and or decompressed is provided to the control module which produces the corresponding channel select commands .

The selectors output a selected channel based on the respective channel select commands from a plurality of channels . The plurality of selected channels may be provided to a data compression module an encryption module and or directly to the encoding module .

If the selected channels are to be compressed the data compression module utilizes a data compression scheme to compress the data. The data compression scheme may be a zip type function or other known data compression techniques. If the compressed data is to also be encrypted it is provided to encrypting module . Alternatively if the compressed data is to be processed without encryption it would be provided directly to encoding module .

If the data is to be encrypted encrypting module utilizes an encryption scheme to encrypt the data of the selected channels . The encryption scheme utilized may be any one of a variety of known encryption schemes such as DES PGP pretty good protection et cetera. The encrypted data from encrypting module is then provided to encoding module which subsequently encodes the data and provides the encoded data to bus interface for transmission on the shared bus . As previously mentioned the encoder of the encoding module may be omitted such that the encrypted data may be transmitted directly onto the shared bus without further encoding.

The process then proceeds to Step where a plurality of channel selection commands are received. The plurality of channel selection commands are derived from select requests provided by a plurality of client modules wherein each of the channel select commands identifies a particular channel of the plurality of channels. The processing then continues at Step where a channel of the plurality of channels is selected per channel selection command. Note that the selected channel may be from any one of a plurality of multimedia sources.

The process then proceeds to Step where each of the selected channels is encoded based on a data conveyance protocol of the multimedia system. The encoding may be multi level encoding non return to zero encoding Manchester encoding block encoding and or nB mB encoding where n

As one of average skill in the art will appreciate high definition television satellite receivers set top boxes et cetera typically utilize MPEG video data. As such in the typical 6 MHz bandwidth for NTSC channel separation compressed video includes multiple channels in the same frequency band. Thus when a particular channel is selected from one of these multimedia sources multiple compressed channels may be retrieved. Accordingly each of the compressed channels may be encoded as described in Step . As one of average skill in the art will further appreciate prior to the encoding of Step the data may be compressed via a compression technique and or encrypted utilizing an encryption technique.

The process then proceeds to Step where the encoded channel data is conveyed to the channel mixer. The conveying of the encoded data may be done by framing the data from each of the selected channels into frames that include a header section and a data section. Alternatively the encoded channel data may be packetized into packets that include a header section and a data section. The header section of either a packet or frame includes the identity of the selected channel type of data of the selected channel the identity of the multimedia source whether encryption is enabled or disabled the type of encryption used an indication as to whether compression is enabled or disabled the type of compression and or a packet or frame number.

The processing of the plurality of selection requests may be done in one or more of Steps . At Step the channel select request is interpreted to identify at least one of the clients. In addition the request is interpreted to determine the particular channel selection request being made. Based on this information the channel command may be generated.

At Step the client initiating the selection request is authenticated. The authentication determines whether the client is a valid client of the multimedia server. At Step the specific channel selection request made by a client is authenticated. This may be done by determining whether the client has access privileges for the particular channel being requested whether the request is being made within an approved time of the day and or whether a time allotment of accessing multimedia sources has been exceeded. In addition the authentication of the specific channel request may include determining whether the client is authorized to purchase the requested channel from one of the multimedia sources e.g. whether the client is authorized to access pay preview channels and or whether the client has exceeded in the count limit established by the multimedia server.

The process then proceeds to Step where the tuning module decodes the at least one packet based on the data convention protocol of the multimedia system to recapture at least a portion of one of the plurality of channel select commands. Such decoding includes interpreting the header section extracting the data from the data section and determining whether the extracted data contains all of the data of a channel select command or partial data of a channel select command. If the data extracted is a partial select request it is buffered until all of the data related to the channel select command is received.

At Step the tuning module monitors a shared bus at specific time intervals for frames of relevant data. The process then proceeds to Step where the tuning module identifies a data frame at one or the specific time intervals to contain at least a portion of one of the plurality of channel select commands. The process then proceeds to Step where the tuning module decodes the data frame based on the data convention protocol to recapture at least a portion of one of the channel select commands. The decoding includes interpreting the header section extracting the data from the data section and determining whether the data contains a full channel selection command or a partial one. If partial the data is buffered until a full channel select command has been received.

At Step the tuning module decrypts each of the plurality of channel select commands. In addition at Step the tuning module decompresses each of the channel select commands.

The process then proceeds to Step where the tuning module encodes each of the selected channels based on a data convention protocol of the multimedia system. The encoding includes multi level encoding non return to zero encoding Manchester encoding block encoding and or nB mB encoding where n

At Step the control module interprets a channel select request to identify the particular client and the particular request being made. If both are valid the channel selection command is generated.

At Step the control module authenticates the client that provided the specific channel selection request. The authentication of the client verifies that the client is an authorized user of the multimedia system.

At Step the control module authenticates the specific channel selection request. The authentication of the channel selection request includes determining parental control limits subscription verification account limits time of day of the request and or amount of multimedia service accessing over a given duration.

The stream parsing module is operably coupled to receive the encoded channel data from the tuning module. The stream parsing module decodes the encoded channel data to recapture the original data. The stream parsing module then converts the data of each of the selected channels into generic data . The stream parsing module stores the generic data in memory via the memory controller .

The stream parsing module conveys control information and data with the transcoding module . The control information includes the channel select request . As such based on the control information which includes the channel selection request the stream parsing module processes the encoded channel data to produce the generic data .

The data transcoding module retrieves the generic data from memory via the memory controller . The data transcoding module converts the generic data into a stream of data . The conversion of the generic data is dependent upon the particular type of data. For example video data may be stored as digital RGB data digital YCRCB data digitized video et cetera. The transcoding module retrieves the generic video data and converts it into a specific formatted video data such as MPEG 2 and provides that as the stream of data .

If the data is audio data the audio data is stored as generic PCM audio data in memory . The data transcoding module converts the generic PCM digitized audio data into MP3 data MPEG audio data et cetera. If the encoded channel data includes network data the stream parsing module passes the network data to be stored in memory . The data transcoding module retrieves the network data and passes it as the stream of data .

The channel mixer includes a plurality of stream parsing modules memory controller and the data transcoding module . The plurality of stream parsing modules is operably coupled to the tuning module . The tuning module provides the encoded channel data to the channel mixer . In this embodiment each of the stream parsing modules may be processing a particular channel selection request for a particular client module.

Each of the stream parsing modules provides generic data to memory via the memory controller . The transcoding module converts the generic data into the stream of data and provides it to the transceiving module via the system bus .

The transceiving module includes an encoder and modulator for preparing the stream of data for transmission to the client modules. In addition the transcoding module includes a demodulator and decoder for receiving the channel select commands from the plurality of client modules.

The transceiving module provides the channel select commands to the channel mixer via the system bus interface . As coupled the host processor may perform system operational functions for the multimedia server via algorithms stored in the system memory . Such system level functions may be allocation of system multimedia resources managing Internet access client to client communications telephone communications et cetera. As such system level functions will be described in greater detail with reference to .

The MPEG encoding module includes a buffered motion predictor a discrete cosigned transform module a quantizer zigzag module a Huffman encoder and an output bit bucket . The MPEG decoding module includes a dezigzag and dequantizer module an inverse discrete cosign transform module a macro block buffer and a motion compensation and scaling module . The functionality of motion compensation and scaling module and the buffered motion predictor are further described in co pending patent applications entitled U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 09 823 646 entitled ADAPTIVE BANDWIDTH FOOTPRINT MATCHING FOR MULTIPLE COMPRESSED VIDEO STREAMS IN A FIXED BANDWIDTH NETWORK filed Mar. 30 2001 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 107 524 on Jan. 31 2012 and U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 09 819 147 entitled and DEVICE AND METHOD FOR COMPRESSION OF A VIDEO STREAM filed Mar. 27 2001 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 602 847 on Oct. 13 2009 having a docket number VIXS001 and VIXS002. The remaining elements of the MPEG decoding module and MPEG encoding module are known thus no further discussion will be provided except to further illustrate the concepts of the present invention.

Each of the stream parsing modules includes a processor an input bit bucket memory controller memory a plurality of bit stream modules a direct memory access interface and a Huffman decoder . Each of the bit stream modules includes an interpreter . In operation each of the bit stream modules is operably coupled to process one channel of interest of the encoded channel data . The interpreter is utilized to identify which of the channels the particular bit stream module is to process. The bit stream module then filters the channel of interest such that all others are removed. The output of each of the bit stream modules is stored in memory via memory controller .

The processor retrieves the data of each channel of interest from memory and converts it into generic data . The processor causes the generic data to be stored in memory via the memory controller. The processing processor may utilize the input bit bucket to retrieve bytes of data from the memory in a bit stream fashion. As such the input bit bucket performs the function of converting bytes of data which are stored in memory into bits of data which are processed by processor . The input bit bucket may be utilized to retrieve any type of data from memory by processor .

The MPEG encoding module retrieves the generic data under the control of the decoder instruction packet module . The buffered motion predictor receives the generic data and produces therefrom motion compensated data. The motion compensated data is provided to the DCT module which performs a discrete cosine transform upon the data to produce DCT data. The quantizer and zigzag module receives the DCT data and quantizes it and zigzags it before providing the processed data to a Huffman encoder . The Huffman encoder encodes the data to produce the specific formatted data which is provided back to memory via the output bit bucket via memory controller . The output bit bucket converts the bits received from the Huffman encoder and provides it as bytes of data to memory controller .

The memory controller retrieves the MPEG encoded data from memory and provides it as a stream of data via the DMA interface to the system bus . The transceiving module retrieves the stream of data from the system bus and processes it as previously discussed.

The MPEG decoder module may be utilized to decode incoming MPEG data to produce the generic data and or to decode MPEG encoded data received from client modules. The MPEG decoding module under the instruction of the decode instruction packet module receives MPEG encoded data and dezigzags and dequantizes it via the dezigzag and dequantizer module . The dezigzag and dequantized data is provided to the IDCT module which performs an inverse discrete cosine transform function upon the data. The resulting data is then either provided to macroblock buffer or provided to memory via memory controller . The motion compensation and scaler module under the control of the decoder instruction packet module retrieves data either from the macroblock buffer or from memory to perform a motion compensation and scaling function thereon. The resulting data is then either provided back to memory or to the MPEG encoding module .

The digital to analog converter is operably coupled to receive the stream of data and convert it into analog signals . The analog signals may be provided to legacy type client devices that still transceive data in an analog format.

If the channel of interest is included within a group of compressed video channels as would be the case for MPEG 2 encoded video data the channel of interest is retrieved from one of the group of compressed video channels based on header information contained within the packets transporting the encoded channel data. Having identified the particular channel of interest it is isolated from the group of compressed video channels.

The interpretation of Step may further be described with reference to Step . At Step the channel mixer interprets the encoded channel data to identify a series of channels of interest from the set of channels based on a corresponding series of channel selection request. In other words the channel mixer is identifying each channel of interest for each channel selection request being processed. The process then proceeds to Step where the channel mixer processes data each of the series of channels of interest based on the type of channel to produce a series of generic data. The type of channel may be audio data video data text data and or a combination thereof. The processing then proceeds to Step where the series of generic data is converted into a stream of data.

Returning to the main flow of with processing of a single channel selection request the process continues at Step where the channel mixer processes data of the channel of interest based on the type of channel to produce generic data. The processing may include decoding the data filtering the data to isolate the particular channel of interest and then converting the data to the generic data based on the type of data. For example when the type of data is multi channel compress video the processing includes filtering the multi channel compress video to produce the channel of interest. The channel of interest is then converted to generic data which will be described in greater detail with reference to .

Continuing with the examples of the type of data when the type of data is single channel compress video the processing includes passing the single channel compress video as the channel of interest. When the type of data is multi channel digitized video data the multi channel digital video data is filtered to produce the channel of interest when the type of data is single channel digitized video data it is passed as the channel of interest when the type of data is multi channel digital audio it is filtered to produce the channel of interest when the type of data is single channel digital audio it is passed as the channel of interest and when the type of data is network carrier data it is passed as the channel of interest. As such the channel of interest is then converted to the generic data. The process then proceeds to Step where the generic data is converted into a stream of data.

At Step the channel mixer converts video data of the channel of interest into generic video data when the type of data is single channel compress video. Single channel compress video may be from a DVD player or other source that produces a single channel of MPEG 2 or other MPEG standard encoded video data.

At Step the channel mixer converts video data of the channel of interest into generic data when the type of data is multi channel digitized video data. The multi channel digitized video data may be received from a plurality of NTSC television tuners et cetera.

At Step the channel mixer converts video data of the channel of interest into generic video data when the type of data is single channel digitized video data. The single channel digitized video data may be received as the output of a VCR output of a DVD player to a standard antenna or cable connection of a television set an NTSC television tuner et cetera.

At Step the channel mixer converts audio data of the channel of interest into generic audio data when the type of audio data is multi channel digital audio. Multi channel digital audio signals may be received from a satellite broadcast or from multiple digital audio sources such as a CD player DVD audio player et cetera.

At Step the channel mixer converts audio data of the channel of interest into generic audio data when the type of audio data is single channel digital audio. The single channel digital audio may be received from a CD player MP3 player system memory that is storing digitized audio DVD audio player et cetera.

At Step the channel mixer passes network data as the channel of interest when the data being processed is network data. Network data corresponds to one or more client modules accessing the Internet participating in a telephone conversation via the PSTN and or client to client communication.

At Step the channel mixer converts the video data of the channel of interest into MPEG formatted video data. The video data may be the multiple compress video the single channel compress video the multi channel digitized video data and or the single channel digitized video data.

At Step the channel mixer converts the video data of the channel of interest into JPEG formatted video data. At Step the channel mixer converts the video data of the channel of interest into M JPEG formatted video data.

At Step the channel mixer converts the video data of the channel of interest into digital RGB video data. The digital RGB data may be stored in the associated memory device of the multimedia server stored in the host system memory et cetera.

At Step the channel mixer converts the video data of the channel of interest into digital YCBCR video data. The digital YCBCR video data may be stored in the multimedia server memory the host system memory associated with the multimedia server et cetera.

As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the incoming video data from a plurality of multimedia sources may be in a variety of video formats including digitized audio MPEG 1 MPEG 2 et cetera analog format et cetera. The various formatted video data is converted by the channel mixer into a generic video format which may be MPEG JPEG M JPEG digital RGB video data digital YCBCR video data and or any other conventional technique for storing video information in a digital format.

At Step the channel mixer converts the audio data of the channel of interest into MPEG formatted audio data. At Step the channel mixer converts the audio data of the channel of interest into MP3 formatted audio data. At Step the channel mixer converts the audio data of the channel of interest into PCM digitized audio data.

As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the multimedia server may receive a plurality of audio signals having various audio data formats. The channel mixer converts the various audio formats into a single audio format such as MPEG audio MP3 audio and or PCM digitized audio. As one of average skill in the art will further appreciate by converting video data and audio data into generic data formats the multimedia server more readily processes it. The processing of the generic data has been generally described to convert the generic data into a specific formatted data e.g. MPEG 2 video and audio before transmission to the plurality of clients.

At Step the channel mixer converts the generic video data of the channel of interest into specific video data when the original data was multi channel compressed video. The specific video data may be in accordance with the MPEG 2 standard MPEG 1 standard and or any of the other MPEG standards or other standardized process for conveying digitized video.

At Step the channel mixer converts the generic video data of the channel of interest into the specific video data when the original video data was a single channel compressed video signal. At Step the channel mixer converts the generic video data of the channel of interest into the specific video data when the original video data was multi channel digitized video data. At Step the channel mixer converts the generic video data of the channel of interest into the specific video data when the original video data was a single channel digitized video signal.

At Step the channel mixer converts the generic audio data of the channel of interest into specific audio data when the original audio data was multi channel digital audio. At Step the channel mixer converts the generic audio data of the channel of interest into specific audio data when the type of data is single channel digital audio. Note that the specific audio data may be in accordance with the MPEG 2 format MP3 format PCM encoded audio et cetera.

At Step the channel mixer passes network data of the channel of interest without conversion to a specific format. Accordingly the network data is passed via the channel mixer without conversion to a specific format however it is mixed with the other channels of interest to produce the stream of channel data.

As one of average skill in the art will appreciate MPEG encoded video received via a satellite connection or other type connection typically includes multiple channels within a typical 6 Mhz band. As such multiple channels are received within the typical single channel band. As such the video for the channels in the single channel band are decompressed to retrieve the actual video data. From there the channel of interest may be extracted and processed accordingly or all of the channels within the band may be processed into the stream of data.

As one of average skill in the art will further appreciate the stream of data is essentially a multiplexing of the specific formatted video data for each of the channel of interest. As such when two channels of interest are being conveyed to the plurality of client modules each channel comprises approximately 50 of the stream of data. Accordingly as the number of channels of interest is being processed the corresponding percentage of the stream of data decreases but decreases proportionally.

The processing proceeds to Step where the channel mixer separates the channels of interest from the set of channels based on the type of data. The process then proceeds to Step where the channel mixer processes the data of the channels of interest based on the type of data to produce generic data. Such processing was previously described with reference to . The process then proceeds to Step where the channel mixer converts the generic data into a stream of data. This was previously described with reference to .

The client module is operably coupled to the client system bus via a system bus interface . The system bus interface may couple the client module to external serial and or parallel ports of the client device and or internal interfaces within the client device. Such external interfaces include universal serial bus USB serial port IR port parallel port et cetera. Internal connections include PCI bus AC 97 interface and or any interface that allows a peripheral component to interface with the memory bridge of a host device.

The network interface controller is operably coupled to the multimedia server which may be any one of the multimedia servers shown in . The network interface controller receives packets and or frames from the multimedia server and extract data for a channel of interest . In essence the network interface controller monitors the packets on the communication path with the multimedia server to identify packets that are addressing the client module . When such packets and or frames are identified the network interface controller extracts the data from the frames and or packets and provides the data to the video decoder and or the rendering module .

The video decoder decodes the data to produce display data. The display data may be stored in the embedded memory . The rendering module retrieves the display data from the embedded memory and provides it as rendered video images to the client device. As such the rendering module prepares the data for display by a display of the client device.

The network interface controller includes a transmitting module and the receiving module . The receiving module receives encoded channel data which may be in packet form or in frames. The receiving module interprets the packets and or frames to extract data for the particular channel of interest . The extracted data is placed on bus for storage and RAM . The data is subsequently retrieved from memory by the video decoder to produce decoded video data. The decoded video data is stored once again in the memory . The rendering module subsequently retrieves the decoded video data from memory and processes it to produce rendered video images . The rendered video images are then provided onto the client system bus for subsequent display. Note that the client device includes a display which includes a video display and or audio display.

If the encoded channel data includes frames and or packets of audio data for the client module the receiving module provides the audio data to audio processor which prefers the audio data for display. The prepared audio data may be stored in for subsequent playback or provided to the client system bus .

In addition the audio processor may receive audio signals via microphone . The audio processor processes the audio signals from microphone and either provides them to the client system bus or to the memory . If the audio data from microphone is to be transmitted to the multimedia server the transmitting module subsequently retrieves the audio data from and provides it to the multimedia server.

The request module receives the selection request from the client device. As previously discussed the selection request identifies the particular channel of interest that the client desires to access from the multimedia server. The transmitting module prepares the selection request for transmission to the multimedia server via the communication path. The transmitting module utilizes an encoding and or modulation scheme in accordance with the data conveyance protocol of the multimedia communication system.

The client module may also include interfacing for receiving video signals from a video camera via video processor . The video processor processes video signals from the video camera and either provides them to the client system bus or stores them in RAM . If the stored video signals are to be provided to the multimedia server the transmitting module retrieves the video data from RAM and prepares them for transmission. The preparation of video data for transmission is in accordance with the data conveyance protocol used within the multimedia communication system. As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the memory controller controls the reading and writing of data to and from RAM . As one of average skill in the art will also appreciate the client module may have interfaces for connecting to an audio processor and or video processor where such devices may be included in the client device.

The process continues at Step where the client module receives the set of channels as a stream of data from a multimedia server. The receiving may further include decoding the stream of data to recapture data of the channel of interest i.e. the channel corresponding to the one requested by the client module s client . The decoding may include one or more of multi level decoding non return to zero decoding Manchester decoding block decoding and or nB mB decoding where n

The process then proceeds to Step where the client module interprets segments of the stream of data to identify data corresponding to the channel of interest. The segments may be frames and or packets of data that include header information. The header information includes identity of the client module the source of the data et cetera such that the client module may readily identify the particular packets and or frames destined for the client module. The process then proceeds to Step where the client module interprets the data of the channel of interest to determine the type of data where the type of data may be audio data video data and or text data.

The process then proceeds to Step where the client module processes the data of the channel of interest based on the type of data to produce processed data. The process then proceeds to Step where the client module provides the processed data to the client for display.

The process then proceeds to Step where the dezigzagged data is dequantized. The process then proceeds to Step where the dequantized data has an inverse discrete cosine transform function performed upon it. The process then proceeds to Step where motion compensation and or scaling function is performed upon the IDCT data to produce the YUV data. The YUV data may then be converted into RGB data and stored in memory. As one of average skill in the art will appreciate both YUV data and RGB data may be maintained for use by the client module and or associated client device.

Returning to the flow of processing video data the process continues at Step where the YUV data and or the RGB data is stored in a frame buffer e.g. the memory of the client module and or memory of the client device as the processed data. The process then proceeds to Step where the client module retrieves the YUV data and or RGB data from the frame buffer at a display rate to produce retrieved display data. The process then proceeds to Step where the client module renders the retrieved display data for display. The rendered data is provided to the client device for subsequent display.

If the type of data is audio data the process proceeds to Step . At Step the client module converts the audio data of the channel of interest into PCM data. The process then proceeds to Step where the client module stores the PCM data in a frame buffer e.g. the RAM within the client module and or memory of the client device as processed data. The process then proceeds to Step where the client module retrieves the PCM data from the frame buffer at a display rate. The process then proceeds to Step where the client module provides the retrieved display data to at least one speaker assembly either associated with the client module and or within the client device.

If the type of data is application data the process proceeds to Step . At Step the client module stores the application data in memory as the processed data. Note that the application data corresponds to data received via an Internet connection client to client communication and or telephone communication. The process then proceeds to Step where the client module retrieves the processed data from memory. The process then proceeds to Step where the client module provides the processed data to a processor. The processor may be within the client device and or the processor within the client device.

The process then proceeds to Step where the processor generates video data from the processed data. The process then proceeds to Step where the video data is provided for display by the client device.

The process then proceeds to Step where the client module interprets the input signal to determine the type of signal being requested. The process then proceeds to Step where the client module determines that the type of signal as either video audio application or control. If the type of signal is audio the process proceeds to Step where the client module processes the audio signal to produce generic audio data. This may be done as shown at Step where the client module converts the audio data into MPEG formatted audio data MP3 formatted audio data and or PCM digitized audio data.

The process then proceeds to Step where the client module converts the generic audio data into a stream of data. This may be done as shown in Step where the client module encodes the generic audio data based on a data conveyance protocol to produce the stream of data. The type of encoding may include one or more of multi level encoding non return to zero encoding Manchester encoding block encoding and or nB mB encoding where n

The process then proceeds to Step where the client module transmits the stream of data to the multimedia server. The transmission of the stream of data includes packetizing and or framing the data in accordance with the data conveyance protocol used by the multimedia communication system. In addition the transmission of the stream of data may include utilizing a modulation scheme such as TDM FDM ASK PSK et cetera.

If the client module determines that the type of signal is control signals the process proceeds to Step . At Step the client module determines whether the control information relates to a local command or a system level command. The process then proceeds to Step where the client module determines the system level or local level command. If it is a system level command the process proceeds to Step where the client module processes the control information for conveyance to the multimedia server to produce a control message. The processing of the control information may include encoding the control message based on the data conveyance protocol of the multimedia communication system and utilizing the data conveyance protocol which may include packetizing and or framing the data as well as utilizing a modulation scheme such as CSMA CSMA with collision avoidance and or CSMA with collision detection for packets of data and time division multiplexing and or frequency division multiplexing for frames of data.

The processing then proceeds to Step where the client module transmits the control message to the multimedia server. The control message may include the channel selection request which identifies the particular channel of interest for processing by the client module.

If the type of control information relates to a local command the process proceeds to Step . At Step the client module locally processes the input signal to provide the channel of interest to the client. Accordingly the client module may interpret the control information which includes a channel selection request and determines that another client is already accessing that particular channel. As such the client module simply extracts the channel data destined for the other client and utilizes it to service its client.

If the client module determines that the type of signal is application related the process proceeds to Step . At Step the client module processes the input signal to produce processed application data. The application data may be data related to a network application such as email and or web browser a telephone communication and or a client to client communication. Such processing for a telephone communication would include the similar functionality that the handset performs in a cordless telephone.

The processing for data within the Internet access is simply functioning as a terminal to provide input selections and or received data from the multimedia server which performs the network applications. The process then proceeds to Step where the client module transmits the process application data to the multimedia server. The process application data is formatted in accordance with the data conveyance protocol of the multimedia communication system which includes encoding and or a modulation scheme.

As shown in if the type of signal is video the processing continues at Step . At Step the client module processes the video signal to produce generic video data. This may be done in one of a variety of ways as shown in Steps . At Step the client module converts the video signal of the channel of interest into MPEG formatted video data. At Step the client module converts the video signal of the channel of interest into JPEG formatted video data. At Step the client module converts the video signal of the channel of interest into MPEG formatted video data. At Step the client module converts the video signal of the channel of interest into digital RGB video data. At Step the client module converts the video signal of the channel of interest into digital YCBCR video data. As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the client module is performing a similar function as the multimedia server performs when conveying video and or audio data to the multimedia server.

Returning to the main processing of video data the process continues at Step where the client module converts the generic video data into a stream of data. This may be done as shown at Step where the client module encodes the generic video data based on a data conveyance protocol of the multimedia communication system. The data conveyance protocol may include a particular type of encoding such as Manchester encoding multi level encoding et cetera and also a corresponding modulation scheme such as FDMA TDMA CSMA CSMA with collision avoidance or CSMA with collision detection. The process then proceeds to Step where the stream of data is transmitted as either packets or frames to the multimedia server.

Once the network access application is open or if the application was already open the process proceeds to Step . At Step the multimedia server processes data of at least one of the packets in accordance with the network access application to produce network data. The network access application may be an email application web browser application and or any application that allows a user to access the Internet or other wide area network. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server determines how to access a network connection e.g. a modem for transmission of the network data. Accessing the network connection is based on a client access to network connection scheme which will be subsequently discussed. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server transports the network data via the network connection to a wide area network based on the determined network access.

The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server logs a destination address and or source address for each packet of network data transmitted via the network connection. The logging enables the multimedia server to accurately track the appropriate destination within the multimedia communication system for the received data when it receives a response via the wide area network. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server receives network packets via the network connection. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server interprets a header section of the network packets to identify a response to the network data. The response includes an identifier that identifies the particular destination within the multimedia communication system. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server provides the network packets to the particular client associated with the network data.

At Step the multimedia server utilizes a token passing scheme among the clients that currently have an active network access application to determine access to the network connection. At Step the multimedia server utilizes a queuing scheme of the network data for each client that has a currently active network access application open. The queuing scheme may be based on a first in first out buffering arrangement. At Step the multimedia server responds to a request for access to the network connection from the resources within the channel mixer processing the particular request.

The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server determines whether the packet relates to client to client data or network data. For client to client data the process proceeds to Step where the multimedia server processes the packet to produce processed client packets. Such processing includes packetizing the client to client communication for subsequent transmission to one or more other clients within the multimedia communication system.

The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server multiplexes the process client packets for transmission to the plurality of clients which yields multiplex client packets. The process client packets are also multiplexed with network data destined for clients video data destined for clients and or audio data destined for clients. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server transmits the multiplex client data to the plurality of clients in accordance with the data conveyance protocol used within the multimedia communication system.

If the packet corresponds to network data the process proceeds to Step where the multimedia server identifies at least one of the clients from the packet. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server determines whether a network access application is active for the particular client. If not the process proceeds to Step where the multimedia server opens a network access application e.g. email and or web browser application for the particular client.

Once a network application is open or has been opened the process proceeds to Step where the multimedia server processes data of the network packets in accordance with the network access application to produce network data. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server determines access to the network connection for transmission of the network data based on the client access to network connection scheme. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server transports the network data via the network connection to a wide area network based on the determine network access. The determination of Step has been explained in greater detail with reference to and the determination of Step has been explained in greater detail with reference to .

The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server determines whether a network access application is active for the particular client. The network application may be an email application and or a web browser application. If the particular network access application is not active the process proceeds to Step where the multimedia server opens one for the particular client.

With a network access application open the process proceeds to Step where the multimedia server processes data of the network packets to produce client data. The processing of the data may include preparing display data corresponding to the execution of the network application upon the incoming network packets and storing the resulting data as client data. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server multiplexes client data for transmission to the plurality of clients. The client data may be multiplexed with other data destined for the clients such other data includes video data audio data and or other application data. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server transmits the multiplex client data to the plurality of clients in accordance with the data conveyance protocol of the multimedia communication system.

The processing continues at Step where the multimedia server receives client to client packets from at least one client. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server processes the client to client packets to produce processed client packets. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server multiplexes the processed client packets with other client data for transmission to the plurality of clients. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server transmits the multiplex client data to the plurality of clients.

The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server determines whether the client request is valid at step . The determination of whether the client request is valid may be based on whether the particular client has access to the particular video program that is being requested determining whether the particular channel that is being selected exceeds parental control settings and or determining whether the clients request is received during an assigned access time. Accordingly the assigned access time period corresponds to the time of day in which the user of the particular module may access services from the multimedia server. If the client request is not valid the process proceeds to Step where the multimedia server denies the request.

If however the request is valid the process proceeds to Step . At Step the multimedia server determines whether the multimedia system has sufficient resources to fulfill the client request. The determination of whether the multimedia system has sufficient resources includes determining whether the tuning module has the capacity to accommodate the client request the channel mixer has sufficient processing resources to process the client request and or whether the communication path between the multimedia server and the plurality of clients has sufficient bandwidth to accommodate the client request.

The process then proceeds to Step where a determination is made as to whether sufficient resources exist. If they do the process proceeds to Step . At Step the multimedia server allocates at least some of the resources to fulfill the client request based on a multimedia system resource allocation procedure. The multimedia system resource allocation procedure includes allocating the resources in a first come first serve basis allocating the resources in a trunked manner and or allocating the resources based on a predetermined assignment of particular resources to a particular client. Accordingly a particular tuner stream parsing module may be allocated to a particular client. As such these resources would remain idle unless the particular client desires access to the multimedia system.

In addition to allocating the resources as shown in Step the multimedia system may also provide the functionality as shown in Steps . At Step the multimedia server determines whether the system has access available resources. If not the process reverts to Step . If so the process proceeds to Step where the multimedia server determines whether the client has enhance feature privileges. The enhance feature privileges allow the client s favorite channels to be selected and processed by the multimedia server previous channel next channel picture in picture et cetera. If the client does not have the enhance features the process reverts to Step . If however the client has advanced features the process proceeds to Step . At Step the multimedia server allocates further resources to support the enhance features of the client.

If sufficient resources are not available the process proceeds to which provides a variety of alternatives for handling insufficient resources. One such approach is to remove the enhance features provided to particular clients to make resources available. Alternate processes are shown at Steps and .

At Step the multimedia server determines whether an alternate multimedia service is available for the particular client. This may be done as shown in one or more of Steps . At Step the multimedia server for a video program adjusts the resolution of the display to a default resolution which reduces the processing requirements. At Step the multimedia server for a video program adjusts the video quality to a default video quality which reduces the processing requirements to prepare the video data for the client.

At Step the multimedia server queries the client to select an alternative multimedia service. The query may include a listing of channels currently being serviced and requesting that the client select one of those and or select an alternate resolution video quality et cetera. At Step the multimedia server automatically selects an alternative multimedia service based on pre programmed alternate selections. In essence the client may pre program its default settings or alternate multimedia services as opposed to being directly queried.

At Step the multimedia server determines whether the client request has priority over currently serviced other client request. If so the process proceeds to Step where the multimedia server preempts currently serviced client s to obtain the resources to fill the present client request. If the current client request does not have priority over at least one other currently serviced client the present client s request is denied and the client may be requested to access an alternative multimedia service.

At Step the multimedia server determines whether allocation of resources can be reallocated to fill the client request. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server adjusts allocation of the resources to fulfill the client request when the resources can be reallocated. The determination of whether resources can be reallocated is further described in Steps and . At Step the multimedia server monitors the use of the resources in comparisons of the capabilities of the resources. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server adjusts the allocation of resources when the use of at least some of the resources is not optimal. For example if a particular resource is most efficient when processing compressed video from an HDTV source satellite source et cetera and is currently processing audio signals the resource may be reallocated to process video signals while another resource is used to process the audio signals.

If however the request is valid the process proceeds to Step where the multimedia server determines whether the multimedia system has sufficient resources available to fulfill the client request. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server branches based on whether sufficient resources exist. If sufficient resources exist the process proceeds to Step . At Step the multimedia server allocates best matched resources to fulfill a client request. If sufficient resources do not exist the processing at is utilized.

To determine the best match resources to fulfill the client request Steps may be utilized. At Step the multimedia server maintains a listing of resource capabilities for each of the plurality of resources. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server determines the type of resources needed to support the client request. The process then proceeds to Step where the multimedia server performs a best match analysis to identify the best match resources based on the resource capabilities and the type of resources needed. For example resources within a tuning module and or channel mixer may be most efficient when processing compressed video data from a satellite connection while others may be more adept at processing audio signals. As such when a request for access to compressed video signal is received the multimedia server attempts to allocate the resources that are best fitted to process the compressed video. Correspondingly when a request for access to an audio source is received the multimedia server attempts to allocate the best resources to fulfill the audio request.

The preceding discussion has presented a method and apparatus for a multimedia communication system. The multimedia communication system allows a plurality of clients to have apparent direct access to a variety of audio sources video sources the internet the public switch telephone network et cetera without the typical receiving and transmitting circuitry associated with conventional direct access to such services. As one of average skill in the art will appreciate other embodiments may be derived from the teaching of the present invention without deviating from the scope of the claims.

