---

title: Semi-automatic generation of multimedia content
abstract: A method for multimedia content generation includes receiving a textual input, and automatically retrieving from one or more media databases a plurality of media items that are relevant to the textual input. User input, which selects one or more of the automatically-retrieved media items and correlates one or more of the selected media items in time with the textual input, is received. A video clip, which includes an audio narration of the textual input and the selected media items scheduled in accordance with the user input, is constructed automatically.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09396758&OS=09396758&RS=09396758
owner: Wochit, Inc.
number: 09396758
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140202
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 874 496 filed May 1 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 640 748 filed May 1 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 697 833 filed Sep. 7 2012. The disclosures of all these related applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to multimedia generation and particularly to methods and systems for semi automatic generation of multimedia content.

An embodiment of the present invention that is described herein provides a method for multimedia content generation. The method includes receiving a textual input and automatically retrieving from one or more media databases a plurality of media items that are relevant to the textual input. User input which selects one or more of the automatically retrieved media items and correlates one or more of the selected media items in time with the textual input is received. A video clip which includes an audio narration of the textual input and the selected media items scheduled in accordance with the user input is constructed automatically.

In some embodiments retrieving the media items includes automatically deriving one or more search queries from the textual input and querying the media databases with the search queries. In an embodiment retrieving the media items includes assigning ranks to the retrieved media items in accordance with relevance to the textual input filtering the media items based on the ranks and presenting the filtered media items to a human moderator for producing the user input. In another embodiment receiving the user input includes receiving from a human moderator an instruction to synchronize a selected media item with a component of the textual input and automatically constructing the video clip includes synchronizing the selected media item with a narration of the component in the audio narration.

In some embodiments receiving the textual input includes estimating occurrence times of respective components of the audio narration and automatically constructing the video clip includes scheduling the selected media items in accordance with the estimated occurrence times. In an example embodiment estimating the occurrence times is performed before receiving the audio narration. In a disclosed embodiment receiving the user input is performed before receiving the audio narration.

In another embodiment automatically constructing the video clip includes defining multiple scheduling permutations of the selected media items assigning respective scores to the scheduling permutations and scheduling the selected media items in the video clip in accordance with a scheduling permutation having a best score. In yet another embodiment automatically constructing the video clip includes dividing a timeline of the video clip into two or more segments and scheduling the selected media items separately in each of the segments. Dividing the timeline may include scheduling a video media asset whose audio is selected to appear as foreground audio in the video clip configuring a first segment to end at a start time of the video media asset and configuring a second segment to begin at an end time of the video media asset. In still another embodiment automatically constructing the video clip includes training a scheduling model using a supervised learning process and scheduling the selected media items in accordance with the trained model.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention apparatus for multimedia content generation including an interface and a processor. The interface is configured for communicating over a communication network. The processor is configured to receive a textual input to automatically retrieve from one or more media databases over the communication network a plurality of media items that are relevant to the textual input to receive user input which selects one or more of the automatically retrieved media items and correlates one or more of the selected media items in time with the textual input to receive an audio narration of the textual input and to automatically construct a video clip which includes an audio narration of the textual input and the selected media items scheduled in accordance with the user input.

The present invention will be more fully understood from the following detailed description of the embodiments thereof taken together with the drawings in which 

Embodiments of the present invention that are described herein provide improved methods and systems for generating multimedia content. In the disclosed embodiments a video generation system receives textual input for which a video clip is to be generated. The textual input may comprise for example a short article relating to entertainment business technology general news or other topic. The system generates a video clip based on the textual input using a semi automatic human assisted process that is described in detail below.

The video clip generation process is mostly automatic and reverts to human involvement only where human input has the strongest impact on the quality of the video clip. As a result the time and cost of generating video clips are reduced to a minimum while still producing highly professional clips. Moreover the disclosed techniques generate video clips virtually in real time shortening the turnaround time needed for presenting breaking news to end users.

In some embodiments the video generation system analyzes the textual input for example using contextual analysis algorithms so as to extract descriptive metadata. The system queries various media databases using the extracted metadata so as to retrieve media assets that are likely to be related to the textual input. Media assets may comprise for example video and audio excerpts still images Web page snapshots maps graphs graphics elements social network information and many others. The system ranks and filters the media assets according to their relevance to the textual input and presents the resulting collection of media assets to a human moderator.

The task of the moderator is largely editorial. The moderator typically selects media assets that will appear in the video clip and correlates one or more of them in time with the textual input. In some embodiments the presentation times of at least some media assets are set automatically by the system.

In some embodiments audio narration of the textual input is not yet available at the moderation stage and the moderator uses an estimation of the audio timing that is calculated by the system. The system thus receives from the moderator input which comprises the selected media assets and their correlation with the textual input. Moderation typically requires no more than several minutes per video clip.

Following the moderation stage the video generation process is again fully automatic. The system typically receives audio narration of the textual input. The audio narration is typically produced by a human narrator after the moderation stage and possibly reviewed for quality by the moderator. The system generates the video clip using the audio narration and the selected media assets in accordance with the moderator input. The system may include in the video clip additional elements such as background music and graphical theme. The video clip is then provided as output optionally following final quality verification by a human.

As noted above the methods and systems described herein considerably reduce the time and cost of producing video clips. In some embodiments the disclosed techniques are employed on a massive scale for converting a large volume of textual articles into video clips using a shared pool of moderators and narrators.

In the example of system receives the textual inputs from a client system and returns the video clips to the client system. A video generation system of this sort may be used for example for providing a publisher with video clips based on textual articles received from the publisher. System communicates with client system over a communication network e.g. the Internet. In alternative embodiments however system may obtain textual inputs from any other suitable source and deliver video clips to any other suitable destination. System can thus be used in a variety of business models and modes of operation.

The details of the video generation process performed by system will be explained in detail below. Generally system communicates over network with one or more media databases DBs so as to retrieve media assets that are related to the textual input. The media assets are also referred to as media items and may comprise for example video and or audio excerpts still images Web page snapshots maps graphs graphical elements social network information and many others. Media DBs may comprise for example content Web sites social network servers or any other suitable database.

System presents the textual input and the corresponding automatically retrieved media assets to a human moderator using a moderator terminal . The figure shows a single moderator for the sake of clarity. A real life system however will typically use multiple moderators for handling multiple textual inputs and video clips simultaneously. Moderator reviews and selects media assets that will be included in the video clip and arranges the media assets so as to correlate in time to the timing of the textual input. The moderator thus produces moderator input which is fed back to system over network .

In addition to moderator input system further receives audio narration of the textual input in question. The audio narration is produced by a narrator using a narrator terminal and provided to system over network . Although the figure shows a single narrator for the sake of clarity a real life system will typically use multiple narrators. Based on moderator input and audio narration system automatically produces video clip . Video clip is delivered over network to client system . In some embodiments the automatically generated video clip is verified by moderator before delivery to client system . Audio narration is also optionally verified for quality by moderator .

In the example of system comprises an interface for communicating over network and a processor that carries out the methods described herein. The system configuration shown in is an example configuration which is chosen purely for the sake of conceptual clarity. In alternative embodiments any other suitable system configuration can be used.

The elements of system may be implemented using hardware firmware such as in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA using software or using a combination of hardware firmware and software elements. In some embodiments processor comprises a general purpose processor which is programmed in software to carry out the functions described herein. The software may be downloaded to the processor in electronic form over a network for example or it may alternatively or additionally be provided and or stored on non transitory tangible media such as magnetic optical or electronic memory.

In various industries it is becoming increasingly important to generate video clips with low cost and short turnaround time. For example news Web sites increasingly prefer to present breaking news and other stories using video rather than text and still images. Brands may wish to post on their Web sites video clips that are relevant to their products. Publishers such as entertainment Web sites may wish to publish topic centered video clips. Multi Channel Networks MCNs may wish to create video clips in a cost effective way for blog content.

System generates video clips using a unique division of labor between computerized algorithms and human moderation. The vast majority of the process is automatic and moderator is involved only where absolutely necessary and most valuable. As a result system is able to produce large volumes of high quality video clips with low cost and short turnaround time.

Processor analyzes the textual input at an input processing step . Typically processor applies contextual analysis to the textual input so as to extract metadata that is descriptive of the subject matter and content of the article in question. Using the extracted metadata processor generates one or more search queries for querying media databases . In some embodiments processor summarizes the textual input e.g. to a certain target length and then performs contextual analysis and query generation on the summarized article.

At a data retrieval step system queries media databases over network using the automatically generated search queries so as to retrieve media assets . The media assets may comprise any suitable kind of media items such as video excerpts audio excerpts still images Web page snapshots maps graphs graphics elements and social network information.

The retrieved media assets are all likely to be relevant to the textual input since they were retrieved in response to search queries derived from the textual input. Nevertheless the level of relevance may vary. Processor assigns relevance scores to the media assets and filters the media assets based on the scores at a filtering step . The filtering operation typically comprises discarding media assets whose score falls below a certain relevance threshold.

When processing video assets processor may assign relevance scores to specific parts of a video asset not only to the video asset as a whole. For example the video asset may be previously tagged by moderators to identify portions of interest or it may comprise a time aligned transcript of the video that enables processor to identify portions of interest.

The output of step is a selected collection of ranked media assets which are considered most relevant to the textual input. System presents this output to moderator over network using terminal . At this stage human moderation begins.

In an embodiment moderator initially critiques the textual input and the selected media assets at a verification step . In an embodiment the moderator verifies whether the textual input indeed answers the editorial needs of the system. For example the moderator may verify whether the article content is interesting enough to justify generation of a video clip. The moderator may validate and optionally edit the textual input before it is provided to narrator for narration.

Additionally or alternatively moderator may proactively search for additional media assets that were not retrieved automatically by system and add such media assets to the collection. The moderator may also validate the article topics that were suggested by the system and fix them if necessary. In an embodiment moderator rates the media assets that were suggested by system . The rating can be used to train the system improve its enrichment mechanisms and enhance the automatic asset retrieval process. Further additionally or alternatively the moderator may critique and or modify the textual input and or the automatically selected media assets in any other suitable way.

The moderator selects the media assets that will actually be included in the video clip and correlates them with the textual input at an asset configuration step . Typically system estimates the expected duration of voice narration of the textual input even though the actual narration is not available at this stage and indicates the expected duration to the moderator. This indication helps the moderator determine the number and types of media assets he should select.

If the total duration of the media assets chosen by the moderator is smaller than the expected duration of the narration system may abort the process altogether or attempt to find additional media assets possibly assets that have been filtered out at step .

Moderator may perform additional filtering of the media assets on top of the filtering performed by processor based on editorial considerations. For example the moderator may prefer media assets that are likely to be more attractive to the client. Within video assets the moderator may mark particular segments to be included in the video clip e.g. specific phrases or sentences from a long speech.

When a video asset comprises an audio soundtrack the moderator may configure the use of this audio in the video clip. For example the moderator may decide to use the original audio from the video asset as foreground audio or as background audio in the video clip or discard the original audio and use only the video content of the video asset.

In an embodiment the moderator indicates that a specific media asset is to be synchronized with a specific component of the textual input e.g. with a specific word. This indication will later be used by processor when scheduling the media assets in the final video clip.

Additionally or alternatively moderator may configure the media assets to be included in the video clip in any other suitable way. The output of the human moderation stage is referred to herein as moderator input denoted in or user input that is fed back to system over network .

At a narration input step system receives audio narration of the textual input from narrator . The narrator may divide the textual input into segments and narrate each segment as a separate task. In embodiment of the audio narration is received after the moderation stage. In alternative embodiments however the audio narration may be received and stored in system at any stage before generation of the final video clip.

In some embodiments system processes the audio narration in order to improve the audio quality. For example the system may automatically remove silence periods from the beginning and end of the audio narration and or perform audio normalization to set the audio at a desired gain. In some embodiments moderator reviews the quality of the audio narration. The moderator may approve the narration or request the narration to be repeated e.g. in case of mistakes intolerable audio quality such as background noise wrong pronunciation or for any other reason.

At this stage processor automatically constructs the final video clip at a clip generation step . Processor generates the video clip based on the moderator input the audio narration and the media assets selected and configured by the moderator. Processor may use a video template e.g. a template that is associated with the specific client. The final video clip generation stage is elaborated below.

In an embodiment moderator validates the final video clip at a final validation step . The moderator may discard the video clip altogether e.g. if the quality of the video clip is inadequate. After validation the video clip is provided to client system . The flow of operations shown in is depicted purely by way of example. In alternative embodiments any other suitable flow can be used.

In some embodiments processor constructs the final video clip by scheduling the selected media assets over a timeline that is correlated with the audio narration. Scheduling of the media assets is performed while considering the constraints given by the moderator step of with regard to synchronization of media assets to words or other components of the narrated text.

In some embodiments processor produces a timing estimate for the narration. The timing estimate gives the estimated occurrence time of each word or other component in the audio narration. In some embodiments processor derives the timing estimate from the textual input independently of the actual audio narration. In many cases the timing estimate is produced before the audio narration is available. Processor may use any suitable process for producing the timing estimate from the textual input. An example process is detailed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 874 496 cited above. In other embodiments the audio narration is already available to processor when producing the timing estimate. In these embodiments the processor may derive the timing estimate from the audio narration rather than from the textual input. The output of this estimation process is narrated text with time markers that indicate the timing of each word or other component.

In some embodiments processor divides the narrated text into segments. The borders of each segment are either the start or end points of the entire narrated text or the estimated timing of media segments that include foreground audio e.g. video assets that will be displayed in the final video clip with the original audio and without simultaneous narration . Processor then schedules media assets separately within each segment.

In the present example the moderator instructed that a video asset is to be synchronized to a particular word and therefore occur at a time T2 on the timeline. Times T1 and T2 mark the beginning and end of the entire narrated text respectively. The moderator has also decided that the original audio track of this video asset will be used as foreground audio in the final video clip. Therefore there is no narration track to be played during the playing time of this video asset.

In this example processor divides the narrated text into two segments denoted S1 T1 T2 and S2 T2 T3 . The video asset in question is scheduled to appear between the two segments. Within each segment processor schedules the media assets that will appear in the segment.

Typically each type of media asset has a minimal and a maximal allowed duration and therefore not all combinations of media assets can be scheduled in each segment. For example if the duration of segment S1 is estimated to be four seconds and the minimal duration of a still image asset is configured to be two seconds then no more than two still images can be schedule in this segment.

In some embodiments processor selects media assets for each segment by calculating multiple possible permutations of media asset scheduling and assigning each permutation a score. The score of a permutation is typically assigned based on factors such as 

Additionally or alternatively processor may use any other suitable criteria for calculating the scores of the various scheduling permutations.

For a given segment processor schedules the media assets in accordance with the permutation having the best score. In some embodiments processor also schedules video template components such as visual effects and transitions between successive media assets.

In some embodiments processor applies a supervised learning algorithm to perform the automatic media asset scheduling i.e. automatic timeline generation process. The features for training such a model can be derived from the contextual metadata of the article and the narrated text. The target feature i.e. examples of correct and or incorrect placement of a media asset in a given segment can be derived from feedback of moderator . In the training stage the scheduling process is assisted by the moderator. After training processor can generate the timeline in a fully automatic manner based on the trained model.

In various embodiments processor may schedule the audio in the video clip in different ways. For example processor may choose background music for the video clip depending on the contextual sentiment of the textual input possibly in conjunction with predefined templates. Processor typically receives as input a list of audio tracks The audio narration of the textual input the background track or tracks effects for transition between media assets raw audio of the media assets e.g. original audio that is part of a video asset . Processor adds the audio tracks to the timeline including transitions between the different audio tracks. Transition rules between audio tracks are typically applied based on the applicable template e.g. by performing cross fade between different tracks.

Processor typically performs video rendering based on the selected visual assets e.g. template related visual objects video assets still images maps Web pages and transitions and audio assets e.g. audio narration background music effects and natural sounds from video assets according to the generated time line. Rendering may also be performed automatically using an Application Programming Interface API to a suitable rendering module. An optional manual validation step may follow the rendering process.

It will be appreciated that the embodiments described above are cited by way of example and that the present invention is not limited to what has been particularly shown and described hereinabove. Rather the scope of the present invention includes both combinations and sub combinations of the various features described hereinabove as well as variations and modifications thereof which would occur to persons skilled in the art upon reading the foregoing description and which are not disclosed in the prior art. Documents incorporated by reference in the present patent application are to be considered an integral part of the application except that to the extent any terms are defined in these incorporated documents in a manner that conflicts with the definitions made explicitly or implicitly in the present specification only the definitions in the present specification should be considered.

