---

title: System and method for concept development with content aware text editor
abstract: A computer program product residing on a computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored thereon which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations including providing a visual representation of a product concept comprising a textual component comprising at least one dynamic textual element and at least on static textual element and providing text editing functionality of the textual component such that a selection of any text forming a part of the at least one dynamic textual element automatically results in the selection of the entire at least one dynamic textual element wherein the text editing functionality comprises changing a format of at least a part of the at least one dynamic textual element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09208132&OS=09208132&RS=09208132
owner: THE NIELSEN COMPANY (US), LLC
number: 09208132
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140313
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 415 720 filed Mar. 8 2012.

The Ser. No. 13 415 720 application claims the benefit of the following U.S. provisional patent applications each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety U.S. provisional patent application Ser. Nos. 61 450 531 61 450 546 and 61 450 559 all entitled CONCEPT STUDIO METHOD AND SYSTEM and all filed on Mar. 8 2011 and U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 506 503 entitled CONCEPT STUDIO METHOD AND SYSTEM and filed on Jul. 11 2011.

This application also claims the benefit of the following provisional application which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 787 028 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT WITH CONTENT AWARE TEXT EDITOR which was filed on Mar. 15 2013.

The present disclosure relates to concept development and more particularly relates to concept development for products and services.

In industrial settings the process of developing new products and services may often involve a number of cycles that include divergent or generative ideation phases followed by narrowing or selection phases in which the ideas are assessed and tested and decisions made further to develop or market an idea. One example of a divergent or generative activity is the well known brainstorming or ideation session. Examples of narrowing activities include concept testing concept optimization conjoint measurement and forecasting models.

Several activities carried out during the product development process can be used to support either phase depending on how they are structured. For example focus groups and 1 on 1 interviews with consumers can be used during the ideation phase as open ended processes for generating new ideas. They can also be used to assess and test the viability of an already formulated concept for a new product or service.

Typically general purpose office software applications are used to capture and organize the different ideas and their elements and the many variants for each of these elements. Spreadsheet applications such as Microsoft Excel and Apple Numbers are commonly used for that purpose and word processing applications such as Microsoft Word and Apple Pages are also used. Presentation software applications such as Microsoft PowerPoint and Apple Keynote are also commonly used to develop visual representations of the proposed product concepts. Microsoft Excel and PowerPoint are all trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both Apple Notes Pages and Keynote are all trademarks of Apple Inc. in the United States other countries or both. 

The use of such common office productivity applications which are not optimized for the task of developing and exploring concepts with varying elements presents a number of difficulties and challenges that result in poor productivity. For example the use of disparate applications one for capturing the idea elements and their variants and another for visually representing the idea itself presents a set of challenges when it comes to communicating and sharing this information with the other stakeholders involved in the product development process. Two different documents may need to be shared or emailed back and forth between individuals participating in the concept development process. Furthermore it may be desired that the contents of the documents be kept up to date and synchronized throughout the various collaborative editing and commenting sessions.

The use of a presentation application to generate visual representations of the new idea or concept often leads to a number of difficulties as well. For example for every concept variation that is desired to be represented a copy of the original representation slide must be created and the elements that are different edited typically by copying and pasting from element variants in the spreadsheet document . If some other element is changed multiple slides may have to be updated. Because of the repetitive nature of this process it may often only be practical to generate a tiny fraction of the possible alternatives enabled by the element variants.

Typically the outcome of the generative phases in the product development process is a set of ideas and variations thereof. It may often be desirable that a product idea be described and represented in a way sufficient to differentiate it from other ideas and if it fits into an existing product category to differentiate it from in market incumbents in particular competitors products . The description must also be appropriate for use in the next phase of the development process be it presenting the idea to senior management for approval or using the description and representation to conduct consumer research in order to assess the viability of the idea. Accordingly it may often be necessary to generate various different versions of a representation to allow possible points of differentiation to be explored.

In accordance with an exemplary and non limiting embodiment a computer program product residing on a computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored thereon which when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations including providing a visual representation of a product concept comprising a textual component comprising at least one dynamic textual element and optionally including one or more static textual elements and providing text editing functionality of the textual component such that a selection of any text forming a part of the at least one dynamic textual element automatically results in the selection of the entire at least one dynamic textual element wherein the text editing functionality comprises changing a format of at least a part of the at least one dynamic textual element.

According to a first implementation a method may include providing a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept. The visual representation may include one or more of a textual component and a graphical component. A designation may be received of an element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a dynamic element. The dynamic element may be associated with a variant list including one or more element variants. A selection may be received of a first element variant from the variant list. A first instantiation of the visual representation may be generated including the first element variant as the dynamic element.

One or more of the following features may be included. Receiving the designation of the element may include receiving a user selection of the element from within one or more of the textual component and the graphical component. Receiving the designation of the element may include identifying an escape sequence within one or more of the textual component and the graphical component. The element may include an image within the graphical component. The element may include one or more words within the textual component.

Associating the dynamic element with the variant list may include receiving a user input including the one or more element variants. The method may also include receiving a selection of a second element variant from the variant list. A second instantiation of the visual representation may be generated including the second element variant as the dynamic element.

In another implementation a text editor is provided for editing the content of textual component which may be aware of the presence of a dynamic textual element within a textual component and may modify its behavior and the corresponding user interaction accordingly. The text editor may provide one or more of the following features and functionality a when user selects for editing any text within a dynamic element forcing the selection automatically to cover the entire dynamic element b not allowing editing of the content of a dynamic element c limiting the editing of a dynamic element to format editing only e.g. changing font style such as bolding and italicizing d propagating such formatting changes applied to the dynamic element to all variants of said dynamic elements e allowing normal editing of both content and formatting of any textual content adjoining the dynamic element within the textual component.

In another implementation a system includes one or more processors configured to provide a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept the visual representation including one or more of a textual component and a graphical component one or more processors configured to receive a designation of an element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical components as a dynamic element one or more processors configured to associate the dynamic element with a variant list including one or more element variants one or more processors configured to receive a selection of a first element variant from the variant list and one or more processors configured to generate a first instantiation of the visual representation including the first element variant as the dynamic element.

One or more of the following features may be included. Receiving the designation of the element may include receiving a user selection of the element from within one or more of the textual component and the graphical component. Receiving the designation of the element may include identifying an escape sequence within one or more of the textual component and the graphical component. Associating the dynamic element with the variant list may include receiving a user input including the one or more element variants. In some embodiments the element may include an image within the graphical component. In some embodiments the element may include one or more words within the textual component.

In another implementation a system including one or more processors configured to provide text editing functionality where only certain editing functionality may be allowed for certain types of textual content including textual content identified as dynamic text. Said computer program including instructions to perform one or more of the following functions a when user selects for editing any text within a dynamic element forcing the selection automatically to cover the entire dynamic element b not allowing editing of the content of a dynamic element c limiting the editing of a dynamic element to formatting only e.g. changing font style such as bolding and italicizing d propagating such formatting changes applied to the dynamic element to all variants of said dynamic elements e allowing normal editing of both content and formatting of any textual content adjoining the dynamic element within the textual component.

In another implementation a computer program product residing on a computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored thereon which when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations including providing a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept the visual representation including one or more of a textual component and a graphical component receiving a designation of an element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a dynamic element associating the dynamic element with a variant list including one or more element variants receiving a selection of a first element variant from the variant list and generating a first instantiation of the visual representation including the first element variant as the dynamic element.

One or more of the following features may be included. In some embodiments the receiving the designation of the element may include receiving a user selection of the element from within one or more of the textual component and the graphical component. Receiving the designation of the element may include identifying an escape sequence within one or more of the textual component and the graphical component. Associating the dynamic element with the variant list may include receiving a user input including the one or more element variants. In some embodiments the element may include an image within the graphical component. In some embodiments the element may include one or more words within the textual component.

In another implementation a computer program product residing on a computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored thereon which when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations including providing text editing functionality where only formatting editing may be allowed to be applied to certain types of textual content including textual content identified as dynamic text. Said computer program including instructions to perform one or more of the following functions a when user selects for editing any text within a dynamic element forcing the selection automatically to cover the entire dynamic element b not allowing editing of the content of a dynamic element c limiting the editing of a dynamic element to formatting only e.g. changing font style such as bolding and italicizing d propagating such formatting changes applied to the dynamic element to all variants of said dynamic elements e allowing normal editing of both content and formatting of any textual content adjoining the dynamic element within the textual component.

According to another implementation a method may include providing a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept. The visual representation may include one or more of a textual component and a graphical component. A designation may be received of a first element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a first dynamic element. A designation may be received of a second element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a second dynamic element. The first dynamic element may be associated with a first variant list including one or more first element variants. The second dynamic element may be associated with a second variant list including one or more second element variants. A constraint may be associated between at least one of the one or more first element variants and at least one of the one or more second element variants. A selection may be received of a first element variant from the first variant list. A selection may be received of a second element variant from the second variant list. A first instantiation of the visual representation may be generated including the first element variant as the first dynamic element and the second element variant as the second dynamic element based upon the constraint.

One or more of the following features may be included. The constraint may include a prohibitory constraint. The constraint may include a permissive constraint. The constraint may be based on one or more of a business rule a logical rule and an algebraic rule. Generating the first instantiation of the visual representation may include generating an error based on the constraint. The error may include an identification of a constraint violation. The error may include a suggestion of an alternate second element variant.

In another implementation a system includes one or more processors configured to provide a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept the visual representation including one or more of a textual component and a graphical component one or more processors configured to receive a designation of a first element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a first dynamic element one or more processors configured to receive a designation of a second element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a second dynamic element one or more processors configured to associate the first dynamic element with a first variant list including one or more first element variants one or more processors configured to associate the second dynamic element with a second variant list including one or more second element variants one or more processors configured to associate a constraint between at least one of the one or more first element variants and at least one of the one or more second element variants one or more processors configured to receive a selection of a first element variant from the first variant list one or more processors configured to receive a selection of a second element variant from the second variant list and one or more processors configured to generate a first instantiation of the visual representation including the first element variant as the first dynamic element and the second element variant as the second dynamic element based upon the constraint.

One or more of the following features may be included. The constraint may include a prohibitory constraint. The constraint may include a permissive constraint. The constraint may be based on one of a business rule and a logical rule. Generating the first instantiation of the visual representation may include generating an error based on the constraint. The error may include an identification of a constraint violation. The error may include a suggestion of an alternate second element variant.

In another implementation a computer program product residing on a computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored thereon which when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations including providing a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept the visual representation including one or more of a textual component and a graphical component receiving a designation of a first element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a first dynamic element receiving a designation of a second element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a second dynamic element associating the first dynamic element with a first variant list including one or more first element variants associating the second dynamic element with a second variant list including one or more second element variants associating a constraint between at least one of the one or more first element variants and at least one of the one or more second element variants receiving a selection of a first element variant from the first variant list receiving a selection of a second element variant from the second variant list and generating a first instantiation of the visual representation including the first element variant as the first dynamic element and the second element variant as the second dynamic element based upon the constraint.

One or more of the following features may be included. The constraint may include a prohibitory constraint. The constraint may include a permissive constraint. The constraint may be based on one or more of a business rule a logical rule and a mathematical rule. Generating the first instantiation of the visual representation may include generating an error based on the constraint. The error may include an identification of a constraint violation. The error may include a suggestion of an alternate second element variant.

In an embodiment a method may include providing a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept. The visual representation may include one or more of a textual component and a graphical component. A designation may be received of an element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a dynamic element. The dynamic element may be associated with a variant list including a plurality of element variants. A selection may be received of a subset of the plurality of element variants from the variant list. A first instantiation of the visual representation may be generated including a combination of the subset of the plurality of element variants as the dynamic element.

One or more of the following features may be included. Receiving the selection of the plurality of element variants may include receiving layout information associated with the plurality of element variants. The layout information may include order information associated with the plurality of element variants. The layout information may include presentation information associated with the plurality of element variants. The layout information may include position information associated with the plurality of element variants.

In another implementation a method for editing the textual content of a text component on a page where specific editing functionality may be allowed or unavailable depending on the type textual content selected within the text component. The method may include the following aspects a when user selects for editing any text within a dynamic element forcing the selection automatically to cover the entire dynamic element b not allowing editing of the content of a dynamic element c limiting the editing of a dynamic element to format editing only e.g. changing font style such as bolding and italicizing d propagating such formatting changes applied to the dynamic element to all variants of said dynamic elements e allowing normal editing of both content and formatting of any textual content adjoining the dynamic element within the textual component.

In another implementation a system includes one or more processors configured to provide a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept the visual representation including one or more of a textual component and a graphical component one or more processors configured to receive a designation of an element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a dynamic element one or more processors configured to associate the dynamic element with a variant list including a plurality of element variants one or more processors configured to receive a selection of a subset of the plurality of element variants from the variant list and one or more processors configured to generate a first instantiation of the visual representation including a combination of the subset of the plurality of element variants as the dynamic element.

One or more of the following features may be included. Receiving the selection of the subset of the plurality of element variants may include receiving layout information associated with the plurality of element variants. The layout information may include order information associated with the plurality of element variants. The layout information may include presentation information associated with the plurality of element variants. The layout information may include position information associated with the plurality of element variants.

In another implementation a computer program product residing on a computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored thereon which when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations including providing a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept the visual representation including one or more of a textual component and a graphical component receiving a designation of an element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a dynamic element associating the dynamic element with a variant list including a plurality of element variants receiving a selection of a subset of the plurality of element variants from the variant list and generating a first instantiation of the visual representation including a combination of the subset of the plurality of element variants as the dynamic element.

One or more of the following features may be included. Receiving the selection of the subset of the plurality of element variants may include receiving layout information associated with the plurality of element variants. The layout information may include order information associated with the plurality of element variants. The layout information may include presentation information associated with the plurality of element variants. The layout information may include position information associated with the plurality of element variants.

In an implementation a method may include identifying a dynamic element within framework for building a visual representation of a product concept. The visual representation may include one or more of a textual component and a graphical component. The dynamic element may be associated with a variant list including one or more variant elements. One of a longest variant element and a shortest variant element may be identified from within the variant list. A first instantiation of a visual representation of a product concept may be generated including the one of the longest variant element and the shortest variant element as the dynamic element.

One or more of the following features may be included. Identifying the dynamic element may include identifying a plurality of dynamic elements each of the plurality of dynamic elements associated with a respective variant list of a plurality of variant lists. Identifying one of the longest variant element and the shortest variant element may include identifying one of the longest variant element associated with each of the plurality of dynamic elements and the shortest variant element included within a respective variant list associated with each of the plurality of dynamic elements. Identifying one of the longest variant element and the shortest variant element included within a respective variant list associated with each of plurality of dynamic elements may be based on a constraint associated between two or more dynamic elements.

Generating the first instantiation of the visual representation may include adjusting a formatting of the visual representation based on the one of the longest element variant and the shortest element variant. Adjusting the formatting of the visual representation may include altering a size property associated with one or more components of the visual representation. Altering the size property associated with one or more components of the visual representation may include altering the size property based on one or more format rules.

In another implementation a system includes one or more processors configured to identify a dynamic element within framework for building a visual representation of a product concept the visual representation including one or more of a textual component and a graphical component the dynamic element associated with a variant list including one or more variant elements one or more processors configured to identify one of a longest variant element and a shortest variant element from within the variant list and one or more processors configured to generate a first instantiation of a visual representation of a product concept including the one of the longest variant element and the shortest variant element as the dynamic element.

One or more of the following features may be included. Identifying the dynamic element may include identifying a plurality of dynamic elements where each of the plurality of dynamic elements may be associated with a respective variant list of a plurality of variant lists. In some embodiments identifying either the longest variant element or the shortest variant element may include identifying either the longest variant element associated with each of the plurality of dynamic elements or the shortest variant element which may be included within a respective variant list which may be associated with each of the plurality of dynamic elements. Identifying either the longest variant element or the shortest variant element included within a respective variant list associated with each of plurality of dynamic elements may be based on a constraint associated between two or more dynamic elements. Generating the first instantiation of the visual representation may include adjusting a formatting of the visual representation based on either the longest element variant or the shortest element variant. Adjusting the formatting of the visual representation may include altering a size property associated with one or more components of the visual representation. Altering the size property associated with one or more components of the visual representation may include altering the size property based on one or more format rules.

In another implementation a computer program product residing on a computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored thereon which when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations including identifying a dynamic element within framework for building a visual representation of a product concept the visual representation including one or more of a textual component and a graphical component the dynamic element associated with a variant list including one or more variant elements identifying one of a longest variant element and a shortest variant element from within the variant list and generating a first instantiation of a visual representation of a product concept including the one of the longest variant element and the shortest variant element as the dynamic element.

One or more of the following features may be included. Identifying the dynamic element may include identifying a plurality of dynamic elements where each of the plurality of dynamic elements may be associated with a respective variant list of a plurality of variant lists. In some embodiments identifying either the longest variant element or the shortest variant element may include identifying either the longest variant element associated with each of the plurality of dynamic elements or the shortest variant element which may be included within a respective variant list which may be associated with each of the plurality of dynamic elements. Identifying either the longest variant element or the shortest variant element included within a respective variant list associated with each of plurality of dynamic elements may be based on a constraint associated between two or more dynamic elements. Generating the first instantiation of the visual representation may include adjusting a formatting of the visual representation based on either the longest element variant or the shortest element variant. Adjusting the formatting of the visual representation may include altering a size property associated with one or more components of the visual representation. Altering the size property associated with one or more components of the visual representation may include altering the size property based on one or more format rules.

According to an implementation a method may include providing a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept. The visual representation may include one or more of a textual component and a graphical component. A designation may be received of a first element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a dynamic element. The dynamic element may be associated with a variant list including one or more element variants. A second element may be identified corresponding to the first element. The second element may be linked with the first element. A selection may be received of a first element variant from the variant list. A first instantiation of the visual representation may be generated including the first element variant as the dynamic element and including the first element variant as the second element.

One or more of the following features may be included. Receiving the designation of the element may include receiving a user selection of the element from within one or more of the textual component and the graphical component. Identifying the second element corresponding to the first element may include searching at least one of the textual component and the graphical component based on the first element.

Linking the second element with the first element may include replacing the second element with an escape sequence associated with the dynamic element. Linking the second element with the first element may include receiving a linking designation. Associating the dynamic element with the variant list may include receiving a user input including the one or more element variants.

The method may further include receiving a selection of a second element variant from the variant list. A second instantiation of the visual representation may be generated including the second element variant as the dynamic element and including the second element variant as the second element.

In another implementation a system includes one or more processors configured to provide a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept the visual representation including one or more of a textual component and a graphical component one or more processors configured to receive a designation of a first element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a dynamic element one or more processors configured to associate the dynamic element with a variant list including one or more element variants one or more processors configured to identify a second element corresponding to the first element one or more processors configured to link the second element with the first element one or more processors configured to receive a selection of a first element variant from the variant list and one or more processors configured to generate a first instantiation of the visual representation including the first element variant as the dynamic element and including the first element variant as the second element.

One or more of the following features may be included. Receiving the designation of the element may include receiving a user selection of the element from within one or more of the textual component and the graphical component. Identifying the second element corresponding to the first element may include searching at least one of the textual component and the graphical component based on the first element. Linking the second element with the first element may include replacing the second element with an escape sequence associated with the dynamic element. Linking the second element with the first element may include receiving a linking designation. Associating the dynamic element with the variant list may include receiving a user input including the one or more element variants. The system may include one or more processors configured to receive a selection of a second element variant from the variant list and one or more processors configure to generate a second instantiation of the visual representation including the second element variant as the dynamic element and including the second element variant as the second element.

In another implementation a computer program product residing on a computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored thereon which when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations including providing a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept the visual representation including one or more of a textual component and a graphical component receiving a designation of a first element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a dynamic element associating the dynamic element with a variant list including one or more element variants identifying a second element corresponding to the first element linking the second element with the first element receiving by the one or more processors a selection of a first element variant from the variant list and generating a first instantiation of the visual representation including the first element variant as the dynamic element and including the first element variant as the second element.

One or more of the following features may be included. Receiving the designation of the element may include receiving a user selection of the element from within one or more of the textual component and the graphical component. Identifying the second element corresponding to the first element may include searching at least one of the textual component and the graphical component based on the first element. Linking the second element with the first element may include replacing the second element with an escape sequence associated with the dynamic element. Linking the second element with the first element may include receiving a linking designation. Associating the dynamic element with the variant list may include receiving a user input including the one or more element variants. The computer program product may include receiving a selection of a second element variant from the variant list and generating a second instantiation of the visual representation including the second element variant as the dynamic element and including the second element variant as the second element.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium also herein referred to as a computer readable medium and or a storage device associated with a computing device or client electronic device may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any non transitory medium that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages and or in scripting languages such as JavaScript programming language or the Groovy programming language. Furthermore various application programming interfaces APIs and or application development frameworks such as the Dojo or Grails development frameworks may be used in writing the computer program. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Referring to there is shown concept development process that may reside on and may be executed by server computer which may be connected to network e.g. the Internet or a local area network . Examples of server computer may include but are not limited to a personal computer a server computer a series of server computers a mini computer and a mainframe computer. Server computer may be a web server or a series of servers running a network operating system examples of which may include but are not limited to Microsoft Windows Server Novell NetWare or Red Hat Linux for example. Microsoft and Windows are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both Novell and NetWare are registered trademarks of Novell Corporation in the United States other countries or both Red Hat is a registered trademark of Red Hat Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States other countries or both. 

As will be described in greater detail below concept development process may provide a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept. The visual representation may include one or more of a textual component and a graphical component. Concept development process may also receive a designation of an element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical components as a dynamic element. The dynamic element may be associated with a variant list including one or more element variants. Concept development process may receive a selection of a first element variant from the variant list. Concept development process may also generate a first instantiation of the visual representation including the first element variant as the dynamic element.

The instruction sets and subroutines of concept development process which may include one or more software modules and which may be stored on storage device coupled to server computer may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory modules not shown incorporated into server computer . Storage device may include but is not limited to a hard disk drive a solid state drive a tape drive an optical drive a RAID array a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM .

Server computer may execute a web server application examples of which may include but are not limited to Microsoft IIS Novell Webserver or Apache HTTP Server Apache Tomcat application server that allows for HTTP i.e. HyperText Transfer Protocol access to server computer via network Webserver is a trademark of Novell Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Apache and Tomcat are registered trademarks of Apache Software Foundation in the United States other countries or both . Network may be connected to one or more secondary networks e.g. network examples of which may include but are not limited to a local area network a wide area network or an intranet for example.

In general concept development process may provide a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept. For example concept development process may allow text and or graphics associated with the concept to be developed arranged and or manipulated. The visual representation may include but is not limited to product information e.g. for market study or consumer focus group research advertisements whether in print or online advertisement campaigns promotional campaigns package designs architectural designs website and e commerce site designs including navigation schemes the design or graphical user interfaces for computers and other electronic devices. Concept development process may be accessed by one or more client applications e.g. client applications thereby facilitating virtual meetings and or remote collaboration. Examples of client application may include but are not limited to web browsers e.g. Safari Chrome Internet Explorer Safari is a trademark of Apple Inc. in the United States other countries or both Chrome is a trademark of Google Inc. in the United States other countries or both Internet Explorer is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United Sates other countries or both or purpose specific application that permit access to concept development process.

In addition as an alternative to being a server side process the concept development process may be a client side process not shown that may reside on a client electronic device described below and may interact with a client application e.g. one or more of client applications . Further the concept development process may be a hybrid server side client side process that may interact with server side concept development process and a client application e.g. one or more of client applications . As such the concept development process may reside in whole or in part on server computer and or one or more client electronic devices.

The instruction sets and subroutines of client applications which may be stored on storage devices respectively coupled to client electronic devices respectively may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory modules not shown incorporated into client electronic devices respectively . Storage devices may include but are not limited to hard disk drives solid state drives tape drives optical drives RAID arrays random access memories RAM read only memories ROM compact flash CF storage devices secure digital SD storage devices and a memory stick storage devices. Examples of client electronic devices may include but are not limited to personal computer laptop computer mobile computing device such as a smart phone netbook tablet computer or the like notebook computer for example. Each of client electronic devices may execute an appropriate operating system for example Mac OS iOS Android OS Windows or other suitable operating system. Mac OS is a trademark of Apple Inc. in the United States other countries or both iOS is a trademark of Cisco Systems Inc. Android is a trademark of Google Inc. in the United States other countries or both Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United Sates other countries or both. 

Using client applications users may access concept development process and may e.g. create visual representations of a product concept. Users may access concept development process directly through the device on which the client application e.g. client applications is executed namely client electronic devices for example. Users may access concept development process directly through network or through secondary network . Further server computer i.e. the computer that executes concept development process may be connected to network through secondary network as illustrated with phantom link line .

The various client electronic devices may be directly or indirectly coupled to network or network . For example personal computer is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Further notebook computer is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Laptop computer is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between laptop computer and wireless access point i.e. WAP which is shown directly coupled to network . WAP may be for example an IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g Wi Fi and or Bluetooth device that is capable of establishing wireless communication channel between laptop computer and WAP . Mobile computing device is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between mobile computing device and cellular network bridge which is shown directly coupled to network .

As is known in the art all of the IEEE 802.11x specifications may use Ethernet protocol and carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance i.e. CSMA CA for path sharing. The various 802.11x specifications may use phase shift keying i.e. PSK modulation or complementary code keying i.e. CCK modulation for example. As is known in the art Bluetooth is a telecommunications industry specification that allows e.g. mobile phones computers and personal digital assistants to be interconnected using a short range wireless connection.

In general concept development process may provide one or more tools and or features that may facilitate the development of product concepts. As used herein a product may include either a product or a service in the most general commercial sense. Examples of products may include for example fast moving consumer goods as may be found in a supermarket such as salad dressing frozen dinners dairy products laundry detergent fabric softener disposable utensils pet food and other pet supplies such as cat litter soap shampoo toothpaste and other personal grooming products and cosmetics. Other examples of products may include consumer goods such as cameras personal computers gaming consoles telephone handsets. Products may also include durables goods such as automobiles and their accessories white goods washers dryers dishwashers refrigerators television sets musical instruments furniture building materials and so on. Products may also include sporting goods such as skis ski boots tennis rackets bicycle athletic shoes and so on. Products may also include clothing and apparel such as shoes ties shirts dresses coats and so on. Products as used herein may also include pharmaceutical products both over the counter remedies such as analgesics cold and flu medications and antacids as well as prescription drugs for various conditions such as COPD diabetes high blood pressure and elevated cholesterol levels as well as medical devices and their accessories.

Services which may also be included under the general term products may include for example financial services offerings such as credit cards plans checking savings and investment accounts investments products such as mutual funds and retirement plans insurance products such as life insurance policies or health insurance plans. Other examples of services may include telecommunications plans for cellular telephones or for internet access cable TV and land line telephone service transportation services vacation plans news delivery plans and so on. Further examples of products and services as used herein may include restaurant menus and offerings including those of fast food restaurants.

Products may also include without limitation advertisements whether in print or online advertisement campaigns promotional campaigns products and services catalogues package designs architectural designs website and e commerce site designs including website navigation schemes the design or graphical user interfaces for computers and other electronic devices storyboards for TV or online video advertisements storyboards for movies movie trailers TV series and so on.

In the fast moving consumer goods industry for example where product innovation and testing are conducted with high frequency the representation of a new product idea may often follow a relatively standardized structure. For example typically a concept card or concept representation may be generated and may include elements such as a a brand name and a sub brand if applicable and an associated brand logo b an insight or need state that may typically include a small paragraph setting out the consumer need or pain point which the product proposes to address c a paragraph introducing the new product and setting out its benefits which may generally address the above need state d one or more sentences listing features of the product e a reason s to believe paragraph explaining how the features would function to address the need state and deliver the above stated benefit f a representation of the product form or package design g mood imagery. Additional alternative elements and or combinations of elements may be equally utilized. For example in the case of a pharmaceutical product the relevant elements used to represent the product may include a the condition to be treated and the prescribing context b the drug form and dosage c one or more efficacy claims for the drug d one or more potential side effects e relative cost of a dose.

Concept development process may include one or more tools and or features that may facilitate the development organization and presentation of several variants for one or more of the elements listed in the above examples for possible consideration of use associated with the product. For example several need states for which a new product would be relevant may be developed furthermore several ways of describing each of the need states may also be developed. As another example a pharmaceutical scientist may be considering a given compound for treating different conditions and may be considering a range of dosing options. As a result of the combinatorial nature of the situation the number of potential variations on a given idea can quickly rise to hundreds and thousands of alternatives often exceeding several millions. For example it only takes 10 variants for each of 6 elements to generate 1 million alternatives for a given idea. Concept development process may include one or more tools and or features that may facilitate the development organization and presentation of various combinations of the various elements.

Referring also to according to one aspect concept development process may provide a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept. The visual representation may include one or more of a textual component and a graphical component. Concept development process may also receive a designation of an element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical components as a dynamic element. The dynamic element may be associated with a variant list including one or more element variants. Concept development process may receive a selection of a first element variant from the variant list. Concept development process may also generate a first instantiation of the visual representation including the first element variant as the dynamic element.

A visual representation of a concept may for example be used to describe and communicate an idea such as a new product or service concept. Referring also to concept development process may provide a framework for developing a visual representation of a concept. For example in an embodiment concept development process may for example allow a user e.g. user to select via client application a template upon which to build the visual representation. For example concept development process may provide template selection interface . Template selection interface may allow user to select various template attributes. For example concept development process may allow user to select e.g. via an onscreen pointer controlled by a pointing device such as a mouse not shown a visual representation orientation e.g. from within frame a general visual representation structure e.g. from within frame and a visual representation layout e.g. from within frame . Further concept development process may provide preview of the template for the visual representation. While template selection interface has been shown including various template orientations structures and layouts such features are intended for the purpose of illustration only and should not be construed as a limitation on the present disclosure as other template selection interfaces and features therein may be equally utilized. In addition as an alternative to the use of a template selection interface the orientation structure and layout for the visual representation may be otherwise defined by the user e.g. through the placement of text boxes and or graphical components within an unconstrained framework. Further in some embodiments the user may utilize a previously constructed visual representation of a concept either a related concept or an unrelated concept that may be modified in content and or structure and or layout for the creating a new visual representation of a new concept.

Referring also to in an example embodiment visual representation user interface for developing a visual representation of a product concept may include one or more of a textual component e.g. textual components and a graphical component e.g. graphical components . Additionally one or more of the textual components and or graphical components may be further divided into subcomponents e.g. textual component may include subcomponents . Concept generation process may receive a designation of an element within at least one of the textual components and the graphical components as a dynamic component. Element within at least one of the textual components and the graphical components may include a portion of a textual component or a graphical component and or the element may in some embodiments include the entirety of a textual component or a graphical component. For example the element may include an image within a graphical component and or may include one or more words e.g. a word a word fragment and or portions thereof which may include one or more characters symbols and or character symbol strings etc. .

In an embodiment a dynamic element may include an element that may change. For example the dynamic element may change to provide different content. Additionally alternatively the dynamic element may change to take a different content form e.g. may change to replace a textual element with a graphical element or may change to replace a graphical element with a textual element . Further in some embodiments the dynamic element may change to replace one of a textual element or a graphical element with a mixed element e.g. an element including both text and graphics .

Receiving the designation of the element may include receiving a user selection of the element from within one or more of the textual component and the graphical component. For example and referring also to user may wish to make a portion of the text within textual component dynamic. Accordingly user may select the desired text that user intends to designate as a dynamic element e.g. element for example by highlighting the text using onscreen pointer . Further user may designate element as being a dynamic element e.g. by selecting variant button from within the menu bar. In additional alternative embodiments user may designate element as being a dynamic element by right clicking on highlighted element e.g. which may result in concept development process rendering a pop up or other user interface not shown which may provide the option to designate the selected element as being a dynamic element.

In an embodiment receiving the designation of the element may include identifying an escape sequence within one or more of the textual component and the graphical component. For example and referring still to user may replace e.g. via text editing functionality provided by concept development process the text Cool confident and indulgent. Cocktails make you the perfect host with an escape sequence e.g. Text Element A not shown . Additionally alternatively during creation of textual component rather than providing the text Cool confident and indulgent. Cocktails make you the perfect host user may provide e.g. input via client application the escape sequence. Concept development process may identify the escape sequence Text Element A as being an indication of a dynamic element having an identifier Text Element A. In response to identifying the escape sequence concept development process may receive a designation of the escape sequence as a dynamic element.

Concept development process may associate the dynamic element with a variant list including one or more element variants. For example concept development process may generate a list e.g. list interface in visual representation interface . Concept development process may link the list to dynamic element in visual representation interface . In an embodiment the list e.g. represented in list interface may include an identifier of the dynamic element e.g. dynamic element name Text Element A . The list may include one or more element variants e.g. elements that may be utilized as the dynamic element in a visual representation of the design concept .

In an embodiment associating the dynamic element with the variant list may include receiving a user input including the one or more element variants. In an embodiment in which user may select an element from within visual representation interface as dynamic element concept development process may provide the selected element as first element variant namely Cool confident and indulgent. Cocktails make you the perfect host in the illustrated example . In an embodiment in which user may provide an escape sequence that may be identified by concept development process concept development process may provide an input field that may allow user to define one or more element variants that may be utilized as dynamic element .

In an embodiment concept development process may provide an interface e.g. input field through which user may input one or more additional element variants. In response to user entering an element variant into input field and selecting add button concept development process may receive the user input including the additional element variants and may include the additional element variants in the associated list. For example and referring also to list associated with dynamic element may include a plurality of element variants e.g. element variants . In addition as an alternative to inputting individual element variants in some embodiments a link to a spreadsheet which may include textual component links to graphical components or the like CSV file which may include textual component links to graphical components or the like image url s etc. may be provided e.g. input into input field . In response to inputting a link or other reference concept development process may import element variants associated with a link or referenced file and may add such element variants to the variant list.

Concept development process may receive a selection of a first element variant from the list. For example as shown in element variant may be selected by user e.g. by selecting via onscreen pointer bullet associated with element variant in list . In addition as an alternative to receiving a selection based on a user input concept development process may receive a selection of a first element variant from the variant list based on one or more configuration settings and or rules. For example a configuration setting may include a random selection of a first element variant from the variant list. In another example a configuration setting may include a selection of the first element variant added to the variant list the last element variant added to the variant list or other element variant included on the list. Various additional alternative configuration settings and or rules may be implemented for selection of the first element variant that may be received by concept development process. One or more of the configuration setting and or rules may be invoked e.g. based on a user selection e.g. for a random selection or other similar invocation.

In response to receiving the selection of the first element variant from list concept development process may generate a first instantiation of the visual representation . First instantiation of the visual representation may include the first element variant i.e. Cool confident and indulgent. Cocktails make you the perfect host in the illustrated embodiment as the dynamic element.

In an embodiment concept development process may receive a selection of a second element variant from list . For example as shown in user may select via onscreen pointer bullet associated with element variant i.e. Our mixologists have taken the guesswork out of serving sophisticated cocktails with their ready to serve top shelf collection from list . In response to user selecting bullet concept development process may generate a second instantiation of the visual representation shown in . Second instantiation of the visual representation may include the second element variant i.e. Our mixologists have taken the guesswork out of serving sophisticated cocktails with their ready to server top shelf collection as the dynamic element.

Consistent with the foregoing in an embodiment the concept development process may allow an element within a visual representation of a concept to be designated as a dynamic element. The concept development process may further associate a list of element variants with the dynamic element. The list of element variants may include one or more than one element variants. The concept development process may further allow different element variants to be utilized as the dynamic element in various instantiations of the visual representation of the concept e.g. in response to receiving a selection of an element variant. For example in response to a user selecting a desired element variant the concept development process may automatically generate an instantiation of the visual representation of the concept in which the selected element variant may be utilized as the dynamic element for the purposes of the instantiation of the visual representation. As such it may be possible for the user to create multiple different instantiations of visual representation of the concept including different element variants without having to manually revise the visual representation.

In some embodiments it may be desirable to apply different textual formatting attributes to the different textual elements within a textual component. This may be accomplished by providing text editing and formatting functionality which is activated when user double clicks and or enters the appropriate keyboard sequence . shows such a large text component which occupies the left half of the concept having just been placed in Edit mode. This is indicated by the line surrounding that text component changing to a dashed line as well as the appearance of a typical text formatting toolbar at the top of the text component. In a typical text component however some of the textual elements may be static text while others may be dynamic textual elements. For example and referring again to the word Introducing is static while SwissCare is a dynamic element as indicated by the line under it representing a particular instance of the Company Name element.

In an embodiment it may be desirable to limit the range of available editing functionality within a textual component depending on the type of content being edited. For example it may be desirable to prevent the editing of dynamic text content directly on the concept representation and to permit such editing only within the List Interface the right hand panel in also in . This may be desirable in order to ensure that the user is aware of and sees all variants available for that dynamic element while editing one of these variants. Or it may also be desirable in order to keep the user interface and user interaction less complicated and cluttered. This may be accomplished by making the text editing functionality shown in activated in aware of the type of content being selected for editing.

Consistent with the foregoing in an embodiment after placing a textual component in Edit mode the ability to select textual elements within that text component may depend on the type of that text element. In an embodiment any part of a static text element may be selected in the way typical of any text editing application simply by clicking and dragging the edit cursor over the desired letter or letters word or words sentence or paragraph s . Referring again to with the text component in Edit mode the user was able to select part of the work Introducing specifically trod . However attempting to select any part of a dynamic text element will automatically cause the entire element to be selected. This can be seen in where user has moved the pointer of the pointing device over the dynamic element resulting in the entire text of the dynamic element becoming highlighted as a single selection target.

In an embodiment when a dynamic element is selected for formatting from within the text component i.e. on the canvas content changes are not allowed and only formatting changes may be made. These may include one or more of font size font typeface font style bold italic etc. line spacing and so on. In a related embodiment formatting changes made to a dynamic element apply to the entire element and all its variants no matter which of the variants is displayed. For example changing the font style of the company name to Bold would make the company name variants appear in Bold when they are selected for display.

In some embodiments it may be desirable to suppress the appearance of certain element variants together in a single concept representation. For example combinations of elements variants may not be desirable to be shown to decision makers or to potential consumers for different reasons. For example in a frozen dinner concept a product form that consists of a metallic pan should not be shown with Microwavable as a feature due to physical incompatibility. Similarly an All natural benefit statement may not desirably appear with Sweetened with aspartame as an ingredient e.g. for legal reasons. As a further example certain combinations of elements such as expensive packaging and expensive ingredients may result in the production cost exceeding a certain limit. Accordingly it may be desirable to limit such combinations and or identify such combinations. In and example embodiment concept development process may provide the ability to establish constraints that may prevent and or identify combinations of elements that may be undesired.

Referring also to according to one aspect concept development process may provide a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept. The visual representation may include one or more of a textual component and a graphical component. Concept development process may also receive a designation of a first element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical components as a first dynamic element. Concept development process may receive a designation of a second element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a second dynamic element. Concept development process may associate the first dynamic element with a first variant list including one or more first element variants. Concept development process may also associate the second dynamic element with a second variant list including one or more second element variants. Concept development process may associate a constraint between at least one of the one or more first element variants and at least one of the one or more second element variants. In some embodiments the first dynamic element and the second dynamic element may include the same element. In such an embodiment the constraint may be associated between two or more element variants associated with the same dynamic element e.g. as may be the case of a combination dynamic element in which a single dynamic element may be replaced by a plurality of element variants. Concept development process may receive a selection of a first element variant from the first variant list. Concept development process may also receive a selection of a second element variant from the second variant list. A first instantiation of the visual representation may be generated including the first element variant as the first dynamic element and the second element variant as the second dynamic element based upon the constraint.

For example and referring also to concept development process may provide a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept. The framework for building the visual representation of the product concept may include visual representation user interface for developing a visual representation of a product concept. The visual representation of the product concept may include one or more of a textual component e.g. textual components and a graphical component e.g. graphical components . For example in the illustrated embodiment textual component may include a product name and textual component may include product attributes. Similarly in the illustrated embodiment graphical component may include a graphical product attribute e.g. a graphical representation of an ingredient and graphical component may include a depiction of the product. Various additional alternative textual and or graphical components may also be included depending upon product and product concept.

Concept development process may receive a designation of a first element within at least one of the textual components and the graphical components as a first dynamic element. For example in a manner generally analogous to that described with reference to a user e.g. user may select a textual element e.g. textual element using an onscreen pointer not shown controlled by an input device such as a mouse not shown . User may further select variant button from a toolbar associated with visual representation user interface . In response to user selecting variant button concept development process may receive a designation of textual component as a dynamic element. In various additional alternative embodiments the concept development process may receive the designation of the textual element as a dynamic element in response to e.g. a pop up interface or other suitable interface. Further in some embodiments the concept development process may receive the designation of the textual element as a dynamic element in response to identifying an escape sequence.

Similarly concept development process may receive a designation of a second element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a second dynamic element. For example in a similar manner as described above user may select graphical element using onscreen pointer not shown . User may further select variant button from the toolbar associated with visual representation user interface . In response to user selecting variant button concept development process may receive a designation of graphical element as a dynamic element. In various additional alternative embodiments the concept development process may receive the designation of the graphical element as a dynamic element in response to e.g. a pop up interface or other suitable interface. Further in some embodiments the concept development process may receive the designation of the graphical element as a dynamic element in response to identifying an escape sequence.

Concept development process may associate the first dynamic element with a first variant list including one or more first element variants. Further and in a generally similar manner concept development process may also associate the second dynamic element with a second variant list including one or more second element variants. For example and with continued reference to upon receiving a designation of graphical element as the second dynamic element concept development process may render variant panel . As shown variant panel may include an identifier associated with the second dynamic element e.g. Flavor in the illustrated example . Further panel may include a second variant list including one or more second element variants e.g. second element variants . In the illustrated embodiment the second variant list may be populated e.g. second element variants may be added and or removed from the second variant list by user selecting e.g. using the onscreen pointer add image variant button in the case of a graphical dynamic element . Upon selecting add image variant button concept development process may enable user to add a second element variant. For example concept development process may enable user to input an element variant e.g. an image in the instance of a graphical dynamic element for example by selecting an image file and or creating an image using an image editing application not shown add element variant properties e.g. an element variant identifier and the like. Similarly concept development process may enable user to remove an element variant from the variant list e.g. by selecting e.g. using the onscreen pointer a remove button e.g. x icon associated with one or more of the element variants e.g. element variant Mango Maniac in the illustrated embodiment . In response to user selecting remove button concept development process may remove the selected element variant from the variant list.

In an additional alternative embodiment a user may provide a link address or other reference to a file or location including one or more element variants and or a variant list. Concept development process may add the one or more element variants to the variant list and or may import and or otherwise associate the dynamic element with the one or more element variants and or the variant list. An example of a file including one or more textual element variants may include a spreadsheet file a CSV file or other similar file. Similarly an example of a reference that may be used for importing one or more graphical element variants may include e.g. one or more image url s and associated variant names. In some embodiments one or more image url s and or image names may be included within a spreadsheet CSV file or the like. Concept development process may associate the first dynamic element with a first variant list including one or more first element variants in a similar manner as described with respect to the second dynamic element.

Concept development process may associate a constraint between at least one of the one or more first element variants and at least one of the one or more second element variants. For example in an example embodiment from within visual representation user interface user may select constraints button from the toolbar. In response to user selecting constraints button and referring also to concept development process may render user interface . User interface may include for example a pop up window a new display or other suitable interface. In the illustrated example user interface may display a selection option such as pull down menu e.g. which may allow user to select a first dynamic element. In the illustrated embodiment user may have selected the first dynamic element. In an additional alternative embodiment concept development process may present by default and or based on one or more configuration rules and or preferences one of the dynamic. For example based on one or more rules concept development process may present the last element selected from within visual representation as the first dynamic element.

As shown user interface may further include identifier of the displayed dynamic element e.g. claims in the illustrated embodiment . Further user interface may include a variant list e.g. first variant list that may include the one or more first element variants. User may select a one of the first element variants e.g. by clicking on one of the first element variants for example first element variant 80 pure fruit juice has been selected in the illustrated example . Further user interface may include an identifier of one or more additional dynamic elements e.g. identifier of dynamic elements . User may select e.g. via an onscreen pointer an identifier associated with one or the additional dynamic elements. For example user may select identifier e.g. flavor in the illustrated embodiment . Upon selecting identifier concept development process may provide second variant list e.g. which may include the one or more second element variants. Additionally alternatively one or more additional dynamic variant lists may be provided by default e.g. based on configuration rule preference setting based on user selection and or activities within visual representation or the like.

In an embodiment the constraint may include a prohibitory constraint. For example the prohibitory constraint may designate one or more second element variants as being incompatible and or undesirable in combination with selected first element variant. Additionally alternatively the constraint may include a permissive constraint. For example the permissive constraint may designate one or more second element variants as desirable and or required in combination with the selected first element variant. In an embodiment user interface may include indicators indicating the type or form of constraint in use. For example in the illustrated embodiment indicators may indicate a logical if showing X then Y is allowed prohibited constraint form. Another logical constraint form may include if showing X then must show Y .

The constraints either prohibitory or permissive may be based on one of a business rule a logical rule or an algebraic rule. For example a prohibitory business rule may prevent a combination that may be monetarily undesirable e.g. the combination of variants may result in a higher cost than desired legally undesirable e.g. a combination such as all natural and sweetened with aspartame or otherwise be undesirable for business reasons. An example of a logical rule may include for example an indication of strawberry flavoring in combination with a picture of a pineapple. An example of an algebraic rule may include for example an indication of a 29.99 price in combination with a indicator of three easy payments of 19.99. The foregoing examples of business logical and algebraic rules are intended only for the purpose of illustration and not of limitation. Various additional and or alternative bases for constraints will be readily appreciated.

In an embodiment concept development process may receive an indicator of constraints associated between two or more element variants. For example via user interface user may set a constraint e.g. a prohibitory constrain in the illustrated embodiment between selected first element variant and one or more second element variants from within the second variant list. As shown each second element variant may include an indicator e.g. indicator indicating whether a combination is prohibited or allowed. User may select via an onscreen pointer one or more toggle button to toggle a constraint for a given second element variant between prohibited and allowed. For example in the illustrated embodiment a prohibitory constraint may be associated between the first element variant 80 pure fruit juice and each of the second element variants Magnificent Mint Candid Carrot and Groovy Ginger e.g. based on a user selection of a constraint toggle button associated with each of the second element variants. Similarly a non prohibitory constraint and or no constraint may be associated between the first element variant 80 pure fruit juice and each of the second element variants Killer Kiwi Mango Maniac and Crazy Coconut e.g. based on a user selection of a toggle button associated with each of the second element variants.

In some embodiments in the case of a prohibitory constrain each of the second element variants may be prohibited or allowed by default e.g. based on configuration rule preference etc. . Correspondingly in some embodiments in the case of a permissive constraint each of the second element variants may be required or not required by default. Various additional alternative implementations may be equally utilized. Accordingly a default constraint may be established between one or more first element variants and one or more second element variants. Concept development process may receive an indicator of constraints based on user selection and or default constraints associated between two or more variant elements.

Concept development process may receive a selection of a first element variant from the first variant list. Additionally concept development process may also receive a selection of a second element variant from the second variant list. For example in a similar manner as discussed with reference to a first element variant may be selected from the first variant list and a second element variant may be selected from the second variant list. Selection of the first element variant and or the second element variant may be based on a user selection of an element variant from within the first variant list and or the second variant list. In response to a user selection of a first element variant and or a second element variant concept development process may receive the selection of the first element variant and or the second element variant. In addition as an alternative to receiving a selection of a first element variant and or a second element variant in response to a user selection concept development process may receive a selection of a first element variant based on a configuration rule preference setting or the like. For example concept development process may receive a selection of the first element variant and or the second element variant based on random selection of a first element variant from within first variant list based on an element variant attribute e.g. textually and or graphically largest element variant order in which the element variants were added to the variant list etc. and or otherwise selected.

In response to receiving a selection of a first element variant and a second element variant concept development process may generate a first instantiation of the visual representation including the first element variant as the first dynamic element and the second element variant as the second dynamic element based upon the constraint e.g. the first instantiation of the visual representation may take into account any constraints between the first dynamic element and the second dynamic element. For example and referring also to 80 natural fruit juice may have been selected as the first element variant and a mint leaf graphical may have been selected as the second element variant. Accordingly user interface may include first instantiation of the visual representation of the product concept including in part 80 natural fruit juice as first dynamic element and a graphical of mint leaves as second dynamic element .

As discussed above with reference to a prohibitory constraint may be associated between the first element variant 80 natural fruit juice and the second element variant Magnificent Mint e.g. including a displayed second element variant including a mint leaf graphical . Accordingly and referring also to in an embodiment generating first instantiation of the visual representation based on the constraint may include generation an error based on the constraint. In an embodiment generating the error may include providing a visual warning. For example as shown in first instantiation of the visual representation may include prohibition symbol .

In an embodiment the error may include an identification of the constraint violation. For example while not shown the first instantiation of the visual representation of the product concept may include an indicator of the first dynamic element and the second dynamic element e.g. via a graphical indicator such as highlighting display of an error symbol e.g. a red X etc. in place of the first dynamic element and the second dynamic element and or otherwise identifying the constraint violation. Additionally alternatively the warning may include an identification of the constraint. For example the first instantiation of the visual representation may include a pop up including the first element variant and the second element variant and the violated constraint. In some embodiments the first instantiation of the visual representation may include a natural language explanation of the violation e.g. combination of 80 pure fruit juice and Magnificent Mint is not permitted . In still further embodiments the warning may include a suggestion of an alternate second element variant e.g. based on constraints associated between the first element variant and one or more second element variants. In some embodiments in the event of a constraint violation generating the first instantiation of the visual representation based on the constraint may include a failure to generate a visual representation of the product concept.

In some embodiments constraints may be associated between element variants within one of the first variant list and the second variant list. That is constraints may be associated between element variants within the same variant list rather than between element variants from different variant lists. For example in some embodiments each of the first dynamic element and the second dynamic element may be associated with the same variant list. In such an embodiment an instantiation of the visual representation may include one or more dynamic elements that may provide one or more element variants from the same variant list. Constraints may be associated between element variants of the same variant list. For example a constraint may require that if a dynamic element include a first element variant then another dynamic element must include one or more than one specific second element variant from the variant list. In a related manner a constraint may require that if a dynamic element includes a first element variant from the variant list another dynamic element cannot include one or more than one specific second element variant from the variant list.

In some embodiments it may be desirable to provide a product under development one or more elements that may include a set of constituents or sub elements. For example in the case of a food product an element of the product under design may include a list of available flavors in which each of the available flavors may be a sub element of the element flavors. By way of further example a product under development may include a list of features or benefits the proposed product claims to deliver. In such an embodiment it may be desirable to generate and assess product representations including different combinations of such features or benefits. Consistent with the foregoing in some embodiments it may be desirable to provide one or more visual representations of a product concept including an element having different combinations of sub elements. According to one embodiment concept development process may facilitate providing different visual representations of a product concept including an element having different combinations of sub elements.

In one embodiment and with reference to concept development process may provide a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept. The visual representation may include one or more of a textual component and a graphical component. Concept development process may receive a designation of an element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical component as a dynamic element. The dynamic element may be associated with a variant list including a plurality of element variants. Concept development process may further receive a selection of a subset of the plurality of element variants from the variant list. Concept development process may also generate a first instantiation of the visual representation including the subset of the plurality of element variants as the dynamic element.

For example and referring to concept development process may provide a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept. The framework for building the visual representation of the product concept may include visual representation user interface for developing visual representation of the product concept. Visual representation may include one or more of a textual component e.g. textual components and a graphical component e.g. graphical component . In the illustrated example textual component may include in part a bulleted list of available varieties namely Three Lunch Martini Three s Company and Sweet and Sour .

Concept development process may receive a designation of an element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical components as a dynamic element. For example an in a manner similar to that described above a user e.g. user may select a textual element e.g. textual element including the items Three s Company and Sweet and Sour from textual component using onscreen pointer e.g. which may be controlled by an input device . User may further select combo button e.g. using onscreen pointer from a toolbar associated with visual representation user interface . In response to user selecting combo button concept development process may receive a designation of textual element within textual component as being a dynamic element that may allow substitution of the single dynamic element by a plurality of element variants. Consistent with the illustrated example in which textual element may include two bulleted items i.e. Three s Company and Sweet and Sour concept development process may receive a designation of the two bulleted items as being a single dynamic element as being two dynamic elements and or as being a single dynamic element including two or more discrete sub elements. Further in such an embodiment concept development process may not receive a designation of the first item of the bulleted list i.e. Three Lunch Martini as being a dynamic element. In various additional alternative embodiments the concept development process may receive the designation of the textual element as a dynamic element in response to e.g. a pop up interface or other suitable interface. Further in some embodiments the concept development process may receive the designation of the textual element as a dynamic element in response to identifying an escape sequence.

Concept development process may associate the dynamic element with a variant list including a plurality of element variants. With reference also to an in a manner similar to that described above in response to receiving the designation of the textual element as a dynamic element e.g. upon user selecting combo button indicating a combination dynamic element concept development process may provide properties panel . A variant list including one or more element variants e.g. element variants which may include the bulleted items included within the dynamic element associated with the dynamic element may be included within properties panel . In addition to including element variants included within the variant list associated with the dynamic element properties panel may provide functionality for adding additional element variants to the variant list. For example properties panel may include input field into which user may type additional element variants. Further user may add the additional element variants to the variant list e.g. by selecting add button .

Referring also to upon user adding additional element variants via properties panel concept development process may provide the variant list e.g. variant list generally populated with the added element variants and or the textual elements designated as the dynamic element. In an embodiment user may provide a name for the combination dynamic element e.g. by inputting a desired name into Element Name filed . User may also further edit the one or more element variants included within variant list e.g. by removing one or more element variants by selecting a delete button e.g. delete button associated with each element variant.

Concept development process may receive a selection of a subset of the plurality of element variants from the variant list. For example and with continued reference to user may select a subset of the element variants included within variant list to be displayed. The subset may include one element variant included within variant list all of the element variants included within variant list or any portion of the element variants included within variant list . Additionally alternatively the subset may include none of the element variants included within variant list . In such an embodiment the dynamic element may be an empty field e.g. in an instantiation of the visual representation the dynamic element may not include any text or graphic . User may select one or more element variants from variant list e.g. by clicking on the one or more variants using onscreen pointer e.g. in a similar manner as described above and or otherwise selecting the one or more variants. Accordingly selection of the one or more element variants included within the subset of element variants may be based on a user selection of element variants from within the variant list . In response to a user selection of one or more element variants concept development process may receive the selection of the subset of element variants. In addition as an alternative to receiving a selection one or more element variants in response to a user selection concept development process may receive a selection of a subset element variants based on a configuration rule preference setting or the like. For example concept development process may receive a selection the subset of element variants based on random selection of element variants from within variant list based on an element variant attribute e.g. textually and or graphically largest element variant order in which the element variants were added to the variant list etc. and or otherwise selected.

In an embodiment and consistent with the foregoing description in which the element variants included within the subset may be based upon a configuration rule and or preference e.g. may be randomly selected from variant list and or randomly selected from a selected group of element variants the number of element variants included within the subset may be a fixed number and or may be a variable number e.g. which variable number may be selected based on one or more configuration rule and or preference such as a preference to randomly select the number of element variants to be included in the subset . In an embodiment concept development process may receive an indication of a minimum and or a maximum number of element variants to include within the subset of element variants. For example user may select a minimum number of element variants to be included in the subset e.g. by selecting a minimum number from dropdown may select a maximum number of element variants to be included in the subset e.g. by selecting a maximum number from dropdown or may select both a minimum number of element variants to be included in the subset and a maximum number of variant elements to be included in the subset.

In addition to receiving the selection of element variants that may be included in the subset of element variants concept development process may receive layout information associated with the subset of element variants. For example as shown in user may define a relative order associated with each of the element variants included within the subset of element variants. For example user may select a relative order for each of the element variants included within the subset of element variants e.g. by selecting an order position from a dropdown menu associated with each selected element variant e.g. dropdown menu associated with the element variant New Stuff . Concept development process may receive the selection of the relative order associated with one or more of the element variants to be included within the subset of element variants. In an embodiment selection of a relative order associated with one or more of the elements included within the subset of element variants may also select the element variant for inclusion within the subset of element variants. In some embodiments e.g. in which a random number of element variants between a minimum and a maximum number may be included within the subset of element variants the order of the element variants within the subset may be based upon the relative order associated with each of the random element variants. In an embodiment in which one or more of the element variants may not include an associated order such element variants may be ordered according to a configuration rule or preference e.g. may be placed in any order may be placed first and or may be placed last in the subset of element variants .

In an embodiment the layout information may include presentation information associated with the plurality of element variants. For example concept development process may format the one or more element variants included within the subset according to a format associated with selected element e.g. a bulleted list in the illustrated example . Various additional alternative mechanisms for providing presentation information may be equally utilized.

In an embodiment the layout information may include position information associated with the plurality of element variants. For example the dynamic element and or a portion of the dynamic element e.g. one or more of the subset of element variants may by moved to a location within visual representation that may be different from the location of element within visual representation . For example user may select Move Element button . Upon selecting Move Element button concept development process may provide an interface that may allow user to designate a location within visual representation for one or more element variants of the subset of element variants. Accordingly at least a portion of the subset of element variants may occupy disparate locations within the visual representation of the product concept.

Concept development process may also generate a first instantiation of the visual representation including the subset of the plurality of element variants as the dynamic element. For example and with additional reference to four element variants namely Three s Company Candyland Double Dutch and New Stuffrm may have been received as element variants included within the subset of element variants. Additionally each of the four element variants may have an associated relative order. Further the number of element variants to be included within the subset of element variants may be between 2 and 4 e.g. based on the selection of values via dropdowns . For example concept development process may select a random number between the specified minimum and maximum e.g. between 2 and 4 in the foregoing example . Further concept development process may select a subset of element variants according to the selected random number. As shown in concept development process may generate first instantiation of the visual representation of the product concept including the subset of element variants Three s Company Candyland Double Dutch and New Stuff as dynamic element . Additionally the subset of element variants may be arranged according to the relative order associated with each element variant

Referring also to concept development process may generate another instantiation of the visual representation of the product concept including a different subset of element variants as dynamic element . As shown the subset of element variants included as the dynamic element in instantiation of the visual representation of the product concept may include less than all of the element variants selected for inclusion within the subset of element variants. In the embodiment depicted in the number of element variants included within the subset of element variants may be e.g. a random number or other number based on one or more configuration rules preferences or the like of element variant between the selected minimum and maximum number of element variants to be included in the subset of element variants.

While the foregoing aspect has been generally described in the context of a textual element such description is intended only for the purpose of illustration and not of limitation. The features and aspects may be equally applicable to graphical elements as when a set of flavors are represented by an array of graphical icons as opposed to or in addition to a textual list of flavors.

According to an embodiment a particular element may be used in more than one place in a visual representation of a product design. For example in the case of a product that includes an associated brand name the brand name may be used several times throughout the descriptions of features and benefits of the product. As another example an ingredient may be used in several places in the visual representation such as in a list of product features and in a description of resulting benefits. According to one aspect the concept development process may allow multiple instances of an element to be easily replaced with different variants of the element.

According to an example embodiment and referring also to concept development process may provide a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept. The visual representation may include one or more of a textual component and a graphical component. Concept development process may receive a designation of a first element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical components as a dynamic element. Concept development process may also associate the dynamic element with a variant list including one or more element variants. A second element may be identified corresponding to the first element. Concept development process may link the second element with the first element. A selection may be received of a first element variant from the variant list. Concept development process may also generate a first instantiation of the visual representation including the first element variant as the dynamic element and including the first element variant as the second element.

For example and referring also to concept development process may provide a framework for building a visual representation of a product concept. The framework for building the visual representation of the product concept may include visual representation user interface for developing visual representation of the product concept. Visual representation may include one or more of a textual component e.g. textual components and and a graphical component e.g. graphical component .

Concept development process may receive a designation of a first element within at least one of the textual component and the graphical components as a dynamic element. According to one embodiment receiving the designation of the first element as a dynamic element may include receiving a user selection of the first element. For example and in a manner similar to that described above a user e.g. user may select a first element e.g. textual element from within textual component e.g. by highlighting element using an onscreen pointer not shown controlled by a pointing device such as a mouse not shown . User may further select e.g. via the onscreen pointer variant button from within a toolbar associated with visual representation user interface . In response to user selecting element and selecting variant button concept development process may receive a designation of element i.e. NationsTrust within textual component as being a dynamic element. In various additional alternative embodiments the concept development process may receive the designation of the textual element as a dynamic element in response to e.g. a pop up interface or other suitable interface. Further in some embodiments the concept development process may receive the designation of the textual element as a dynamic element in response to identifying an escape sequence. For example and in a similar manner as discussed above user may replace element with an escape sequence identifying element as a dynamic element. Further rather than replacing element with an escape sequence e.g. after previously creating the text NationsTrust user may provide the escape sequence during initial creation of textual component .

Concept development process may also associate the dynamic element with a variant list including one or more element variants. For example and in a similar manner as previously described in response to receiving the designation of element as a dynamic element e.g. in response to user selecting element and selecting variant button concept development process may provide properties panel . Properties panel may include a variant list e.g. variant list generally associated with the dynamic element. Variant list may include at least first element as an element variant. Additionally properties panel may include identifier associated with the dynamic element.

Associating the dynamic element with variant list may include receiving a user input including the one or more element variants. For example in addition to including element user may add additional element variants to variant list . For example properties panel may include variant input field via which user may input e.g. as through typing copy and paste functionality or the like one or more additional element variants. Upon entering an element variant into variant input field user may select add button . In response to user inputting an element variant into input field and selecting add button concept development process may add the input variant to variant list . In addition as an alternative to inputting individual element variants in some embodiments a link to a spreadsheet which may include textual component links to graphical components or the like CSV file which may include textual component links to graphical components or the like image url s etc. may be provided e.g. input into input field . In response to inputting a link or other reference concept development process may import element variants associated with a link or referenced file and may add such element variants to the variant list.

A second element may be identified corresponding to the first element. In an example embodiment identifying the second element corresponding to the first element may include searching at least one of the textual component and the graphical component based on the first element. For example user select e.g. using the onscreen pointer option i.e. Pipe this element throughout the concept from within properties panel . In response to selecting option concept development process may search one or more textual components e.g. textual components and or one or more graphical components e.g. graphical component and or a textual element such as a label associated with the graphical component for additional elements corresponding to first element . Additionally elements corresponding to first element may include for example textual element including the same character sequence as first element . For example based on searching at least one of the textual component and the graphical component based on first element concept development process may identify a second element e.g. one or more of elements within textual components . In additional alternative embodiments elements corresponding to the first element may include one or more corresponding attributes such as corresponding character sequence corresponding formatting attributes corresponding element type etc. Elements corresponding to the first element may be determined based on one or more configuration rules and or preferences.

Concept development process may link the second element with the first element. In an example embodiment linking the second element with the first element may include replacing the second element with an escape sequence associated with the dynamic element. For example and referring also to concept development process may replace at least a portion of the corresponding second elements e.g. elements with an escape sequence e.g. escape sequence BrandName . While the escape sequence BrandName has been shown in the illustrated embodiment such illustration and description is intended only for the purpose of illustration and not of limitation as various additional alternative escape sequences may be used to link the second element with the first element.

In an additional alternative embodiment linking the second element with the first element may include receiving a linking designation. For example while not shown user may manually select one or more second elements and may provide a designation linking the one or more second elements with the first element. Providing a designation linking the one or more second elements with the first element may include for example highlighting and right clicking e.g. via an onscreen pointer controlled by a pointing device on each of the second elements. Right clicking on a selected second element may result in the concept development process rending a pop up window or dialog box. The pop up window or dialog box may include an option to link the selected element with a dynamic element i.e. the first element that has been designated a dynamic element . In some such embodiments the concept development process may search the visual representation for second elements corresponding to the first element and may allow a user to manually e.g. via right clicking as discussed above provide a linking designation. The concept development process may receive the linking designation manually provided by the user. Various additional alternative implementations may be equally utilized.

A selection may be received of a first element variant from the variant list. For example and with reference also to user may select e.g. using the onscreen pointer an element variant e.g. element variant Reliance from variant list within properties panel . In response to user selecting element variant and option i.e. Pipe this element throughout the concept concept development process may generate a first instantiation i.e. first instantiation of the visual representation of the product concept including the first element variant as the dynamic element and including the first element variant as the second element. For example as shown concept development process may replace the first element i.e. the dynamic element and each of the linked second elements i.e. second elements with the selected element variant i.e. Reliance .

Additionally in some embodiments concept variant may receive a selection of a second element variant from the variant list. For example user may select a different element variant from within variant list e.g. the variant TrustCo . As described above in response to user selecting the second element variant TrustCo and the option Pipe this element throughout the concept concept development process may generate a second instantiation not shown of the visual representation of the product concept. The second instantiation of the visual representation of the product concept may be generally analogous to the first instantiation but with the dynamic element and the one or more second elements replaced with the selected second element variant TrustCo. 

In some embodiments the concept development process may enable outlying combinations of element variants in particular the longest combination of variants to be verified. For example the concept development process may enable verification that even when the densest element variants are combined the visual representation of the product concept may remain acceptable for example in terms of layout e.g. making sure that different textual elements do not interfere with one another aesthetics e.g. avoiding an overwhelming amount of text with too little white space and legibility and comprehension given the intended audience. Accordingly in an embodiment the concept development process may partially and or fully automate searching through the different element variants e.g. which may be associated with one or more dynamic elements to identify the longer ones searching through one or more sets of constraints to identify the legal combinations and generating instantiations of the visual representation of the product concept including such longest and or shortest permissible e.g. based on any constraints associated with the element variants combinations of element variants. In some embodiments the concept development process may also enable partially and or fully automated adjustments of the layout of the visual representation to allow such combinations to fit within the visual representation in an acceptable manner and or edit one or more textual elements to shorten the combination of element variants.

According to such an embodiment the concept development process may enable the user to design a visual representation of a product concept in order to for example avoid the content of one element interfering with the content of another to maintain the legibility of the various elements in particular the textual ones maintaining a certain balance between the various elements so as to avoid biasing decision making and or to achieve a desired aesthetic effect etc. Such functionality of the concept development process may take into account variable combination elements and or any constraints or rules associated between two or more element variants. The concept development process may therefore save the user the wasted effort of optimizing the layout and presentation for a combination of element variants that would never be instantiated e.g. for aesthetic reasons legibility reasons and or reasons based on constraints associated between element variants .

In some embodiments the concept development process may at least partially and or fully automatically perform at least some of the layout and formatting optimizations discussed above for example taking into account one or more predefined rules and or constraints. Examples of rules that may be taken into account by the concept development process may include maintaining a minimum font size for legibility of textual elements not exceeding a certain difference in font size between textual elements e.g. to thereby minimize biasing effects in decision making or consumer preference measurement maintaining the aspect ratio of graphical elements limiting magnification of graphical elements to avoid pixilation maintaining a minimum separation or white space between elements etc.

In an embodiment the concept development process may facilitate tracking the number of concept alternatives enabled by various element variants for example as element variants are added or removed and or as constraints or other parameters are added removed or edited. For example the concept development process may track e.g. monitor log and or provide an indication of one or more of the following measures the raw space size e.g. the total size of the space of possible concept alternatives not taking into accounts any constraints or rules the exact constrained space size an approximation to the constrained space size e.g. which may be a desirable measure e.g. in an embodiment in which computing the exact constrained space size may be undesirably time consuming to provide a timely answer to the user .

Consistent with the foregoing and referring also to according to an example embodiment concept development process may identify a dynamic element within framework for building a visual representation of a product concept. The visual representation may include one or more of a textual component and a graphical component. Concept development process may also associate the dynamic element with a variant list including one or more variant elements. Concept development process may identify one of a longest variant element and a shortest variant element from within the variant list. Concept development process may also generate a first instantiation of a visual representation of a product concept including the one of the longest variant element and the shortest variant element as the dynamic element.

For example and referring also to concept development process may identify a dynamic element e.g. first dynamic element Cool confident and indulgent. Cocktails make you the perfect host within framework for building a visual representation of a product concept e.g. visual representation provided within visual representation user interface . Visual representation may include one or more of a textual component e.g. textual components and a graphical component e.g. graphical component . In some embodiments identifying the dynamic element may include identifying a plurality of dynamic elements e.g. first dynamic element and second dynamic element . The one or more dynamic elements e.g. first dynamic element and second dynamic element may have been defined in a similar manner as discussed in one or more previous examples above.

Concept development process may associate the dynamic element with a variant list including one or more variant elements. For example concept development process may associate first dynamic element with first variant list generally shown within properties panel . First variant list may include one or more element variants e.g. element variants associated with first dynamic element . In an embodiment in which visual representation may include a plurality of dynamic elements concept development process may associate each of the plurality of dynamic elements with a respective variant list. For example and with further reference to second dynamic element may be associated with second variant list generally shown in properties panel . Second variant list may include one or more element variants e.g. element variants associated with second element variant . First and second dynamic elements may be created and may be associated with respective first and second variant lists in a similar manner as described above. Further as also generally described above element variants may be added and or removed from respective first and second variant lists and or may be edited. Further first and second dynamic elements may have been previously associated with respective first and second variant lists .

Concept development process may identify one of a longest variant element and a shortest variant element from within the variant list. In an embodiment including a plurality of dynamic elements e.g. first dynamic element and second dynamic element identifying one of the longest variant element and the shortest variant element may include identifying one of the longest variant element associated with each of the plurality of dynamic elements and the shortest variant element included within a respective variant list associated with each of the plurality of dynamic elements. For example first variant list may include a plurality of textual element variants e.g. element variants having different length of text. For example as shown in of the element variants included within first variant list element variant may have the shortest text length and element variant may have the longest text length. Accordingly concept development process may identify element variant as the longest element variant associated with first dynamic element and or may identify element variant as the shortest element variant associated with first dynamic element .

Further as shown in the various element variants included within second variant list may each have a generally comparable text length e.g. with element variant having a marginally shortest text length and element variant having a marginally longest text length . However in the illustrated embodiment second dynamic element may be associated with a combination element e.g. as indicated in the header of properties panel . As such in some embodiments more than one element variant may replace second dynamic element in a given instantiation of a visual representation of a product concept. For example based on dropdowns second dynamic element may be replaced by a combination of between two and four element variants from within second variant list in a given instantiation of a visual representation of a product concept. Accordingly concept development process may identify a combination of two element variants e.g. having a nominally similar length from second variant list as being the shortest combination associated with second dynamic element and or may identify a combination of four element variants e.g. having a nominally similar length from second variant list as being the longest combination associated with second dynamic element . In some embodiments in addition to identifying the longest and or shortest combination based on the number of element variants included within the combination the concept development process may also identify which combination of specific element variants may provide the longest and or shortest e.g. in terms of absolute textual length combination associated with a dynamic combination variable.

In an embodiment identifying one of the longest element variant and the shortest element variant included within a respective variant list associated with each of plurality of dynamic elements may be based on a constraint associated between two or more dynamic elements. For example as discussed above in some embodiments one or more constraints may be associated between two or more dynamic elements and or two or more element variants. Concept development process may identify the longest and or shortest element variant associated with each respective variant list based on any such constraints. For example if based on a constraint associated between two element variants the two element variants are prohibited from being included in the same instantiation of a visual representation of a product concept concept development process may not identify a longest and or shortest element variant associated with each respective variant list if the longest and or shortest element variant associated with each list may not be included in the same instantiation of a visual representation of a product concept based on a constraint associated between the element variants. Rather in an embodiment concept development process may only identify a longest and or shortest element variant associated with each respective variant list that may permissibly be included within the same instantiation of a visual representation of a product concept.

Concept development process may generate a first instantiation of a visual representation of a product concept including the one of the longest variant element and the shortest variant element as the dynamic element. For example and referring also to concept development process may generate a first instantiation of a visual representation of a product concept including the longest element variant associated with first dynamic element i.e. longest element variant from first variant list and the longest element variant associated with second dynamic element i.e. a combination of four element variants from second variant list . While depicts a first instantiation of a visual representation of a product concept including the longest element variants the concept development process may additionally alternatively generate a first instantiation of a visual representation of a product concept including the shortest element variants in a generally related manner.

In an embodiment generating the first instantiation of the visual representation may include adjusting a formatting of the visual representation based on the one of the longest element variant and the shortest element variant. For example and referring also to concept development process may generation an instantiation of a visual representation of the product concept including adjusting the formatting of instantiation of the visual representation e.g. by providing second dynamic element in two columns e.g. to thereby provide greater separation between textual component e.g. which may include second dynamic element and graphical component . According to various additional and or alternative embodiments adjusting the formatting of the visual representation may include altering a size property associated with one or more components of the visual representation. A size property associated with one or more components of the visual representation may include for example a size of an image a size of a text block e.g. a textual component a font size associated with one or more textual components or the like. In various embodiments altering a size property associated with one or more components of the visual representation may include altering the size property based on one or more formatting rules. For example one or more configuration rules and or preferences may specify a minimum and or a maximum font size that may be utilized in connection with one or more textual components a maximum difference in font size between two or more different textual components a maximum enlargement of a graphical element e.g. relative to a native resolution of the graphical element which may thereby prevent and or reduce an undesired degree of pixilation of the graphical element a maximum change in white space e.g. separation between components of the visual representation or the like.

According to another aspect the present disclosure may provide systems and methods for scoring a visual representation of a product concept based on a number of dimensions and assessing its appropriateness for use in a market research study or other measurement or decision making activity for example based on an intended audience locale and available computer hardware and software. Examples of the dimensions may include but are not limited to one or more of the following measures and combinations thereof. One dimension may include reading level which may be measured for example using the average word length of the textual elements or using the Flesch Kincaid metric that may take into account the average count of syllables per word and words per sentence. Another metric that may be utilized is the SMOG Simple Measure of Gobbledygook metric which may generally count polysyllables and number of sentences. Other readability metrics are also contemplated by the present disclosure including metrics that may be specific to certain languages and or dialects. Another dimension that may be utilized is legibility of the textual elements which may be measured for example using metrics that may include one or more of font style and font size font color background color and or the contrast between font color and background color e.g. also taking into account the viewing conditions e.g. indoors or outdoors . Another dimension that may be utilized may include the overall cognitive load involved in reading comprehending and retaining the information communicated by a visual representation of a product concept which may be required to answer questions about that concept in a survey or concept test for example. Another metric may relate to the cognitive load involved in comparing two or more variants of a concept e.g. as may be required from respondents participating in a choice based market research study such as a concept optimization study or a conjoint measurement study. The objective in such an embodiment may be to avoid overtaxing the respondents participating in such studies e.g. in order to keep response error rates and cheating rates to a minimum. The metrics used to assess cognitive load may include the total number of elements in the visual representation and or the type and layout of the elements within the visual representation. For textual elements the metrics may include an average amount of text word count the readability and legibility levels as described above among others. For graphical elements the metrics may account for the type of graphical involved mood photography simple line art complex line art photorealistic representations of product labels including detailed product information such as nutrition information panels in food products . The metrics may also include a measure of the difference between element variants and the salience of these differences. A respondent in a choice exercise involving different versions of the concept may incur a greater cognitive load identifying differences between highly similar elements first and formulating a preference between them secondly.

According to another aspect the present disclosure may provide systems and methods that may include generating and providing a user user for example with metrics and diagnostic information that may relate to the impact of constraints and rules on the space of possible concept alternatives within a visual representation of a product concept. Such an assessment may be utilized for example in cases where the visual representation of the concept and or variants of the visual representation may be used in an optimization and or conjoint measurement study. An example of a concept optimization process may include interactive search and optimization technology developed by Affinnova Inc. of Waltham Mass. Afeyan et al. 2006 and Malek et al. 2007 . According to such a process various aspects of the constraints network number of constraints type of constraints their interconnectedness may impact the ease of transitioning from one legal concept alternative to another one and therefore may impact the efficiency of the search and optimization process. In a case of a designed experiment such as a conjoint measurement study the constraints may impact the quality of the Design of Experiments used during data collection.

In an embodiment assessing and scoring the impact of constraints on the space of possible concept variations may rely on various computational means which may include graph theoretical computation methods and Monte Carlo simulation based techniques. In the former graphs may be generated to represent the constraints relationships between the various concept elements and or their variants. The graphs may be weighted to reflect different types of constraints rules. Properties of the graphs may then be used as measures of the potential impact of the constraints structure including the degree or valency of the vertices elements or variants and or different properties of the adjacency and or distance matrices relating the different elements. In the case of Monte Carlo based techniques random variations of the concept may be generated using randomly selected element variants and may then tested for any constraints violations. Different metrics derived from this process may be used as measures of the density and complexity of the constraints structure which may include the proportion of failures or illegal concept instantiations created to total concept instantiations created. Additionally alternatively a set number of concept alternatives may be generated in a quasi random fashion e.g. with element variants being selected following one or more random or deterministic sequences. As a variant is selected for each element the constraint rules may be tested. If a violation exists a different variant may be selected for the element in question e.g. with backtracking up the element sequence. According to such an embodiment various metrics may be available for use as a measure of constraints complexity e.g. including the number of failures the number of backtracking events the computational time needed to generate the desired number of legal alternatives etc.

According to an embodiment verification may be provided that one or more of the results of the various assessment and scoring procedures outlined above e.g. including legibility readability cognitive complexity constraints density fall within acceptable bounds before the concept representation is used in a decision making or market research activity.

According to another aspect the present disclosure may enable sharing a visual representation of a product concept and its various elements with a user other than the owner or author of the visual representation of the product concept. In an embodiment sharing a visual representation of a product concept may enable various aspects of collaboration and workflow management. For example when a concept is shared with another person a role may be specified and attendant permissions granted to the person with whom the visual representation is shared relative to various aspects of the concept including for example its representation its elements and element variants and constraints. For example roles may be assigned to one or more users such as Reviewer Editor and Manager in addition to Owner. Privileges associated with the various roles may include for example reviewing and commenting on editing approving locking the concept its elements and their variants the layout constraints and the like. The different roles may specify different permissions relative to one or more actions including for example creating a new concept editing renaming saving as sharing changing permissions transferring ownership and deleting a concept and its various components. The permissions may also include locking a concept and its components and or submitting the concept for fielding in a market research study.

According to another aspect the present disclosure may enable uploading the results of various concept assessment processes e.g. to make them available for use in subsequent decision making or innovation activities. Such assessment results may include scoring or rating of different concept variations and or element variants by internal and or external stakeholders such as personnel from Sales Marketing Engineering Manufacturing advertising agencies importers distributors sales channels personnel and so on. Results may also include market research findings such as the results obtained from monadic concept tests and conjoint measurement.

According to yet another aspect the present disclosure may enable searching for particular content within previously created visual representations of product concepts. For example when creating new concepts it may be useful to look at previously created concepts for inspiration and or to borrow elements and variants. It may also be useful to determine how certain elements have performed when tested with consumers or scored by stakeholders. In an embodiment a search capability may be provided which may display the results of the search based on relevance and incidence and or also based on assessment and testing performance. For example a marketer using the disclosed method to develop a new product concept for a low calorie desert may want to search previous product concepts that contained the phrases low calorie low fat diet and the like and see the results within the context in which they appeared i.e. which concept and which element variant s within that concept and determine how well they performed when tested with consumers in the past.

The above discussion of products and services and of decision making within an industrial and commercial context are provided for the purpose of example and illustration and should not be construed as limiting any method and or system of the present disclosure. It would be appreciated that any of the visual representations of product concepts herein may be used to represent any type of decision object of which different versions are being considered. Examples of such decision objects may include but are not limited to a government health insurance plan a public service campaign a political candidate s positions and promises in an election campaign an agenda for a sales meeting or a family reunion an itinerary for a scout troop s excursion to name a few. It is therefore intended that the present disclosure is amenable to use in such situations as well.

Additionally while various embodiments and features have been described herein it will be apparent to one having skill in the art that the various embodiments and features may be susceptible to combination with one another and or to various additional alternative combinations. All such combination of subject matter disclosed herein is intended to be contemplated by the present disclosure.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Having thus described the invention of the present application in detail and by reference to embodiments thereof it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of the invention defined in the appended claims.

