---

title: Variant database
abstract: The invention provides a system and method for describing polymorphisms or genetic variants based on information about mutations and relationships among them. The invention uses object-oriented concepts to describe variants as variant objects and relations among those variants as variant relation object, each object being an instance of an abstract class of genomic feature and able to contain any number of other objects. Information about genetic disorders is stored in association with the object that represents the pathogenic variant. Genetic test results are used to access corresponding objects to provide a report based on variants or polymorphisms in a patient's genetic material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09298804&OS=09298804&RS=09298804
owner: Good Start Genetics, Inc.
number: 09298804
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140711
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 667 575 filed Nov. 2 2012 which application claims priority to and the benefit of Provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 621 779 filed on Apr. 9 2012 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention generally relates to systems and methods for describing genetic variants and polymorphisms.

When a child is born suffering from symptoms that are associated with a genetic condition genetic testing can be very valuable to the child and his or her family. Genetic testing for the child can aid the diagnosis. Genetic testing for the parents can help the parents evaluate risks and factors as the family plans and grows. Hundreds of different genetic tests exist to study many of the 20 000 plus genes and include in a broader sense a variety of molecular and biochemical tests.

Lab results from any given genetic test are typically presented to a doctor who then interprets the results for the patient. For example if the raw results indicate a genetic mutation the doctor may look up whether that mutation has been reported in the literature. Some mutations are published in databases. These databases typically exist as a flat file of genetic sequence data sometimes organized by gene or by disease.

Searching the literature and database is a laborious process. Any given mutation may have several different common names arising from different studies reported in different publications. Databases provide for electronic lookup but are limited by their flat file structures. For example each known mutation may be stored as its own row in a table. Medical significance often results from certain combinations of mutations. For example a single nucleotide polymorphism may only be indicative of a disease when a certain deletion is present on the same chromosome. Flat file gene databases generally have no mechanism for storing information about such combinations. Even where a doctor can find database entries for all of the patient s lab results the doctor may then have to turn back to the literature to research the pathology of the particular combination of results. Thus even with existing flat file databases interpreting the results of genetic tests for patient counseling is a slow and imperfect process.

The invention generally relates to a system and method for describing genetic variants based on information about variant mutation types and information about relationships among variants. The invention uses object oriented concepts to store and describe variants and relations among those variants. Genetic information is stored as objects corresponding to known mutations as well as objects corresponding to relations among those mutations. Variant objects and relationship objects are all instances of one abstract class of genomic feature and objects may contain other objects. Since each object can contain any number of other objects a relation object can contain variant objects that each describe a mutation. Each variant object can be used by many relation objects and new variant objects or relation objects can be added without modifying the existing data structure. Thus descriptions of many variants can be represented without having to provide a new flat file entry for each new variant. Where a disorder is known to arise from a combination of mutations disorder specific information can be associated with the relation object that represents that combination even where the individual mutations are benign. This way genetic test results that indicate specific mutations can be used to access corresponding objects to provide a report of variants for a patient. The report can include medical information associated with the combination of mutations in the patient s genome. Since production of the patient report involves accessing the variant objects and relation objects the patient report can accurately and richly describe the patient s carrier screening results. With such tools reports can be provided to health professionals allowing them to counsel patients and families on important health issues.

In one aspect the invention involves providing a description of genetic variants in a patient s genome within the context of the production of a patient report. After genetic data representing mutations within the individual are received one or more modules of the invention operate to retrieve for each mutation a variant object comprising a description of the mutation. The variant objects are retrieved from storage in a variant database where they are stored as instances of an abstract class of genomic feature. The one or more modules are used to determine a relationship between mutations and retrieve a relation object from the database which is also an instance of the abstract class of genomic feature. In certain non limiting embodiments a results entry module is employed to retrieve the objects and determine relationships and a report production module is employed to provide the report. In some embodiments the one or more modules operate within an online transaction processing framework e.g. the results entry module accessing the objects to enter results the report production module accessing the variant representations etc. to enter results and to deliver the report with a rapid turnaround time.

Using object oriented concepts each object i.e. the variant objects and the variant relation objects inherits attributes from the abstract class such as for example a start position in genomic coordinate space. The objects can be provided by a relational database within a computer readable storage device. In some embodiments the production application operates in a production server within an online transaction processing framework and reads the objects from the storage device using the objects and associated information to produce a patient report.

Methods of the invention are extensible and new genomic features may be represented as they are introduced or discovered. An object can be used for example to represent an exon intron gene open reading frame epigenetically modified region methylated sequence regulatory region promoter splice site protein motif protein secondary structure and non coding region or any other such genomic region. Objects can be variants or variant relations and variant relation objects can contain any number of objects including variant objects and other variant relation objects. In some embodiments a variant object contains a description of a mutation for example as a systematic name with a numeral representing a distance from a start position a specification of a mutation type and one or more IUPAC characters representing nucleotides.

Information can be received from multiple different assay pipelines including for example next generation sequencing multi plex ligation dependent probe amplification analyses biochemical analyses or other such analyses. Information can be received that describes a novel mutation and the novel mutation can be included in the patient report. In some embodiments novel mutations are fed back into the underlying database either directly or via a development environment e.g. to be curated by geneticists. Novel mutation information can be stored in the database in the storage device for immediate inclusion or to be curated in a later stage.

In a related aspect the invention provides a system for providing a description of variants in a patient s genome the system having a processor and a computer readable storage device. Stored instructions when executed cause the processor to receive genetic data representing mutations in an individual retrieve from a database a first object with a description of a first mutation as a variant of a reference and a second object itself having a description of the second mutation. The processor can determine a relationship between the mutations and retrieve a third object including a description of the relationship. Each object is an instance of an abstract class of genomic feature and receives via object oriented concepts relating to inheritance and polymorphisms attributes of the abstract class. Use of these objects and concepts allows the system to represent a wide variety of different genomic constructs within a very simple and extensible design. This allows the system to provide variant reports with rich levels of semantic information for those genomic constructs within rapid turnaround times.

The production of patient reports according to embodiments of the invention draws upon a database of genetic information. Accordingly aspects of the invention provide systems and methods for the use and development of a database.

In another aspect the invention provides methods for building a database of variant descriptions by using a computer to provide an abstract class of genomic feature object. Mutations are described by creating variant objects as instances of the abstract class. Relations among mutations are described by creating variant relation objects also instances of the abstract class. A variant relation object is itself a subclass of variant and further may contain one or more variants including other variant relations. Descriptions of variants are represented in the database by objects such as one or more of the variant relation objects. As each object is an instance of the abstract class of genomic feature each object inherits attributes from that class such as for example start position in genomic coordinate space. Using object oriented concepts of polymorphism and composition a relation object can be described as having one or more other objects e.g. having a has a relationship to other objects . Under these concepts objects can be described as instances of the abstract class e.g. having an is a relationship to the abstract class .

Methods of constructing the database are provided that accommodate complex information. For example additional variants can be added by creating new variant objects and additional relations can be added by creating new variant relation objects. Methods of the invention can be used to provide a relational database for example stored within a computer readable storage device. Objects within the database can be branded with information showing the database version in which they appear. Methods further include releasing the branded objects to the production environment. Thus is provided a database that when released to production can be used to provide patient reports that include information pointing back to the database version upon which they were based.

In some embodiments new versions of the database replace or supplement previous versions. For example a database may include objects with description made in reference to human genome build 18 hg18 and a subsequent database may be based on hg19. In certain embodiments however a new version of the database includes the addition of new data to an existing version without overriding or modifying the existing version. In fact extensibility is a hallmark of the methods and systems of the invention. For example new types of genomic features not yet included in the database may be added without disrupting or changing the existing database contents.

In a related aspect the invention provides systems for building a database of variant descriptions by using a computer to provide an abstract class of genomic feature object. Systems of the invention include a computer processor operable to create variant objects each variant object being an instance of an abstract class of genomic feature object and including a description of a mutation. Each object can be stored in a computer storage device including a tangible non transitory computer readable medium. The processor is further operable to create relation objects. Each relation object is an instance of the abstract class of genomic feature object and may contain one or more genomic feature objects as well as a description of a relationship among the one or more genomic feature objects. Systems of the invention can then provide descriptions of variants based on at least one of the relation objects.

The invention generally relates to systems and methods for reporting genetic variants. Embodiments of the invention provide a database and interface application for use in a clinical environment to analyze genetic test results and produce a report describing a patient s genetic variants and their medical significance. The invention further includes systems and methods for developing a database of genetic information for use in production and research applications. In production the invention can use an online transaction processing framework to access the database in real time to produce the patient report. Accurate and specific real time transactions according to the invention allow for genetic testing results analysis and reporting with good turn around time TAT which supports medical practices to help treat patients in a cost effective way.

Examining a patient may include ordering one or more genetic tests to obtain test results to be used in diagnosis and counseling. The invention may operate with any suitable results from genetic testing or with any genetic information format known in the art including for example results obtained from laboratory tests or from family history information. In certain embodiments results are obtained by genetic testing.

Genetic testing including DNA based tests involves techniques used to test for genetic disorders through the direct examination of nucleic acids. Other genetic tests include biochemical tests for such gene products as enzymes and other proteins and for microscopic examination of stained or fluorescent chromosomes.

Genetic tests may be used in a variety of circumstances or for a variety of purposes. For example genetic testing includes carrier screening to identify unaffected individuals who carry one copy of a gene for a disease with a homozygous recessive genotype. Genetic testing can further include pre implantation genetic diagnosis prenatal diagnosis newborn screening genealogical testing screening and risk assessment for adult onset disorders such as Huntington s cancer or Alzheimer s disease as well as forensic and identity testing.

Testing is sometimes used just after birth to identify genetic disorders that can be treated early in life. Newborn tests include tests for phenylketonuria and congenital hypothyroidism.

Genetic tests can be used to diagnose genetic or chromosomal conditions at any point in a person s life to rule out or confirm a diagnosis. Carrier testing is used to identify people who carry one copy of a gene mutation that when present in two copies causes a genetic disorder. Prenatal testing is used to detect changes in a fetus s genes or chromosomes before birth.

Predictive testing is used to detect gene mutations associated with disorders that appear later in life. For example testing for a mutation in BRCA1 can help identify people at risk for breast cancer. Pre symptomatic testing can help identify those at risk for hemochromatosis.

Genetic testing further plays important roles in research. Researchers use existing lab techniques as well as develop new ones to study known genes discover new genes and understand genetic conditions.

At present there are more than 1 000 different genetic tests available. Genetic tests can be performed using a biological sample such as blood hair skin amniotic fluid cheek swabs from a buccal smear or other biological materials. Blood samples can be collected via syringe or through a finger prick or heel prick. Such biological samples are typically processed and sent to a laboratory. A number of genetic tests can be performed including karyotyping restriction fragment length polymorphism RFLP tests biochemical tests mass spectrometry tests such as tandem mass spectrometry MS MS tests for epigenetic phenomenon such as patterns of nucleic acid methylation and nucleic acid hybridization tests such as fluorescent in situ hybridization. In certain embodiments a nucleic acid is isolated and sequenced.

Nucleic acid template molecules e.g. DNA or RNA can be isolated from a sample containing other components such as proteins lipids and non template nucleic acids. Nucleic acid can be obtained directly from a patient or from a sample such as blood urine cerebrospinal fluid seminal fluid saliva sputum stool and tissue. Any tissue or body fluid specimen may be used as a source for nucleic acid. Nucleic acid can also be isolated from cultured cells such as a primary cell culture or a cell line. Generally nucleic acid can be extracted isolated amplified or analyzed by a variety of techniques such as those described by Green and Sambrook Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Fourth Edition Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Woodbury N.Y. 2 028 pages 2012 or as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 957 913 U.S. Pat. No. 7 776 616 U.S. Pat. No. 5 234 809 U.S. Pub. 2010 0285578 and U.S. Pub. 2002 0190663.

Nucleic acid obtained from biological samples may be fragmented to produce suitable fragments for analysis. Template nucleic acids may be fragmented or sheared to desired length using a variety of mechanical chemical and or enzymatic methods. Nucleic acid may be sheared by sonication brief exposure to a DNase RNase hydroshear instrument one or more restriction enzymes transposase or nicking enzyme exposure to heat plus magnesium or by shearing. RNA may be converted to cDNA e.g. before or after fragmentation. In one embodiment nucleic acid from a biological sample is fragmented by sonication. Generally individual nucleic acid template molecules can be from about 2 kb bases to about 40 kb e.g. 6 kb 10 kb fragments.

A biological sample as described herein may be lysed homogenized or fractionated in the presence of a detergent or surfactant. The concentration of the detergent in the buffer may be about 0.05 to about 10.0 e.g. 0.1 to about 2 . The detergent particularly a mild one that is non denaturing can act to solubilize the sample. Detergents may be ionic e.g. deoxycholate sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS N lauroylsarcosine and cetyltrimethylammonium bromide or nonionic e.g. octyl glucoside polyoxyethylene 9 dodecyl ether digitonin polysorbate such as that sold under the trademark TWEEN by Uniqema Americas Paterson N.J. CHO CH sold under the trademark TRITON X 100 by Dow Chemical Company Midland Mich. polidocanol n dodecyl beta D maltoside DDM or NP 40 nonylphenyl polyethylene glycol . A zwitterionic reagent may also be used in the purification schemes such as zwitterion 3 14 and 3 3 cholamidopropyl dimethyl ammonio 1 propanesulfonate CHAPS . Urea may also be added. Lysis or homogenization solutions may further contain other agents such as reducing agents. Examples of such reducing agents include dithiothreitol DTT mercaptoethanol dithioerythritol DTE glutathione GSH cysteine cysteamine tricarboxyethyl phosphine TCEP or salts of sulfurous acid.

In various embodiments the nucleic acid is amplified for example from the sample or after isolation from the sample. Amplification refers to production of additional copies of a nucleic acid sequence and is generally carried out using polymerase chain reaction PCR or other technologies known in the art. The amplification reaction may be any amplification reaction known in the art that amplifies nucleic acid molecules such as PCR nested PCR PCR single strand conformation polymorphism ligase chain reaction Barany F. The Ligase Chain Reaction in a PCR World Genome Research 1 5 16 1991 Barany F. Genetic disease detection and DNA amplification using cloned thermostable ligase PNAS 88 189 193 1991 U.S. Pat. No. 5 869 252 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 100 099 strand displacement amplification and restriction fragments length polymorphism transcription based amplification system rolling circle amplification and hyper branched rolling circle amplification. Further examples of amplification techniques that can be used include but are not limited to quantitative PCR quantitative fluorescent PCR QF PCR multiplex fluorescent PCR MF PCR real time PCR RTPCR restriction fragment length polymorphism PCR PCR RFLP in situ rolling circle amplification RCA bridge PCR picotiter PCR emulsion PCR transcription amplification self sustained sequence replication consensus sequence primed PCR arbitrarily primed PCR degenerate oligonucleotide primed PCR and nucleic acid based sequence amplification NABSA . Amplification methods that can be used include those described in U.S. Pats. 5 242 794 5 494 810 4 988 617 and 6 582 938. In certain embodiments the amplification reaction is PCR as described for example in Dieffenbach and Dveksler PCR Primer a Laboratory Manual 2nd Ed 2003 Cold Spring Harbor Press Plainview N.Y. U.S. Pat. No. 4 683 195 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 683 202 hereby incorporated by reference. Primers for PCR sequencing and other methods can be prepared by cloning direct chemical synthesis and other methods known in the art. Primers can also be obtained from commercial sources such as Eurofins MWG Operon Huntsville Ala. or Life Technologies Carlsbad Calif. .

With these methods a single copy of a specific target nucleic acid may be amplified to a level that can be detected by several different methodologies e.g. sequencing staining hybridization with a labeled probe incorporation of biotinylated primers followed by avidin enzyme conjugate detection or incorporation of 32P labeled dNTPs . Further the amplified segments created by an amplification process such as PCR are themselves efficient templates for subsequent PCR amplifications. After any processing steps e.g. obtaining isolating fragmenting or amplification nucleic acid can be sequenced.

Sequencing may be by any method known in the art. DNA sequencing techniques include classic dideoxy sequencing reactions Sanger method using labeled terminators or primers and gel separation in slab or capillary sequencing by synthesis using reversibly terminated labeled nucleotides pyrosequencing 454 sequencing Illumina Solexa sequencing allele specific hybridization to a library of labeled oligonucleotide probes sequencing by synthesis using allele specific hybridization to a library of labeled clones that is followed by ligation real time monitoring of the incorporation of labeled nucleotides during a polymerization step polony sequencing and SOLiD sequencing. Separated molecules may be sequenced by sequential or single extension reactions using polymerases or ligases as well as by single or sequential differential hybridizations with libraries of probes.

A sequencing technique that can be used includes for example use of sequencing by synthesis systems sold under the trademarks GS JUNIOR GS FLX and 454 SEQUENCING by 454 Life Sciences a Roche company Branford Conn. and described by Margulies M. et al. Genome sequencing in micro fabricated high density picotiter reactors Nature 437 376 380 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 5 583 024 U.S. Pat. No. 5 674 713 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 700 673 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. 454 sequencing involves two steps. In the first step of those systems DNA is sheared into fragments of approximately 300 800 base pairs and the fragments are blunt ended. Oligonucleotide adaptors are then ligated to the ends of the fragments. The adaptors serve as primers for amplification and sequencing of the fragments. The fragments can be attached to DNA capture beads e.g. streptavidin coated beads using e.g. Adaptor B which contains 5 biotin tag. The fragments attached to the beads are PCR amplified within droplets of an oil water emulsion. The result is multiple copies of clonally amplified DNA fragments on each bead. In the second step the beads are captured in wells pico liter sized . Pyrosequencing is performed on each DNA fragment in parallel. Addition of one or more nucleotides generates a light signal that is recorded by a CCD camera in a sequencing instrument. The signal strength is proportional to the number of nucleotides incorporated. Pyrosequencing makes use of pyrophosphate PPi which is released upon nucleotide addition. PPi is converted to ATP by ATP sulfurylase in the presence of adenosine phosphosulfate. Luciferase uses ATP to convert luciferin to oxyluciferin and this reaction generates light that is detected and analyzed.

Another example of a DNA sequencing technique that can be used is SOLiD technology by Applied Biosystems from Life Technologies Corporation Carlsbad Calif. . In SOLiD sequencing genomic DNA is sheared into fragments and adaptors are attached to the 5 and 3 ends of the fragments to generate a fragment library. Alternatively internal adaptors can be introduced by ligating adaptors to the 5 and 3 ends of the fragments circularizing the fragments digesting the circularized fragment to generate an internal adaptor and attaching adaptors to the 5 and 3 ends of the resulting fragments to generate a mate paired library. Next clonal bead populations are prepared in microreactors containing beads primers template and PCR components. Following PCR the templates are denatured and beads are enriched to separate the beads with extended templates. Templates on the selected beads are subjected to a 3 modification that permits bonding to a glass slide. The sequence can be determined by sequential hybridization and ligation of partially random oligonucleotides with a central determined base or pair of bases that is identified by a specific fluorophore. After a color is recorded the ligated oligonucleotide is removed and the process is then repeated.

Another example of a DNA sequencing technique that can be used is ion semiconductor sequencing using for example a system sold under the trademark ION TORRENT by Ion Torrent by Life Technologies South San Francisco Calif. . Ion semiconductor sequencing is described for example in Rothberg et al. An integrated semiconductor device enabling non optical genome sequencing Nature 475 348 352 2011 U.S. Pubs. 2009 0026082 2009 0127589 2010 0035252 2010 0137143 2010 0188073 2010 0197507 2010 0282617 2010 0300559 2010 0300895 2010 0301398 and 2010 0304982 the content of each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In ion semiconductor sequencing DNA is sheared into fragments of approximately 300 800 base pairs and the fragments are blunt ended. Oligonucleotide adaptors are then ligated to the ends of the fragments. The adaptors serve as primers for amplification and sequencing of the fragments. The fragments can be attached to a surface and are attached at a resolution such that the fragments are individually resolvable. Addition of one or more nucleotides releases a proton H which signal is detected and recorded in a sequencing instrument. The signal strength is proportional to the number of nucleotides incorporated.

Another example of a sequencing technology that can be used is Illumina sequencing. Illumina sequencing is based on the amplification of DNA on a solid surface using fold back PCR and anchored primers. Genomic DNA is fragmented and adapters are added to the 5 and 3 ends of the fragments. DNA fragments that are attached to the surface of flow cell channels are extended and bridge amplified. The fragments become double stranded and the double stranded molecules are denatured. Multiple cycles of the solid phase amplification followed by denaturation can create several million clusters of approximately 1 000 copies of single stranded DNA molecules of the same template in each channel of the flow cell. Primers DNA polymerase and four fluorophore labeled reversibly terminating nucleotides are used to perform sequential sequencing. After nucleotide incorporation a laser is used to excite the fluorophores and an image is captured and the identity of the first base is recorded. The 3 terminators and fluorophores from each incorporated base are removed and the incorporation detection and identification steps are repeated. Sequencing according to this technology is described in U.S. Pub. 2011 0009278 U.S. Pub. 2007 0114362 U.S. Pub. 2006 0024681 U.S. Pub. 2006 0292611 U.S. Pat. No. 7 960 120 U.S. Pat. No. 7 835 871 U.S. Pat. No. 7 232 656 U.S. Pat. No. 7 598 035 U.S. Pat. No. 6 306 597 U.S. Pat. No. 6 210 891 U.S. Pat. No. 6 828 100 U.S. Pat. No. 6 833 246 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 911 345 each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Another example of a sequencing technology that can be used includes the single molecule real time SMRT technology of Pacific Biosciences Menlo Park Calif. . In SMRT each of the four DNA bases is attached to one of four different fluorescent dyes. These dyes are phospholinked. A single DNA polymerase is immobilized with a single molecule of template single stranded DNA at the bottom of a zero mode waveguide ZMW . A ZMW is a confinement structure which enables observation of incorporation of a single nucleotide by DNA polymerase against the background of fluorescent nucleotides that rapidly diffuse in and out of the ZMW in microseconds . It takes several milliseconds to incorporate a nucleotide into a growing strand. During this time the fluorescent label is excited and produces a fluorescent signal and the fluorescent tag is cleaved off. Detection of the corresponding fluorescence of the dye indicates which base was incorporated. The process is repeated.

Another example of a sequencing technique that can be used is nanopore sequencing Soni G. V. and Meller A. Clin Chem 53 1996 2001 2007 . A nanopore is a small hole of the order of 1 nanometer in diameter. Immersion of a nanopore in a conducting fluid and application of a potential across it results in a slight electrical current due to conduction of ions through the nanopore. The amount of current which flows is sensitive to the size of the nanopore. As a DNA molecule passes through a nanopore each nucleotide on the DNA molecule obstructs the nanopore to a different degree. Thus the change in the current passing through the nanopore as the DNA molecule passes through the nanopore represents a reading of the DNA sequence.

Another example of a sequencing technique that can be used involves using a chemical sensitive field effect transistor chemFET array to sequence DNA for example as described in U.S. Pub. 2009 0026082 . In one example of the technique DNA molecules can be placed into reaction chambers and the template molecules can be hybridized to a sequencing primer bound to a polymerase. Incorporation of one or more triphosphates into a new nucleic acid strand at the 3 end of the sequencing primer can be detected by a change in current by a chemFET. An array can have multiple chemFET sensors. In another example single nucleic acids can be attached to beads and the nucleic acids can be amplified on the bead and the individual beads can be transferred to individual reaction chambers on a chemFET array with each chamber having a chemFET sensor and the nucleic acids can be sequenced.

Another example of a sequencing technique that can be used involves using a electron microscope as described for example by Moudrianakis E. N. and Beer M. in Base sequence determination in nucleic acids with the electron microscope III. Chemistry and microscopy of guanine labeled DNA PNAS 53 564 71 1965 . In one example of the technique individual DNA molecules are labeled using metallic labels that are distinguishable using an electron microscope. These molecules are then stretched on a flat surface and imaged using an electron microscope to measure sequences.

Sequencing generates a plurality of reads. Reads generally include sequences of nucleotide data less than about 150 bases in length or less than about 90 bases in length. In certain embodiments reads are between about 80 and about 90 bases e.g. about 85 bases in length. In some embodiments these are very short reads i.e. less than about 50 or about 30 bases in length. After obtaining sequence reads they can be assembled into sequence assemblies. Sequence assembly can be done by methods known in the art including reference based assemblies de novo assemblies assembly by alignment or combination methods. Assembly can include methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 209 130 titled Sequence Assembly and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 494 616 both by Porecca and Kennedy the contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes. In some embodiments sequence assembly uses the low coverage sequence assembly software LOCAS tool described by Klein et al. in LOCAS A low coverage sequence assembly tool for re sequencing projects PLoS One 6 8 article 23455 2011 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. Sequence assembly is described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 165 821 U.S. Pat. No. 7 809 509 U.S. Pat. No. 6 223 128 U.S. Pub. 2011 0257889 and U.S. Pub. 2009 0318310 the contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Nucleic acid sequencing assembly and analysis is but one assay pipeline of information compatible with the invention. The invention includes systems and methods that can use one or more different assay pipelines for genetic analysis. The invention further includes systems and methods adapted to operate with changing assay pipelines i.e. certain pipelines may over time cease to be used in systems and methods of the invention new assay pipelines may be introduced suspended assay pipelines may be re introduced and existing assay pipelines may be transformed or repurposed as technology or demand changes. Nucleic acid sequencing embraces a plurality of different assay pipelines including those discussed above. The analytical targets of individual assay pipelines may overlap or not. For example certain assay pipelines may be used to study one aspect of genetic information and a different assay pipeline may be used to re study that aspect or to confirm a prior study e.g. sequencing by Sanger dideoxy chain termination can complement Illumina sequencing . Other assay pipelines for use with the invention include those suitable for use with the aims and methodologies described herein such as the multiplex ligation dependent probe amplification systems sold under the trademark MLPA by MRC Holland Amsterdam the Netherlands triplet PCR or other genotyping techniques.

Multiplex ligation dependent probe amplification MLPA uses a pair of primer probe oligos in which each oligo of the pair has a hybridization portion and a fluorescently labeled primer portion. When the two oligos hybridize adjacent to each other on the target sequence they are ligated by a ligase. The primer portions are then used to amplify the ligated probes. Resulting product is separated by electrophoresis and the presence of fluorescent label at positions indicting the presence of target in the sample is detected. Using a single set of primers and hybridization portions for multiple targets the analysis can be multiplexed. Such techniques can be used for quantitative detection of genomic deletions duplications and point mutations. Multiplex ligation dependent probe amplification discriminates sequences that differ even by a single nucleotide and can be used to detect known mutations. Methods for use in multiplex ligation dependent amplification are described in Yau S C et al. Accurate diagnosis of carriers of deletions and duplications in Duchenne Becker muscular dystrophy by fluorescent dosage analysis J Med Genet. 33 7 550 558 1996 Procter M et al. Molecular diagnosis of Prader Willi and Angelman syndromes by methylation specific melting analysis and methylation specific multiplex ligation dependent probe amplification Clin Chem 52 7 1276 1283 2006 Bunyan D J et al. Dosage analysis of cancer predisposition genes by multiplex ligation dependent probe amplification Br J Cancer 91 6 1155 1159 2004 U.S. Pub. 2012 0059594 U.S. Pub. 2009 0203014 U.S. Pub. 2007 0161013 U.S. Pub. 2007 0092883 and U.S. Pub. 2006 0078894 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

In some embodiments assay pipelines make use of the triplet repeat primed PCR TP PCR method to test for variant alleles. TP PCR was developed to screen for expanded alleles in myotonic dystrophy as discussed in Warner J. P. et al. A general method for the detection of large CAG repeat expansions by fluorescent PCR J Med Genet. 33 12 1022 1026 1996 . The PCR assay uses fluorescently labeled primer pairs in which one sits by a repeat and the other sits at any of multiple repeated sites within a repeat. The results give a fluorescence trace ladder showing pathogenic repeats that cannot be amplified using flanking primers. TP PCR is discussed in Ciotti et al. Triplet repeat primed PCR TP PCR in molecular diagnostic testing for Friedreich ataxia J Mol Diagn 6 4 285 289 2004 .

In certain embodiments assay pipelines include restriction mapping analysis. With this method genomic DNA is digested with a restriction enzyme and analyzed on an electrophoresis gel or with a Southern blot to determine the presence or absence of a polymorphism that changes the recognition site for the restriction enzyme. This method can also be used to determine the presence or absence of SNP or indel variants by observing the lengths of the resulting DNA fragments. Restriction analysis is discussed in U.S. Pub. 2007 0042369.

Other assay pipelines include methods for detecting genetic markers at a site known to be associated with a genetic condition. Genetic markers can be detected using various tagged oligonucleotide hybridization technologies using for example microarrays or other chip based or bead based arrays. In some embodiments a sample from an individual is tested simultaneously for multiple e.g. thousands genetic markers. Microarray analysis allows for the detection of abnormalities at a high level of resolution. An array such as an SNP array allows for increased resolution to detect copy number changes while also allowing for copy neutral detection for both uniparental disomy and consanguinity . Detecting variants through arrays or marker hybridization is discussed for example in Schwartz S. Clinical utility of single nucleotide polymorphism arrays Clin Lab Med 31 4 581 94 2011 Li et al. Single nucleotide polymorphism genotyping and point mutation detected by ligation on microarrays J Nanosci Nanotechnol 11 2 994 1003 2011 . Reverse dot blot arrays can be used to detect autosomal recessive disorders such as thalassemia and provide for genotyping of wild type and thalassemia DNA using chips on which allele specific oligonucleotide probes are immobilized on membrane e.g. nylon . Assay pipelines can include array based tests such as those described in Lin et al. Development and evaluation of a reverse dot blog assay for the simultaneous detection of common alpha and beta thalassemia in Chinese Blood Cells Mol Dis 48 2 86 90 2012 Jaijo et al. Microarray based mutation analysis of 183 Spanish families with Usher syndrome Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 51 3 1311 7 2010 and Oliphant A. et al. BeadArray technology enabling an accurate cost effective approach to high throughput genotyping Biotechniques Suppl 56 8 60 1 2002 . DNA arrays in genetic diagnostics are discussed further in Yoo et al. Applications of DNA microarray in disease diagnostics J Microbiol Biotechnol 19 7 635 46 2009 U.S. Pat. No. 6 913 879 U.S. Pub. 2012 0179384 and U.S. Pub. 2010 0248984 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Any assay pipeline can be initiated. For example a variant e.g. an SNP or indel can be identified using oligonucleotide ligation assay in which two probes are hybridized over an SNP and are ligated only if identical to the target DNA one of which has a 3 end specific to the target allele. The probes are only hybridized in the presence of the target. Product is detected by gel electrophoresis MALDI TOF mass spectrometry or by capillary electrophoresis. This assay has been used to report 11 unique cystic fibrosis alleles. Schwartz et al. Identification of cystic fibrosis variants by polymerase chain reaction oligonucleotide ligation assay J Mol Diag 11 3 211 215 2009 . Oligonucleotide ligation assay for use in pipelines is described further in U.S. Pub. 2008 0076118 and U.S. Pub. 2002 0182609 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Assay pipelines generally provide results that include a description of a patient s genetic information. That information can be an identification of a mutation or variant of a known gene or other genetic region. For example in some embodiments result information includes a sequence listing of part of a patient s genes. In certain embodiments the results are provided as for example a gene sequence file e.g. a FASTA file .

In some embodiments results are provided according to a systematic nomenclature. For example a variant can be described by a systematic comparison to a specified reference which is assumed to be unchanging and identified by a unique label such as a name or accession number. For a given gene coding region or open reading frame the A of the ATG start codon is denoted nucleotide 1 and the nucleotide 5 to 1 is 1 there is no zero . A lowercase g c or m prefix set off by a period indicates genomic DNA cDNA or mitochondrial DNA respectively.

A systematic name can be used to describe a number of variant types including for example substitutions deletions insertions and variable copy numbers. A substitution name starts with a number followed by a from to markup. Thus 199A G shows that at position 199 of the reference sequence A is replaced by a G. A deletion is shown by del after the number. Thus 223delT shows the deletion of T at nt 223 and 997 999del shows the deletion of three nucleotides alternatively this mutation can be denoted as 997 999delTTC . In short tandem repeats the 3 nt is arbitrarily assigned e.g. a TG deletion is designated 1997 1998delTG or 1997 1998del where 1997 is the first T before C . Insertions are shown by ins after an interval. Thus 200 201insT denotes that T was inserted between nts 200 and 201. Variable short repeats appear as 997 GT N N . Here 997 is the first nucleotide of the dinucleotide GT which is repeated N to N times in the population.

Variants in introns can use the intron number with a positive number indicating a distance from the G of the invariant donor GU or a negative number indicating a distance from an invariant G of the acceptor site AG. Thus IVS3 1C T shows a C to T substitution at nt 1 of intron 3. In any case cDNA nucleotide numbering may be used to show the location of the mutation for example in an intron. Thus c.1999 1C T denotes the C to T substitution at nt 1 after nucleotide 1997 of the cDNA. Similarly c.1997 2A C shows the A to C substitution at nt 2 upstream of nucleotide 1997 of the cDNA. When the full length genomic sequence is known the mutation can also be designated by the nt number of the reference sequence.

Relative to a reference a patient s genome may vary by more than one mutation or by a complex mutation that is describable by more than one character string or systematic name. The invention further provides systems and methods for describing more than one variant using a systematic name. For example two mutations in the same allele can be listed within brackets as follows 1997G T 2001A C . Systematic nomenclature is discussed in Antonarakis and the Nomenclature Working Group Recommendations for a nomenclature system for human gene mutations Human Mutation 11 1 3 1998 .

Assay pipelines produce data that represent one or more mutations. These data are received and a computer application can be used to process the data determine the relationships among the variants and to prepare a patient report. The computer application can produce the report by making use of a variant database. As described herein a variant database according to the invention can include medical information for reporting that is associated with variants relationships among variants or both. The computer application produces the report in a transaction that includes accessing those database records that are indicated by the processed interpreted pipeline results.

A variant database according to the invention allows for rapid transaction turn around times for patient report production by employing a novel structure to store and describe variants. In accordance with the invention individual variants are stored and relationships among variants are stored that use the related variants without needing to duplicate or modify the stored variants.

In certain embodiments the invention uses the object oriented principles of abstraction inheritance polymorphism and containment. For example the invention uses abstraction to represent nearly every feature of a chromosome as an abstract class of genomic feature. The abstract class of genomic feature can be created having one or more attributes or operations sometimes called methods . For example in some embodiments as shown in genomic feature is an abstract class of object with a Start Position attribute. The abstract class of genomic feature can also optionally include an end position. These attributes are simply a start position and an optional end position for a chromosome on a given genomic assembly e.g. hg18 . Each subclass of genomic feature inherits those methods or attributes from any superclass. However each subclass as a class can be imbued with methods or attributes unique to that subclass. Accordingly different subclasses can be used to represent different categories of different genomic features.

Among subclasses of a superclass the different attributes or methods of the different subclasses confer polymorphic properties on the subclasses. For example exon and intron may each be a subclass of genomic feature and instances of each may be contained by a gene subclass the containment relation is not pictured in and an exon may have a method to predict protein domains or secondary structure based on known motifs where an intron would not have such a method.

As shown in inheritance is provided by the is a relationship among levels of class. Each class of object has what is known as an is a relationship to the object depicted above it in the hierarchy shown in . In general when one object has an is a relationship with another when the object is a subclass of the superclass all instances of the object have the methods and attributes of the parent unless overridden . Inheritance polymorphism and composition is discussed in Weisfeld The Object Oriented Thought Process Third Edition Addison Wesley Upper Saddle River N.J. 2012 .

In certain embodiments object oriented concepts of composition are used to provide descriptions of variants. An insight of the invention is that while many classes of genomic features can be described by an is a relationship to a superclass e.g. an exon is a genomic feature a gene is a genomic feature GH1 is a gene some genomic features are suited to being described through a has a relationship. For example the GH1 gene has 5 exons and 4 introns and could be described as a gene object containing 5 exon objects and 4 intron objects. Note here that since the gene is contained in a chromosome genomic feature object the exon and intron objects are thus also contained in the chromosome genomic feature object. Further note that an object can be contained in or had by multiple objects. For example if it is desired to describe a gene cloned into a plasmid a plasmid genomic feature object can contain the gene object without disturbing the containment of that gene object by a chromosomal gene object. Thus the invention uses composition or containment relationships i.e. has a relationships along with the is a hierarchy to produce multiple levels of ownership relationships.

Embodiments of the invention implement a three level supertype subtype hierarchy as shown in . At the top of the hierarchy is genomic feature. Genomic feature is an abstract superclass i.e. there would never be any standalone instance of genomic feature without a subtype . The second level provides subtypes of genomic feature such as for example variant gene intron exon pseudogene splice site etc. This level may be extended as required with new subtypes. The third level includes subtypes of variant. Like genomic feature variant is also an abstract supertype there are no instances of variant without one of its subtypes. Note that it is an artifact of the object relational mapping as to how the conceptual objects are mapped to physical tables. Tables can be stored in a tangible non transitory computer readable medium such that the tables embody the hierarchy as depicted in the figures herein. However these are non limiting illustrations and other embodiments are within the scope of the invention.

In certain embodiments each level of the hierarchy may be represented by a corresponding table and those tables can be joined by parent child one to one relationships through foreign keys. Thus in some embodiments genomic feature variant and SNPandSmallInsOrDel for single nucleotide polymorphism SNP or a small insertion or deletion exist as three separate tables that are joined by parent child one to one relationships through foreign keys. The actual physical mappings can be various and other table to data mappings are within the scope of the invention.

Since variant is a supertype it can have attributes and methods specific to variants and how they relate to other objects. For example the variant class can have an alias attribute so that each object that is a variant has an alias attribute. The alias attribute can be used to capture names for variants such as the common descriptive names reported in the literature. Further the variant class can contain attributes related to medical significance or pathogenicity e.g. pathogenic predicted pathogenic etc. and supporting references to supporting literature to be drawn on in providing evidence for and supporting the patient report produced by systems and methods of the invention.

One feature of the design is provided by making the variant relation a subtype of variant such that each variant relation is a variant.

Accordingly the invention provides systems and methods for the production of reports that include descriptions of genetic variants for a patient and information significant by virtue of relationships among variants therein. For example a mutation may be found within a human mitochondrial genome e.g. m.593T C that is not reported to have clinical statistical significance on its own. An SNP object can store this as a variant. Where the literature has reported that this variant with another variant i.e. m.11778G A exhibits a synergistic effect on the severity of Leber s hereditary optic neuropathy LHON a variant relation object can be created containing the m.593T C variant object and the m.11778G A variant object and the variant relation object can include the reporting information such as the results described in Zhang et al. Is mitochondrial tRNAphe variant m.593T C a synergistically pathogenic mutation in Chinese LHON families with m.11778G A PLoS ONE 6 10 e26511 2011 .

As another illustrative example people who have two mutated copies of the BRCA2 gene are reported to be susceptible to Fanconi anemia. While not all variants within the BRCA2 gene are detrimental there are a number of different known variants that are known to be detrimental. Further the BRCA2 protein requires the protein products of the CHK2 and FANCD2 genes so mutations in those genes can when present in combination with certain variants in the BRCA2 gene be oncogenic see e.g. Yoshida K. and Miki Y. Role of BRCA1 and BRCA2 as regulators of DNA repair transcription and cell cycle in response to DNA damage Cancer Sci 95 11 866 71 2004 Friedenson B. BRCA1 and BRCA2 pathways and the risk of cancers other than breast or ovarian Med Gen Med 7 2 60 2005 . Here a number of variants are known and combinations of those variants are known or suspected to be either pathogenic or benign. Each known pathogenic combination can be represented by a variant relation that contains the relevant variants as well as supporting documentation from the literature.

Thus it can be seen that systems and methods of the invention can capture various types of associations among variants including for example variants in cis recessive homozygous complex combinations and mitochondrial variants. Further associations that can be captured include heterozygosity or loss of heterozygosity for example in somatic cells. In some embodiments a variant relationship can be used to represent heterozygosity in non Mendelian frequencies such as for example 33 10 1 or 0.01 .

Variant relation objects can be used to describe many combinations and associations of variant objects which include other variant relation objects thus providing a mechanism for systems and methods of the invention to tailor reporting to the real world semantic relationship among genetic information.

It is noted here that is an instance level diagram sometimes called an object diagram representing instances of genetic information as stored in or reported by systems and methods of the invention. In comparison generally represents use of a class diagram . As can be seen from these figures unified modeling language UML is useful for diagramming aspects of embodiments of the invention. Diagrams in UML such as class diagrams and instance level diagrams are discussed in Roff UML A Beginner s Guide McGraw Hill Berkeley Calif. 314 pages 2003 .

A variant database according to the invention can be used to report complex genetic relationships in a nimble dynamic fashion. New information can be introduced by instantiating new objects without disrupting the existing structure or data. It will be appreciated that a number of genetic variants can produce many combinations For example where a bi allelic A or B diploid locus and a tri allelic C D or E diploid locus are proximal to one another in for example a gene an individual may have any of six genotypes AC AD AE BC BD or BE on either chromosome for a total of 21 diploid genotypes. However a number of variant types such as polynucleotide repeats and copy number variants can have numerous alleles. Further the number of variants associated with clinical significance be they SNPs indels polyN variants etc. is large and ever growing. The invention allows for agile reporting of the known clinical significance of combinations of the variants.

Cystic fibrosis is a genetic disease affecting the lungs caused by mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance receptor CFTR gene located on the long arm of chromosome 7. Over 1 500 mutations or variants of the gene are known. One class of mutations includes R117H i.e. c.350G A based on GenBank cDNA reference sequence NM 000492.3 and interferes with normal ion transport. The phenotypic consequences of R117H may be attributable to the presence of a poly T variant in the acceptor splice site of intron 8 of CFTR in cis with R117H. Common variants of this poly T site are T5 T7 and T9 and evidence supports the role of T5 in pathogenic alternate splicing or exon skipping. Aspects of the genetics of cystic fibrosis are discussed in Rowntree and Harris The phenotypic consequences of CFTR mutations Ann Hum Gen 67 471 485 2003 Thauvin Robinet et al. The very low penetrance of cystic fibrosis for the R117H mutation a reappraisal for genetic counseling and newborn screening J Med Genet 46 752 758 2009 and Kreindler Cystic fibrosis exploiting its genetic basis in the hunt for new therapies Pharmacol Ther 125 2 219 229 2010 the contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The relation among the R117H variant the T5 variant the T7 variant and the T9 variant can be illustrated using the concepts illustrated by the diagram shown in . As seen in each variant and variant relation is an instance of the abstract class of genomic feature .

For example since R117H represents as a single nucleotide polymorphism in which an adenine is substituted for a guanine at the position represented by nucleotide 350 of the cDNA sequence represented in GenBank by reference number NM 000492.3 systems and methods of the invention create a variant object that has an is a relationship with an SNP Variant class that itself has an is a relationship with the abstract class . That is variant is an instance of class . Similarly a variant object is created for the T5 variant as an instance of a class of PolyT Variant that is a subclass of abstract class . Objects are also created for the T7 and T9 variants. Where a result indicates that a patient has a genotype that is homozygous for T5 a T5 T5 variant relation is created. Further systems and methods of the invention can create a R117H T5 T5 variant relation object that contains the variant object and the T5 T5 variant relation . Note that variant relation object also is itself an instance of the abstract class of genomic feature . Systems and methods of the invention can thus be used to produce a report that contains the R117H T5 T5 variant relation object and thus provides a description of genetic variants for a patient.

It should further be appreciated that the label R117H refers to an amino acid substitution. Here if either the amino acid substitution or the nucleotide variant e.g. c.350G A is included object can still be instantiated and further relation could use either an amino acid variant object or a corresponding nucleotide variant object. In certain embodiments a computer application interprets the amino acid string to instantiate a nucleotide variant object.

Using the object hierarchy as discussed above assay pipeline data is used to create a genotypic model in a production environment. A variant in the data is identified e.g. by comparison to a reference such as hg18 and a variant object is invoked. As needed other variant objects are invoked each containing the data from the assay pipeline. Based on the assay pipeline to reference comparison the relationships among the variants are invoked as relation objects from the database and the associated text or content is provided in a report.

Systems and methods of the invention provide for numerous such transactions with rapid turn around times by using and re using the objects provided by a database. Using techniques associated with online transaction processing systems and methods of the invention can rapidly provide reports based on incoming assay pipeline data requiring a complex array of relationships among the underlying variants.

Making reference to it will be seen that both R117H and polyT are represented by corresponding variant objects. Since polyT is in fact a class of variants it is represented by a super class bold type no underlining that is a subclass of the abstract superclass of genomic feature not shown in . Since R117H is a specific variant it is represented by an object shown to be an instance underlined type of a class. The polyT super class is in turn instantiated as T5 T7 and T9. Each diploid combination of the T5 T7 and T9 object is shown as a variant relation object that is itself an instance of the abstract superclass of genomic feature. Each diploid combination of polyT variant is in turn shown in combination with the R117H variant as a variant relation e.g. the blocks labeled R117H T7 T7 R117H T5 T7 etc. .

Systems and methods of the invention are provided to handle relations among variants much more complex than those represented in . In certain embodiments systems and methods of the invention can provide descriptions of variants and accommodate all reported variants and combinations and provide distinct reporting text with each. For example once the R117H polyT structure is correctly represented the annotations associated with the variant relations can be expanded and new variants and new variant relations can be added without any limitation imposed by the design.

Thus with the addition of T6 for example existing files queries sort orders or look up keys need not be modified. See for example Huang et al. Comparative analysis of common CFTR polymorphisms poly T TG repeats and M470V in a healthy Chinese population World J Gastroenterol 14 12 1925 30 2008 . If an assay pipeline gave results indicating a R117H T6 T9 variant with T6 not yet represented applications of the invention can be operated to invoke and create a new variant object inheriting attributes and methods from the abstract class of genomic feature. Then R117H is fetched and T9 is fetched a T6 T9 relationship is instantiated and made to contain the new T6 variant and the existing T9 variant. The T6 T9 relation object and the R117H object are related by a relation object that is then created. In certain embodiment a physician in the production environment can then cause the new objects to be contributed to the database either directly or by transmitting the new objects to the development environment where they are further curated by geneticists. The physician or geneticists may further contribute clinically significant information for example to either the T6 variant object the new R117H T6 T9 relation object or both referencing for example Huang 2008 . Based on objects in the database or newly created objects as needed the application provides a description of genetic variants for a patient by producing a report containing material associated with the appropriate variant relation or variant objects.

Further implementations of systems of the invention are extensible using for example multiple parallel processors or storage virtualization devices such as redundant arrays of independent disks RAID memory as discussed in more detail below. Accordingly systems and methods of the invention can support a high number of contemporaneous users and transactions.

In some embodiments implementations of the invention benefit from high throughput use by exploiting high volumes of transactions to support the growth of the underlying substantive contents of the database. For example every novel variant or relation can be tagged given appropriate anonymization and informed consent. Thus input of a new variant and associated information via the curation of incoming results makes that new variant associated information and containing relationships available. In some embodiments new variants are made available substantially immediately e.g. data is anonymized and released into production . Moreover where the subject genetic information relates to an infectious agent and not to genetic information of a patient e.g. the genetic information concerning variants of anthrax or West Nile virus there may be clinically significant genetic information that does not required patient consent or other regulatory compliance for shared use and embodiments of the invention may provide rapid global bio threat response tools. Further embodiments of the invention may be implemented in a distributed pattern with system users working in different buildings or even cities to curate results or generate reports as ordered by medical professionals.

As discussed herein embodiments of the invention are disclosed suitable for deployment in a clinical environment. In some embodiments systems and methods of the invention receive assay pipeline results from laboratories via laboratory information management systems LIMS and use a production terminal to present a dashboard interface engine for use by a system user to review and finalize reports.

A LIMS Laboratory Information Management System is shown in with a laboratory automation module internal to it. Lab automation provides for the set up and running of liquid handling robots. Sample chain of custody is assured through the entire workflow.

Due to the assay pipeline integration the disclosed system accommodates both automatically derived and manually entered results over a wide range of assays. For example the system automatically analyzes NGS results e.g. from the Illumina HiSeq DNA sequencer using an NGS assay pipeline shown in . Other assay pipelines provide results that can be entered by the scientist or laboratory technologist specializing in that particular assay e.g. MLPA genotyping and so forth . The system itself can extend to accommodate a wide range of different types of assays.

In some embodiments variants are picked up from the variant database for the NGS assay pipeline processing shown in the top assay pipeline in . The fast lookup afforded by the variant data design according to the invention enables rapid turn around time TAT for production of a patient report. Rapid turn around time through fast report generation provides an accurate and valuable clinical diagnostic product.

Each result module depicted on the right side of can use a look up in the variant database to provide a result report into the dashboard or interface engine. Results may be looked up and reported automatically or with human intervention depending on the nature of the assay or the implementation of the embodiment. The overall system architecture continues the extensibility principle of the disclosed variant database design. New assay pipelines may be added to the system without disrupting existing assay pipelines just as new variants mutations may be added to the variant database without disrupting existing variants already used in patient reporting. Existing assay pipelines can be obsolesced for example as genes covered by the older assays are subsumed into NGS or other assay pipeline processing.

As results are processed the variant database data representation drives the user interface and results amalgamation for generation of a patient report. The patient report may be generated by a report generation module which can be triggered by a laboratory director s approval event from the lab director dashboard. In some embodiments the system automates one or more reporting category selection e.g. for deterministic situations where a negative result is indisputable. In certain embodiments in some cases the system assists the laboratory director in making an informed choice on patient results. Further systems and methods of the invention combine results as needed from assay pipelines and generate a composite report which can then be inspected or approved by a laboratory director or physician. Report generation uses the variant data to report the variant seen on the patient report. Moreover the variant data model of the invention enables identification of the variant irrespective of the type of assay used for the experiment.

In some embodiments a database application is developed in Perl e.g. optionally using BioPerl . Object oriented development in Perl is discussed in Tisdall Mastering Perl for Bioinformatics O Reilly Associates Inc. Sebastopol Calif. 2003. In some embodiments a database application database and production application are developed using BioPerl a collection of Perl modules that allows for object oriented development of bioinformatics applications. BioPerl is available for download from the website of the Comprehensive Perl Archive Network CPAN . See also Dwyer Genomic Perl Cambridge University Press 2003 and Zak CGI Perl 1st Edition Thomson Learning 2002 .

In certain embodiments applications and databases are developed using Java and optionally the BioJava collection of objects developed at EBI Sanger in 1998 by Matthew Pocock and Thomas Down. BioJava provides an application programming interface API and is discussed in Holland et al. BioJava an open source framework for bioinformatics Bioinformatics 24 18 2096 2097 2008 . Programming in Java is discussed in Liang Introduction to Java Programming Comprehensive 8th Edition Prentice Hall Upper Saddle River N.J. 2011 and in Poo et al. Object Oriented Programming and Java Springer Singapore Singapore 322 p. 2008 .

Applications and databases of the invention can be developed using the Ruby programming language and optionally BioRuby Ruby on Rails or a combination thereof. Ruby or BioRuby can be implemented in Linux Mac OS X and Windows as well as with JRuby on the Java Virtual Machine and supports object oriented development. See Metz Practical Object Oriented Design in Ruby An Agile Primer Addison Wesley 2012 and Goto et al. BioRuby bioinformatics software for the Ruby programming language Bioinformatics 26 20 2617 2619 2010 .

Systems and methods of the invention can be developed using the Groovy programming language and the web development framework Grails. Grails is an open source model view controller MVC web framework and development platform that provides domain classes that carry application data for display by the view. Grails domain classes can generate the underlying database schema. Grails provides a development platform for applications including web applications as well as a database and an object relational mapping framework called Grails Object Relational Mapping GORM . The GORM can map objects to relational databases and represent relationships between those objects. GORM relies on the Hibernate object relational persistence framework to map complex domain classes to relational database tables. Grails further includes the Jetty web container and server and a web page layout framework SiteMesh to create web components. Groovy and Grails are discussed in Judd et al. Beginning Groovy and Grails Apress Berkeley Calif. 414 p. 2008 Brown The Definitive Guide to Grails Apress Berkeley Calif. 618 p. 2009 .

One skilled in the art will recognize that different aspects or components of the invention may be developed or implemented using any of or a combination of development languages and environments such as those discussed herein. A development application can be developed using object oriented techniques to describe variants based on entries in a development database with an object oriented design and corresponding relational database schema.

In certain embodiments the implementation of the development database uses the object oriented OO principles of abstraction inheritance polymorphism and containment as discussed above. The development database e.g. stored in development storage thus provides an abstract class of genomic feature object. Development application can be used to create variant objects each being an instance of the abstract class of genomic feature object and comprising a description of a mutation. The data can be received via network from for example assay pipelines assay pipelines and analysis system production application or research application server . Development geneticists or other personnel can input information about variants as data using development terminal having memory coupled to processor .

As shown in a development version of the database is implemented in step . Step represents an optional release of a research version. In some embodiments patient data collected for example in the production environment is anonymized and de identified subject to informed consent compliance with regulations etc. and analyzed within the research database in R D systems e.g. as stored in research storage in .

Novel variants of any characterization e.g. pathogenic suspected pathogenic benign etc. can be automatically added to the variant database as a new variant by the assay pipeline. Variants added in the production environment can be labeled or identified according to the clinic lab or enterprise providing the information. Existing or novel variants and relation objects can be tracked further using production information relation to frequency i.e. number of times observed in individuals possibly by ethnicity . Over time genetic researchers or other parties can vet new data for potential inclusion into subsequent development versions and thus into the production instance of the database step in . Further the database is versionable and each patient report that is produced can reference the version of the variant database used.

Turning back to release from development can optionally provide a research database housed in research storage for use via research application server having processor and memory . A production version of the database can be released and stored in production storage to be accessed by production application server having memory coupled to processor .

While the storage terminals analytical systems and servers are shown in as discrete blocks connected via network each component can be distributed over any suitable hardware system or collected into a single hardware system. For example in some embodiments production storage production application server production terminal and analysis server are all provided by an analytical unit of an NGS sequencing system accessing a database according to embodiments of the invention and assembling sequence reads from NGS and reporting results through the terminal hardware e.g. monitor keyboard and mouse connected directly to the NGS system. In some embodiments this functionality is provided as a plug in or functional component of sequence assembly and reporting software such as for example the GS De Novo Assembler known as gsAssembler or Newbler NEW assemBLER from 454 Life Sciences a Roche Company Branford Conn. . Newbler is designed to assemble reads from sequencing systems such as the GS FLX from 454 Life Sciences described e.g. in Kumar S. et al. Genomics 11 571 2010 and Margulies et al. Nature 437 376 380 2005 . In some embodiments a production application is provided as functionality within a sequence analyzing system such as the HiSeq 2500 1500 system or the Genome AnalyzerliX system sold by Illumina Inc. San Diego Calif. for example as downloadable content an upgrade or a software component .

In certain embodiments as shown for example in using existing network technologies components of the invention can be implemented in systems that include multiple hardware and software components including both special purpose computing devices and general purpose computers running software applications of the invention. Components of systems of the invention can be distributed geographically. For example assay pipelines can include laboratory facilities in separate geographical locations from the production or development terminals. Any application server or storage can be housed in server computer hardware as provided for example by server farms or cloud computing systems. Exemplary hardware for implementing systems and methods of the invention is discussed below.

With the development database thus created and populated it can be released into production i.e. step in for use in a clinical environment to produce reports including patient genotype information. In some embodiments releasing to production includes anonymizing and abstracting the data. In fact in some embodiments strict separation is maintained among the development and production systems.

While described generally in terms of on line transaction processing OLTP it will be appreciated that embodiments of the invention further may be employed in on line analytical processing OLAP and decision support systems DSS . For example in some embodiments research application server and research storage provide a DSS OLAP system.

By providing descriptions of variants in an agile OLTP framework based on an object oriented relational database schema systems and methods of the invention can reliably and rapidly produce patient reports as assay pipeline results are obtained. Patient reports can include information about known and novel mutations including mutations known to be or suspected to be disease associated. In certain embodiments systems and methods of the invention are used to produce patient reports based on variants and relations among them in a patient s genome and to provide diagnostic prognostic or treatment information about associated medical conditions. Database records and patient reports can contain information relating to a variety of conditions including for example cancer cystic fibrosis Tay Sachs disease Canavan disease fragile X familial dysautonomia Bloom syndrome Fanconi anemia group C Gaucher disease mucolipidosis type IV Niemann Pick disease type A spinal muscular atrophy SMA Sickle cell anemia Thalassemia or novel mutations.

Other embodiments are within the scope and spirit of the invention. For example due to the nature of software functions described above can be implemented using software hardware firmware hardwiring or combinations of any of these. Features implementing functions can also be physically located at various positions including being distributed such that portions of functions are implemented at different physical locations.

As one skilled in the art would recognize as necessary or best suited for performance of the methods of the invention systems of the invention include one or more processors e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU etc. computer readable storage devices e.g. main memory static memory etc. or combinations thereof which communicate with each other via a bus.

In an exemplary embodiment shown in a system can include assay pipelines that provide genetic information directly into development and production or assay pipelines that include analysis computer including e.g. one or more of processor and memory to analyze results and provide those results.

Steps of the invention may be performed using development application server production application server research application server or a combination thereof. Each server may be engaged over network or directly to each other or one of terminal or . Preferably production data is segregated from research data or development data. In fact one benefit of systems structured according to embodiments disclosed herein is that the inherent structural segregation of research development and production components of the system facilitate segregation of the data. This allows for example the production application to operate without raising regulatory complexities that may be associated with some patient data.

Systems of the invention may include one or more computers. For example any of the terminals servers and storage devices depicted in can be or can be implemented with one or more computers. A computer generally includes one or more processors computer readable storage devices and input output devices.

A processor may be any suitable processor such as the microprocessor sold under the trademark XEON E7 by Intel Santa Clara Calif. or the microprocessor sold under the trademark OPTERON 6200 by AMD Sunnyvale Calif. .

A computer readable storage device e.g. memory or or any of storage or in according to the invention can include any machine readable medium or media on or in which is stored instructions one or more software applications data or both. The instructions when executed can implement any or all of the functionality described herein. The data can be the genomic data as described herein. The term computer readable storage device shall be taken to include without limit one or more disk drives tape drives memory devices such as RAM ROM EPROM etc. optical storage devices and or any other non transitory and tangible storage medium or media.

Input output devices according to the invention may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT monitor an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse or trackpad a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a touchscreen an accelerometer a microphone a cellular radio frequency antenna and a network interface device which can be for example a network interface card NIC Wi Fi card or cellular modem.

References and citations to other documents such as patents patent applications patent publications journals books papers web contents have been made throughout this disclosure. All such documents are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

Various modifications of the invention and many further embodiments thereof in addition to those shown and described herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the full contents of this document including references to the scientific and patent literature cited herein. The subject matter herein contains important information exemplification and guidance that can be adapted to the practice of this invention in its various embodiments and equivalents thereof.

