---

title: Prioritization of group communications at a wireless communication device
abstract: An embodiment is directed to switching between server-arbitrated group communication sessions at an access terminal (AT) within a wireless communications system. The AT participates in a first group communication session when it receives an announce message announcing a second group communication session, acquires priority levels for the first and/or second group communication sessions and determines whether to switch between sessions based on the priority level(s). In another embodiment, the AT participates in a given processing task (e.g., a gaming session, a voice call, a group session, etc.) when it receives an alert that relates to a group communication session. If the alert is specially configured to force the given access terminal to drop the given processing task, the AT drops the given processing task irrespective of whether the AT later joins the announced group communication session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426632&OS=09426632&RS=09426632
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09426632
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140123
---
The present Application for Patent is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 791 167 entitled PRIORITIZATION OF GROUP COMMUNICATIONS AT A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE filed on Mar. 8 2013 by the same inventors as the subject application which is a Divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 502 036 entitled PRIORITIZATION OF GROUP COMMUNICATIONS AT A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE filed on Jul. 13 2009 by the same inventors as the subject application which claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 080 970 entitled PRIORITIZATION OF GROUP COMMUNICATIONS AT A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE filed on Jul. 15 2008 Provisional Application No. 61 167 077 entitled EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION SESSIONS WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on Apr. 6 2009 and Provisional Application No. 61 162 976 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ALLOCATING TRAFFIC CHANNEL RESOURCES FOR COMMUNICATIONS FROM MOBILE DEVICES filed on Mar. 24 2009 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the invention are directed to prioritization of group communication sessions at a wireless communications device within a wireless communications system.

There exists a wireless telecommunication service that provides a quick one to one or one to many communication between groups of wireless communication devices such as mobile telephones that is generically referred to as Push To Talk PTT capability. The specific PTT group of recipient devices for the communicating wireless device is commonly set up by the carrier. A PTT communication connection is typically initiated by a single button push on the wireless device that activates a half duplex communication between the speaker and each member device of the group and once the button is released the device can receive incoming PTT transmissions. In some arrangements the PTT speaker will have the floor where no other group member can speak while the speaker is speaking. Once the speaker releases the PTT button any other individual member of the group can engage their PTT button and they will have the floor. The PTT speaker with the floor will control the floor unless the speaker is dropped to allow another speaker or the speaker relinquishes control of the floor.

In some instances it may be necessary or desirable to force the speaker off the floor. This may be necessary to allow emergency messages to be received at the wireless communication device without regard to the current PTT speaker. For example in a fire the fire chief s instructions to the fire brigade may be determined to be the most important item to receive in the group. Therefore in some extant PTT systems when the fire chief attempts to send a PTT communication the group communication server servicing the group may drop the communication of any other group speakers and connect the fire chief with the group.

Another example may be an application that needs to be received by the wireless communication device that takes priority of the data channel over any other application being transmitted over the data channel. For example the application may be a security patch that needs to be received and installed on the wireless communication device at that moment. Thus when the application is pushed to the wireless device it may be necessary to drop any current data communication and allow the security patch communication to occur.

Currently there are various methods in which a speaker may be forced to relinquish the floor or a communication priority forced as between competing applications. For example on a communication server servicing the communication group the server may be provided with ruthless preemption capabilities. When a communication is received at the group communication server the server can determine priority of the communication and remove the speaker from the floor of one or more of the communication devices in a communication group that are listening or receiving communications from the speaker. However this prioritization schema is difficult to change and requires modifications to the group communication server that is arbitrating the group session and enforcing the priority rules for each participating group member.

An embodiment is directed to switching between server arbitrated group communication sessions at an access terminal AT within a wireless communications system. The AT participates in a first group communication session when it receives an announce message announcing a second group communication session acquires priority levels for the first and or second group communication sessions and determines whether to switch between sessions based on the priority level s . In another embodiment the AT participates in a given processing task e.g. a gaming session a voice call a group session etc. when it receives an alert that relates to a group communication session. If the alert is specially configured to force the given access terminal to drop the given processing task the AT drops the given processing task irrespective of whether the AT later joins the announced group communication session.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

In this description the terms communication device wireless device wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device mobile device and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term application as used herein is intended to encompass executable and non executable software files raw data aggregated data patches and other code segments.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Furthermore embodiments described below are directed to an implementation within a CDMA2000 network architecture. Reference can be had to the known standards and construction of CDMA2000 systems and network interfaces as would be known to one of skill in the art. Other telecommunication standards such as CDMA2000 Evolution Data Optimized EvDO IMT 2000 GSM W CDMA etc. can likewise be used in implementations embodiments disclosed herein.

With reference to the figures in which like numerals represent like elements throughout illustrates one embodiment of a system with a group communication server and one or more wireless telecommunication devices in a communication group such as wireless telephone smart pager and personal digital assistant PDA that communicate with other wireless telecommunication devices across a wireless network . In the system each wireless telecommunication device is capable of selectively and directly communicating across the wireless communication network with a target set of one or more other wireless telecommunication devices. For example the target set for mobile telephone can be all devices in the communication group or a subset thereof such as pager and or PDA .

In this embodiment the wireless telecommunication device such as mobile telephone notifies the group communication computer device shown here as group communication server which is present on a server side LAN across the wireless network to indicate that the wireless device is present i.e. accessible on the wireless network . The group communication computer device can share this information with the set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the first wireless telecommunication device or can also share the information with other computer devices resident on the server side LAN or accessible across the wireless network . The group communication computer device can have an attached or accessible database to store the group identification data for the wireless devices.

In an example a direct communication such as a PTT communication can be established through a half duplex channel between the communicating wireless telecommunication device and the one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the target set of devices. While embodiments of the invention are described as generally being directed to half duplex communication sessions it will be readily apparent that other embodiments can be directed to any server arbitrated communication session including full duplex communication sessions e.g. VoIP etc. . Also the group communication computer device can attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network .

The group communication computer device can also inform the wireless telecommunication device of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set if one or more of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have not informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network . Further while the group communication computer device is shown here as having the attached database of group identification data the group communication computer device can have group identity data resident thereupon and perform all storage functions described herein. Also shown here is a secondary data storage that can be accessed either by group member devices or server side components such that applications and larger segments of data can be stored thereat rather than being immediately sent between computer devices.

The group communication can be voice applications graphic media such as pictures in JPEG TIF and the like or audio files such as MP3 MP4 WAV and the like. The media can also be video or streaming media such as a multimedia application PowerPoint MOV file and the like . Also in an example the group communication session can correspond to a half duplex audio conference among members of the communication group . As will be appreciated in this type of group communication session the speed of the connection and the quality of media delivery e.g. voice data are important to maintain Quality of Service QoS to the end user s .

The group communication server is connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PDSN and or a broadcast serving node BSN shown here resident as on a carrier network . The PDSN and BSN with the associated base stations can constitute a regional communication system e.g. an access network or radio access network and may further include other server side components that will collectively control communications to the wireless communication devices for a geographical or virtual region. Each PDSN or BSN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF is typically located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the base transceiver station sometimes referred to as branch to source BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices such as cellular telephones by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.

Cellular telephones and mobile telecommunication devices such as wireless telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held PDAs. These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device such as cellular telephone can download many types of applications such as web pages applets MIDlets games and data. In wireless devices that have designated a communication group the wireless communication device can directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication session. However all such group direct communication sessions may be server arbitrated which means that the communication sessions occur through or be at the control of the group communication server . Each data packet of the devices does not necessarily have to travel through the group communication server itself but the group communication server may be able to ultimately control the communication session because the group communication server will typically be the only server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device.

As discussed previously because PTT communication is facilitated using half duplex communication when one wireless device such as cellular telephone has the floor the other wireless devices in the group are listening. is a block diagram illustrating a wireless telecommunications device e.g. a mobile telephone according to an embodiment of the invention. Referring to the wireless telecommunications device includes a PTT button that is configured to open a direct communication to a target set of devices e.g. other members of the communication group . The wireless device is also shown as having a graphics display to the user of the wireless device . The wireless device includes a computer platform that can handle voice and data packets and receive and execute software applications transmitted across the wireless network to include the group communications.

The computer platform includes among other components an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit programmable gate array or other data processing device. The ASIC is installed at the time of manufacture of the wireless device and may not normally be upgradeable. The ASIC or other processor executes an application programming interface API layer which includes the resident application environment and can include the operating system loaded on the ASIC . The resident application environment interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. An example of a resident application environment is the binary runtime environment for wireless BREW software developed by QUALCOMM for wireless device platforms.

As shown here while the wireless device can be a mobile telephone with a graphics display in alternative embodiments the wireless device can correspond to any type of wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory can include read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform can also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. Here the priority list as described herein is preferably stored in the local database prior to being moved into memory .

In an embodiment of the wireless communication device of the computer platform also includes a direct communication interface that can open the direct communication channel from the wireless device e.g. for a half duplex voice communication in a PTT call . The direct communication interface may also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless device. The direct communication interface typically includes hardware as is known in the art.

As will be described in more detail below at least one embodiment of the invention is directed to a handset enforced priority handling for group communication sessions whereby the mobile telephone can selectively drop a lower priority communication for a higher priority communication. The memory of the mobile telephone stores a local priority list. In an example the local priority list can include priorities associated with group communication sessions e.g. group priority levels priority levels associated with particular calling parties etc. and these priorities can be user defined and or server defined. The priority list is a listing in some embodiments from higher priority to lower priority of the relative priority of communications. In an example the priority list may include the identity of one or more calling party identifiers communication devices and or group identifiers that when a request for communication or an announcement or other similar type communication e.g. an alert is received the wireless communication device can evaluate the associated priority levels of the current call and the announced call to determine whether to selectively drop the current call and send a notice to communication server that it is available.

An alert as used in this context is any communication received at a wireless communication device requesting the status of the device for receiving a group communication. The status may include a dormant off state active on state busy unavailable or ready available . The alert may be received in various ways at wireless communication device . For example while the voice channel is being used for PTT communications e.g. the 1X channel of some PTT communication networks the data channel such as an EvDO channel of some PTT communication networks may be available. Thus even if the voice channel is unavailable due to the half duplex nature of the communication wireless communication device may still receive the alert over the data channel.

The communications affected or controlled by the priority list may vary but may include voice applications graphic media such as pictures in JPEG TIF and the like or audio files such as MP3 MP4 WAV and the like. Further the contents of the priority list may vary from one single communication may include multiple communications of the same priority or may include multiple communications of varying priority. For example memory may have stored thereon a priority list of a single mobile device which is the mobile device for the captain of a fire department. The communication group of which mobile telephone is a part of are mobile devices used by the fire department in emergency situations. For example to facilitate directives of the captain of the fire department when mobile telephone receives an alert or other similar type communication from the mobile device of the captain e.g. the captain wishes to take the floor mobile telephone drops the current communication sends a notice to communication server that it is available for a call and awaits the communication from the captain. The priority list stored in memory may be modified as needed or allowed. For example a parent may wish to indicate that they are the top priority communication for a child s mobile device but not allow the child to change the priority. Thus the priority list stored in memory may be password protected or controlled from a central location or by an administrative user.

Additionally the priority list can be dynamically updated based upon other actions or conditions of the wireless communication device . For example the incoming communication can be allowed if it is attempted from the same communicating device more than a predetermined number of times in a predetermined period e.g. more than three communication attempts over 20 seconds. Another example is that the priority list can change if the wireless communication device has the ability to determine its location through a resident GPS or other location detection mechanism. Thus in such embodiment a greater priority can be given to a communicating device or communication that may have more importance given the location of the device e.g. changing the priority of emergency personnel communications when the wireless communication device is at a stadium or other event location. As the wireless communication device can be configured to have the priority list pushed out to the computer platform the dynamic modification of the priority list can be accomplished through either user interaction or from other computer devices on the wireless network such as the group communication server . For example the group communication server learns that a wireless communication device is at a stadium and pushes an updated priority list to the wireless communication device giving priority to stadium emergency personnel.

Additionally the priority list may be stored in memory using various methods. For example the priority list may be added to memory locally i.e. a person or user accesses a program which initializes an API from API layer . A graphical input interface may be shown on graphics display . A user may then enter using keyboard of mobile telephone . The priority list may also be pushed to the mobile device remotely. For example a program on a computing platform provides an interface that allows a user to configure the priority list of mobile telephone . Once the list is completed it may be pushed to mobile telephone via various communication means including a data channel such as an EvDO channel.

The PTT Client is an application that offers access to PTT services through an external interface here shown at a PTT aware UI . The PTT Client includes all the functions required to enable mobile operating system applications such as the other resident applications . In addition to providing access to PTT services with the PTT Client the PTT Client can act as an isolation layer between all PTT aware applications and the interface to the group communication computer device . In this embodiment the PTT Client maintains access to PTT services responds to group communication requests processes all PTT aware mobile operating system applications requests for PTT services processes all outgoing PTT requests collects and packages vocoder packets for originating PTT talk spurts and parses packets of vocoder data for terminated PTT talk spurts.

In one embodiment a handler will provide direct access to the external communication interface or here an AMSS interface. The media handler responds to PTT requests for group directed services by invoking the appropriate APIs such as those from other resident applications and can service the requests from the user and informs the user the result of any group directed media request. The handler can be invoked to have the AMSS interface brought to an active state and ready to broadcast on the network as is more fully described herein. Thus the AMSS or other communication interface typically has a dormant state and active state such that resources are only requested from the wireless communication network in the active state of the communication interface e.g. the device components are powered up and ready to transmit.

In one embodiment PTT Client may interface with a prioritization application stored as a resident application . When an alert is received by PTT Client PTT Client communicates with the prioritization application. The prioritization application will access a prioritization list such as the prioritization list stored in memory of and determine if the incoming alert is to receive priority over a current communication being handled by PTT Client . If the incoming alert does have priority PTT Client drops the current call and causes the mobile device to transmit a ready signal to receive the incoming priority communication. Thus PTT Client will change the state of the device from unavailable to available.

While is described above with respect to transitioning the communication device from an active state during which the device is engaged in a current group communication session to a ready state that permits the device to join an announced group communication session it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to a transition from any type of processing task or activity to the ready state. In other words in at least one embodiment an alert such as a group call announcement can force the device to exit any processing task to facilitate the device to join an announced group communication session. The processing task may correspond to a gaming session a web browsing session a one to one voice call or a group communication session. While embodiments described below are generally directed to forcing the device to selectively exit out of or drop a current group communication session in favor of a newly announced group communication session it will thereby be appreciated that these embodiments could also be modified to scenarios where the device is currently engaged in other types of processing tasks.

In an example the incoming group communication can be an announcement or alert that is specially configured to cause the state of the wireless communication device to change to the ready state i.e. to drop an ongoing group communication or to change a function of the device but not necessarily to cause a second group communication to be received immediately thereafter. Thus the alert is not necessarily directly associated with a new session but could rather function as an instruction to transition from state to state .

Referring to the wireless communication device receives an announcement of a group communication session e.g. a PTT session . Upon receiving the call announcement the wireless communication device determines whether it is currently available such that the call announcement can be accepted . For example the determination of may evaluate to available if the wireless communication device is in ready state when the call announcement is received at or alternatively may evaluate to unavailable if the wireless communication device is in active state when the call announcement is received at . If the decision block determines that the wireless communication device is available to join a communication session the wireless communication device sends an indication that indicates the availability of the wireless communication device and its willingness to join the announced communication session. For example the message sent in may correspond to an announce ACK accept message that is sent to a serving base station and then forwarded onto the group communications server that is arbitrating the announced communication session.

Otherwise if the decision block determines the wireless communication device to currently be unavailable e.g. because the device is already engaged in another session the communication interface of the device is in active state etc. the wireless communication device accesses the priority list stored thereon and determines whether the newly announced communication session from has a higher priority than a current communication session at the device . Again the priority level determination can be performed in a number of ways. For example the group identifier that identifies the group associated with the announced group communication session and or the current group communication session can be used to establish their respective priority levels. In an alternative example a calling party identifier of an originator of the announced group communication session can be used to establish the priority level for the announced group communication session. In another example a calling party identifier of a current floor holder of the device s current group communication session can be used to establish the priority level for the device s current group communication session. The priority levels may be denoted quantitatively e.g. with a ranking between 0 and 7 indicated by a table in the priority list etc. or hierarchically e.g. relative priority levels can be stored in the priority list . For example the message sent in may correspond to an announce ACK reject message that is sent to a serving base station and then forwarded onto the group communications server that is arbitrating the announced communication session. In an example if the current and announced group communication sessions are determined to have the same priority the device can either maintain the current group communication session or switch to the new group communication session in such instances. In an example selecting between equal priority sessions can be based on a preference of the user and can be stored in association with the priority list e.g. Switch to new session if priority levels are equal or Maintain current session if priority levels are equal etc. .

Based on the priority level comparison in the wireless communication device determines whether to switch from its current group communication session to the newly announced group communication session from . Accordingly if the wireless communication device determines not to switch to the newly announced group communication session based on the associated priority levels the wireless communication device sends a signal indicating that the wireless communication device is unavailable . Otherwise if the wireless communication device determines to switch to the newly announced group communication session based on the associated priority levels the wireless communication device drops its current communication session . Accordingly in the wireless communication device transitions from the active state to the ready state . As such the process advances to at this point and the wireless communication device indicates its availability and willingness to join the announced group communication session as discussed above e.g. an announce ACK accept message is sent to the server . While is described and shown such that the current communication is dropped before the device accepts the new session it will be appreciated that may occur prior to in another embodiment of the invention. Thus the particular order of operations illustrated in at least with respect to and is not intended to limit the embodiments thereto.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art permitting the wireless communication device to handle its own priority levels reduces the complexities associated with individual priority enforcement for multiple users at the server . Also individual users are permitted more flexibility in terms of establishing call priorities so that important calls are not ignored when the users are already engaged in a call.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

