---

title: System for restraining a worker at a utility platform of an aerial device
abstract: A restraint system for restraining a worker to a platform of an aerial device comprises a restraint liner and a platform strap. The restraint liner includes four sidewalls, a floor, a lip, an interior anchor, and an exterior anchor. The floor may be coupled to one end of the four sidewalls, while the lip may be coupled to the opposing end of the four sidewalls and may extend therefrom. The interior anchor may be positioned on an interior surface of a first sidewall and operable to couple to a liner strap coupled to a worker. The exterior anchor may be positioned on an exterior surface of the first sidewall. The platform strap may be coupled to the exterior anchor and operable to couple to the platform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09221660&OS=09221660&RS=09221660
owner: Altec Industries, Inc.
number: 09221660
owner_city: Birmingham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141125
---
This non provisional patent application is a continuation application and claims priority benefit with regard to all common subject matter of commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 682 247 filed Nov. 20 2012 entitled SYSTEM FOR RESTRAINING A WORKER AT A UTILITY PLATFORM OF AN AERIAL DEVICE and issued Dec. 2 2014 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 899 380 the 380 Patent . The 380 Patent is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety into the present application.

Embodiments of the current invention relate to utility platform safety. More particularly embodiments of the current invention relate to systems for restraining workers at a utility platform.

Electric utility workers typically use an aerial device in order to access overhead electric power lines and electric power components for repair or maintenance. The aerial device is usually mounted on a truck and generally includes a boom arm with a platform connected at the boom tip. The platform includes a bucket or cherry picker in which one or more utility workers stand while performing the repair or maintenance. The platform of such a device is generally non conductive but is not dielectrically tested and not considered as insulating. An insulated liner provides desirable electrical isolation from high voltage lines or components but does not include metal fall restraint features therein. While metal fall restraints may provide mechanical strength needed to support the weight of a worker the metal is electrically conductive which is not allowed in an insulated platform. As an alternative the platform may include an anchor usually on the outside of the platform near the boom tip to which the worker attaches one end of a strap. The other end of the strap may be connected to a fall arrest harness that the worker wears. One drawback to this system is that it allows the worker to fall out of the platform if the platform tips or if the worker loses his balance. Another drawback is that the system allows the worker to voluntarily climb over the side at least the rear side of the platform thereby putting himself in danger of falling. Yet another drawback to the system is that the fall arrest components may allow the wearer to contact a lower level at low boom elevations.

Embodiments of the current invention solve the above mentioned problems and provide a distinct advance in the art of insulated utility platforms. More particularly embodiments of the invention provide a system of fall restraint for use with a utility platform with an insulated liner.

One embodiment of the current invention may provide a restraint liner for use with a platform coupled to a boom tip that broadly comprises four sidewalls a floor a lip an interior anchor an exterior anchor and a platform strap channel. The floor may be coupled to one end of the four sidewalls while the lip may be coupled to the opposing end of the four sidewalls and may extend therefrom. The interior anchor may be positioned on an interior surface of a first sidewall and operable to couple to a liner strap coupled to a worker. The exterior anchor may be positioned on an exterior surface of the first sidewall and operable to couple to a platform strap coupled to the platform. The platform strap channel may protrude inward along the first sidewall and may extend upward from the exterior anchor operable to retain a portion of the platform strap.

Another embodiment of the current invention may provide a restraint system for restraining a worker to a platform of an aerial device that broadly comprises a restraint liner and a platform strap. The restraint liner includes four sidewalls a floor a lip an interior anchor and an exterior anchor. The floor may be coupled to one end of the four sidewalls while the lip may be coupled to the opposing end of the four sidewalls and may extend therefrom. The interior anchor may be positioned on an interior surface of a first sidewall and operable to couple to a liner strap coupled to a worker. The exterior anchor may be positioned on an exterior surface of the first sidewall. The platform strap may be coupled to the exterior anchor and operable to couple to the platform.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other aspects and advantages of the current invention will be apparent from the following detailed description of the embodiments and the accompanying drawing figures.

The drawing figures do not limit the current invention to the specific embodiments disclosed and described herein. The drawings are not necessarily to scale emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the invention.

The following detailed description of the invention references the accompanying drawings that illustrate specific embodiments in which the invention can be practiced. The embodiments are intended to describe aspects of the invention in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments can be utilized and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the current invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense. The scope of the current invention is defined only by the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

In this description references to one embodiment an embodiment embodiments various embodiments certain embodiments some embodiments or other embodiments mean that the feature or features being referred to are included in at least one embodiment of the technology. Separate references to one embodiment an embodiment embodiments various embodiments certain embodiments some embodiments or other embodiments in this description do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment and are also not mutually exclusive unless so stated and or except as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the description. For example a feature structure act etc. described in one embodiment may also be included in other embodiments but is not necessarily included. Thus the current technology can include a variety of combinations and or integrations of the embodiments described herein.

A restraint system constructed in accordance with various embodiments of the current invention for use with a platform is shown in . The restraint system may broadly comprise a restraint liner and a platform strap . In various embodiments the restraint liner is insulated. The restraint system generally adapts a platform that only offers fall arrest protection into a platform that includes fall restraint protection.

The platform is typically a bucket or cherry picker that couples to the tip of a boom that is integrated with a truck mounted aerial device. The platform may include four bucket sidewalls and a bucket floor that form an enlarged cavity in which at least one worker typically an electrical utility worker can stand. The platform may also include a bucket lip . There may be enough space within the platform for the worker to walk around as well as store tools or supplies. Furthermore there may be controls on the tip of the boom that enable the worker to position and orient the platform such as by raising lowering or rotating the platform .

The four bucket sidewalls may be successively coupled to one another to form a cylinder with a roughly rectangular cross section. Thus two of the opposing bucket sidewalls may have a greater width than the other two opposing bucket sidewalls . In other embodiments the four bucket sidewalls may form a cylinder with a roughly square cross section. The bucket floor may be coupled to one unconnected end of the four bucket sidewalls . The bucket lip may be coupled to the opposing unconnected end of the four bucket sidewalls and may form a flange that protrudes outward therefrom. Although the dimensions of the platform may vary widely an exemplary platform for one or two workers may have an opening of approximately 24 inches by approximately 48 inches and may have a height of approximately 42 inches.

The platform may further include a pair of ribs to which the tip of the boom not shown in the figures attaches. The ribs may be vertically oriented elongated spaced apart and may protrude from the exterior surface of one of the wider bucket sidewalls . In addition the platform may include a platform anchor positioned either on one of the ribs or in proximity to the ribs .

The restraint liner as best seen in and may comprise a first sidewall a second sidewall a third sidewall a fourth sidewall a floor a lip a plurality of lip plates an interior anchor an exterior anchor and a platform strap channel . The restraint liner generally fits within the cavity of the platform and thus may have a similar shape. The first second third and fourth sidewalls may be coupled to one anther at opposing edges to form a cylinder with a four sided cross section having the same rectangular or square aspect ratio as the platform in which the restraint liner will be placed. Thus in various embodiments one pair of opposing sidewalls such as the first sidewall and the third sidewall may have a greater width than the other pair of opposing sidewalls such as the second sidewall and the fourth sidewall . The first sidewall may align with the bucket sidewall of the platform that includes the ribs to which the boom tip is connected. The floor may couple to one unconnected end of the sidewalls . Generally the outer surfaces of the floor and the sidewalls of the restraint liner have the same or slightly smaller dimensions as the inner surfaces of the bucket floor and the bucket sidewalls .

In other embodiments of the restraint liner A another embodiment of the first sidewall A may have a variable thickness that tapers from the interior and exterior anchors to the edges of the first sidewall A as seen in . An exemplary first sidewall A may have a frusto pyramidal shape wherein the apex of the frustopyramid or the thickest portion of the first sidewall A is located at the interior and exterior anchors and the base or the thinnest portion of the first sidewall A is located at the edges.

The lip may couple to the opposing unconnected end of the sidewalls and may form a flange that protrudes outward therefrom. The lip of the restraint liner may be coupled to the bucket lip of the platform using the lip plates . The lip may include four pairs of openings that align with similar openings on the bucket lip through which threaded fasteners such as screws may be positioned. Each lip plate may include a pair of openings that align with a pair openings on the lip . Thus a lip plate may be placed on the upper or top surface of the lip over a pair of openings therein. Threaded fasteners may be placed through the openings of the lip plate the lip and the bucket lip to couple the restraint liner to the platform . Typically the lip plates and the threaded fasteners are non conductive. In alternative embodiments non conductive washers may be used in place of the lip plates .

The restraint liner may be manufactured from non conductive or insulating materials such as plastics. An exemplary restraint liner may be made from polyethylene pellets that is manufactured in a spun or rotated mold process. The general thickness of the restraint liner may vary although an exemplary restraint liner may be approximately 0.125 inches thick.

Generally the platform is not modified to accommodate the restraint liner . Thus any features of the restraint liner such as the interior anchor the exterior anchor or the platform strap channel must be implemented to fit within the interior space of the platform .

The interior anchor may be positioned on the interior surface of one of the sidewalls typically the sidewall B such as the first sidewall that aligns with the side of the platform that couples with the boom tip. In various embodiments the interior anchor may be positioned to align with the exterior anchor . The interior anchor may be formed from a recess in the first sidewall that extends inward. The interior anchor may include an interior anchor plate coupled to the first sidewall at the recess . The interior anchor plate may include a loop opening or similar feature to which a restraint that includes a connector may be fastened. The interior anchor plate may be coupled to the first sidewall with threaded fasteners that engage first threaded inserts or sockets embedded in the recess best seen in . Thus the first sidewall may have an increased wall thickness in the area of the recess to contain the first threaded inserts . Having the first threaded inserts contained entirely within the thickness of the first sidewall allows the interior anchor plate to be attached to the recess without penetrating the first sidewall or creating an opening from the interior of the first sidewall to the exterior of the first sidewall . The interior anchor is generally positioned on the first sidewall below the waist of an average worker. Thus the interior anchor may be placed at an exemplary height of 36 inches or less above the floor of the restraint liner .

The exterior anchor may be positioned on the exterior surface of the first sidewall in order to be located in proximity to the platform anchor positioned on one of the ribs of the platform . The exterior anchor may be formed from a recess in the first sidewall . In typical embodiments the exterior anchor may be formed in the exterior side of the same recess as for the interior anchor . In other embodiments the exterior anchor may be formed in a second recess of the first sidewall . The exterior anchor may include an exterior anchor plate coupled to the exterior of the recess . The exterior anchor plate may include a loop opening or similar feature to which the platform strap may be fastened. The exterior anchor plate may be coupled to the first sidewall with threaded fasteners that engage second threaded inserts embedded in the recess best seen in . The second threaded inserts may be aligned axially with the first threaded inserts . Alternatively the second threaded inserts may be axially offset from the first threaded inserts wherein the offset is presented to provide sufficient insulating material between the first and second threaded inserts to exceed the insulating rating of the restraint liner .

The platform strap channel may include an inward protruding recess of rectangular cross section that extends upward along the first sidewall from the exterior anchor . The platform strap channel provides a space within the confines of the platform for a portion of the platform strap to reside while it is connected from the exterior anchor to the platform anchor . The lip of the restraint liner may include a cutout or opening in alignment with the platform strap channel to allow access for the platform strap to pass from the restraint liner over the bucket lip of the platform .

The platform strap is generally manufactured from flexible but strengthened material that may withstand a large amount of tension. The platform strap includes a liner end and a platform end. In some embodiments the liner end may include a releasable connector that couples to the exterior anchor of the restraint liner . In other embodiments the liner end may be non releasably coupled to the exterior anchor . The platform end typically includes a releasable connector that couples to the platform anchor . The length of the platform strap is typically very close to the distance from the exterior anchor through the platform strap channel to the platform anchor such that the platform strap is taut with very little slack when the platform strap is coupled to the platform anchor . In some embodiments the platform strap may include a length adjustment structure such as a buckle or the like that allows the length of the platform strap to be adjusted to match the distance from the exterior anchor to the platform anchor .

The restraint system may be utilized as follows. The restraint liner may be manufactured as discussed above. The interior anchor plate may be attached to the interior anchor . If the platform strap is non releasably coupled to the exterior anchor then the platform strap may be connected to the exterior anchor plate followed by the exterior anchor plate being attached to the exterior anchor . If the platform strap is releasably coupled to the exterior anchor then the platform strap is thus connected typically after the exterior anchor plate is attached to the exterior anchor . The restraint liner is then placed within the cavity of a platform . The first sidewall of the restraint liner may be aligned with the bucket sidewall that includes the ribs to which the boom tip is coupled. The platform end of the platform strap may be coupled to the platform anchor . If necessary the length of the platform strap may be adjusted such that the platform strap is taut.

The restraint system generally operates to restrain the worker within the platform such that the worker is unlikely to fall out of the platform . Furthermore the restraint system generally prevents the worker from leaving the cavity of the platform even voluntarily. In various embodiments the worker may wear a harness to which one end of a liner strap may connect in the vicinity of the worker s waist. In other embodiments the liner strap may couple to the worker s belt or a belt loop. The other end of the liner strap may couple to the interior anchor which is generally positioned on the first sidewall below waist level of the average worker. Thus the liner strap restricts upward motion of the worker while he is in the platform . The restraint system also prevents the worker from falling if the platform tips over as the worker is tethered through the liner strap the interior anchor the exterior anchor and the platform strap to the platform anchor .

Although the invention has been described with reference to the embodiments illustrated in the attached drawing figures it is noted that equivalents may be employed and substitutions made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as recited in the claims.

