---

title: Two-path plasmonic interferometer with integrated detector
abstract: An electrically tunable terahertz two-path plasmonic interferometer with an integrated detection element can down convert a terahertz field to a rectified DC signal. The integrated detector utilizes a resonant plasmonic homodyne mixing mechanism that measures the component of the plasma waves in-phase with an excitation field that functions as the local oscillator in the mixer. The plasmonic interferometer comprises two independently tuned electrical paths. The plasmonic interferometer enables a spectrometer-on-a-chip where the tuning of electrical path length plays an analogous role to that of physical path length in macroscopic Fourier transform interferometers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09297638&OS=09297638&RS=09297638
owner: Research Foundation of The City of New York
number: 09297638
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141021
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U. S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to widely voltage tunable far and mid infrared plasmonic devices and in particular to a two path plasmonic interferometer with an integrated detector.

There has been significant recent interest in the development of terahertz THz integrated circuits ICs and detectors based upon two dimensional electron gas 2DEG systems in semiconductor nanostructures and graphene. Because microwave and THz fields coupled to a 2DEG excite plasma waves plasmon based field effect devices can operate well above f the cutoff frequency determined by carrier transit times. See M. I. Dyakonov and M. S. Shur 71 2465 1993 M. I. Dyakonov and M. S. Shur 43 380 1996 W. F. Andress et al. 12 2272 2012 P. J. Burke et al. 76 745 2000 and M. J. W. Rodwell et al. 48 2606 2001 . Overdamped plasmonic field effect transistors FETs have been fabricated from III V Si and graphene material systems and utilized for room temperature THz detection. See D. Coquillat et al. 18 6024 2010 S. Preu et al. 2 278 2012 M. S. Vitiello et al. 12 96 2011 A. D. Gaspare et al. 100 203504 2012 A. Pitanti et al. 101 141103 2012 A. Lisauskas et al. 105 114511 2009 S. Boppel et al. 47 661 2011 and L. Vicarelli et al. 11 865 2012 . To exploit underdamped two dimensional 2D plasmons in III V heterostructures cryogenic operation of a high electron mobility transistor HEMT is generally required. See W. F. Andress et al. 12 2272 2012 P. J. Burke et al. 76 745 2000 X. G. Peralta et al. 81 1627 2002 E. A. Shaner et al. 87 193507 2005 W. Knap et al. 81 4637 2002 and V. M. Muravev and I. V. Kukushkin 100 082102 2012 . Within this constraint potential applications such as THz plasmonic ICs and detectors based on III V heterostructures can be realized in these material systems. However as the quality of large area graphene materials improves similar devices may emerge that operate in the mid infrared at room temperature.

The present invention is directed to a two path plasmonic interferometer comprising a layer providing a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG or two dimensional hole gas 2DHG a source and a drain at opposing ends of the 2DEG or 2DHG layer a source side gate a central gate and a drain side gate disposed on and separated from the 2DEG or 2DHG layer and a voltage source for applying a voltage independently to each of the gates to spatially modulate the electron or hole density in the 2DEG or 2DHG layer under each gate thereby providing a source side plasmonic path under the source side gate and a drain side plasmonic path under the drain side gate and a plasmonic mixer under the central gate when the central gate is biased to near depletion wherein a standing plasma wave from the source side plasmonic path couples with a standing plasma wave from the drain side plasmonic path interfere at the plasmonic mixer to provide a photoresponse when incident electromagnetic radiation is coupled to the 2DEG or 2DHG layer.

The incident electromagnetic radiation can have a frequency of between 10 GHz and 60 THz i.e. free space wavelength of between 30 mm and 5 m . The length of the source side and drain side plasmonic paths can each be less than 1 10 the free space wavelength of the incident electromagnetic radiation and can have equal plasmonic lengths. A sample can be placed in one of the balanced plasmonic paths to enable interferometric spectroscopy of the sample. An antenna and or a hyper hemispherical lens can couple the incident electromagnetic radiation to the 2DEG or 2DHG layer. Alternatively the incident electromagnetic radiation can be coupled into the 2DEG or 2DHG layer via on chip waveguides. When used as a homodyne mixer the photoresponse is a rectified DC voltage signal measured between the source and the drain terminals. The voltages to the source side and drain side gates can be varied to obtain an interoferogram from the rectified DC signal. The interferogram can be post processed to provide a frequency domain spectrum of the incident electromagnetic spectrum. Alternatively the two path plasmonic interferometer can be used as a heterodyne mixer by applying a local oscillator signal to the plasmonic mixer that has a frequency detuned from the incident electromagnetic radiation thereby providing an intermediate frequency difference signal.

The present invention is directed to a two dimensional 2D plasmonic interferometer with an integrated resonant homodyne mixing element based upon a HEMT with multiple gate terminals. Biasing a gate in a HEMT near its threshold voltage while illuminated by radiation near the 2D plasma frequency effectively produces a plasmonic homodyne mixing element and enables phase sensitive detection of plasma waves. When multiple plasmonic cavities are coupled to this gate induced plasmonic mixing element the device can provide a sub wavelength two path interferometer with an integrated on chip detector where the paths can be independently tuned. See W. F. Andress et al 12 2272 2012 and K. Y. M. Yeung et al. 102 021104 2013 . Unlike standard homodyne mixing techniques plasmonic homodyne mixing permits near field detection well above the conventional RC limited bandwidth of devices at their operational bias. See S. Rosenblatt et al. 87 153111 2005 .

To describe the underlying mechanism of the solid state plasmonic interferometer of the present invention it is useful to first draw an analogy to an optical Mach Zehnder interferometer. An optical Mach Zehnder interferometer can be used to determine the relative phase shift variations between two collimated beams derived by splitting light from a single source. An optical Mach Zehnder interferometer comprising optical Path D and optical Path S is diagrammed in . Beam splitters are labeled BS and BS and mirrors are labeled MD and MS. Each optical path has a region of length d where the permittivity and permeability of the electromagnetic medium is independently defined. If the phase velocity in these regions is given by 1 square root over then the phase difference of beams on these two paths is d . This phase difference results not from a difference in path lengths i.e. d 0 but instead from a difference in the phase velocities along sections of the two paths i.e. . When the permittivity permeability or both are tunable then so are the phase velocities of these regions and consequently the phase difference between the two paths. For example the Mach Zehnder interferometer can be used to measure phase shifts between the two split beams caused by a sample that modifies the permittivity and or permeability in one of the optical paths. Readout in this diagram can be accomplished using a mixer to produce a DC signal at the second beamsplitter BS where the recombined beams are 180 degrees out of phase.

In a typical HEMT design the drain D and source S contact are designed to provide conductive low resistance electrical contact between the fabricated metal electrodes and the 2DEG. This follows the accepted naming convention of D and S contacts used for field effect transistors. However D and S are more broadly applied in the present invention. D and S imply a preferential flow of electrical current through the 2DEG while in the present invention there is no applied electrical current required for operation. Additionally D and S can apply to non conductive contacts at the end of the 2DEG in the context of this invention.

The integrated detector is a plasmonic mixing element. This mixing element can comprise a region of 2DEG with reduced or fully depleted 2DEG. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 376 403 to Wanke et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. When no electrical current is passed through the 2DEG this detector functions as a plasmonic homodyne mixer. However integration of an extrinsic mixing element such as a Schottky diode with a semiconductor heterojunction device is also possible. See U.S. Pat. No. 8 274 058 to Wanke et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. The underlying requirement is that the near field of the plasma excitations couples with the integrated mixer. Device specific implementation can vary provided this requirement is satisfied.

A 2DEG can be formed at a heterojunction between two semiconductors having different band gaps. The heterojunction can comprise a wide bandgap semiconductor heavily doped with an electron donor such as n type AlGaAs or n type AlGaN and an undoped narrow bandgap semiconductor such as GaAs or GaN. For example the heterojunction can be fabricated using molecular beam epitaxy. A semiconductor heterojunction is preferably grown on a semi insulating and atomically flat substrate. The heterojunction thereby forms a quantum well in the conduction band of the undoped semiconductor. Electrons from the n type semiconductor drop into the quantum well and can move with high mobility without colliding with impurities in the undoped semiconductor. A thin layer comprising highly mobile conducting electrons with very high concentration the 2DEG is thereby created at the heterojunction. Other III V heterojunctions can also be used including but not limited to GaAs AlGaAs InGaAs InAlAs and GaN AlGaN.

Alternatively a quantum well formed in a narrow gap semiconductor placed between wide gap semiconductors with remote n type dopants can similarly provide a suitable 2DEG. Multiple quantum wells can also be employed to increase the total 2DEG density through summation of the densities in adjacent wells. Choice of the type of heterojunction or quantum well can impact 2DEG mobility and density as well as the depth of the well relative to the surface or the epitaxial growth. The depth of the embedded 2DEG layer ultimately determines the strength of plasmon screening due to fabricated metal terminals. Finally type II heterojunctions such as those formed between InAs GaSb can produce a 2DEG which will differ greatly in majority carrier effective mass.

A 2DEG can also be formed in atomically thin materials having high electron mobility such as graphene. Graphene is a one atom thick layer of sp bonded carbon arranged in a regular hexagonal pattern. As such graphene can be considered as an indefinitely large polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon in which electrons are free to move by virtue of the spbonding. In particular graphene has been found to have remarkably high electron mobility at room temperature due to the low defect scattering of intrinsic graphene.

Alternatively a two dimensional hole gas 2DHG having similar properties to the 2DEG but with positive carrier charge polarity can also be formed by chemical or electronic doping of graphene or in heterojunction based materials. See U.S. Pat. No. 9 105 791 issued Aug. 11 2015 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The incident radiation can have a frequency between about 10 GHz and 60 THz i.e. free space wavelength of between 30 mm and 5 m . All three gates G G and G can be driven by the incident electromagnetic radiation field. To achieve a two path interferometer gate G can be biased to depletion. Gates G and G then control independent source side and drain side paths for plasmonic standing waves to couple into the depleted region below G.

The source side and drain side plasmonic path lengths are each shorter than a plasmon coherence length. A transmission line model as described in U.S. Pat. No. 9 105 791 can be adapted to include plasmon damping by accounting for dissipation in the definitions of the transmission line characteristic impedance and dispersion. For calculating the plasmon Q factor and propagation lengths it is sufficient to define the dispersion law as square root over where R accounts for the damping of the plasma wave. This resistance includes not only the scattering rate found from the Drude conductivity of the 2DEG but also a radiative damping contribution. For high mobility 2DEGs 100 000 cm Vs this radiation resistance is a more significant damping mechanism than the intrinsic 2DEG resistance. See S. A. Mikhailov Phys. Rev. B 54 10335 1996 . The total resistance can be defined in terms of the mobility and radiative scattering rates as 

To determine the plasmon Q factor and propagation length from the dispersion law defined above it is convenient to rewrite the dispersion law as Then the Q factor can be defined as 

Tuning of the gate voltages G and G controls the 2DEG inductance and resistance L R 1 . Here defines the normalized 2DEG density under the jgate in terms of the threshold voltage V where n 0 and the applied gate voltages Vsuch that V V V. In respectively the plasmon Q factor and coherence length Lcalculated for a gated GaAs AlGaAs 2DEG with carrier density of about 4 10cmat 12 K are plotted as a function of frequency for several values of the normalized carrier density . The Q factor of the plasma wave is approximately 10 25 in the range of frequencies from 200 450 GHz shown with vertical dashed lines and increases modestly as the normalized 2DEG density is lowered. The coherence length however depends much more critically on both the normalized 2DEG density and frequency. In this frequency range the plasmon coherence length varies from L

The depleted region below G functions as a plasmonic mixer in which the standing plasma waves coupled from its left and right ports effectively interfere. The incident THz field coupled directly to G behaves as a local oscillator voltage Vwhile the plasma waves from below G and G act as signals Vand Vcoupled to the mixer. The resultant homodyne mixing mechanism down converts the THz fields to a DC signal Vthat can be read out through the drain D and source S contacts. Not only does this down conversion turn high frequency fields into a DC signal easily transmitted on standard coax but for example it can take place in a 10 micrometer long interferometer element that is 100 smaller than the mm wavelength of THz radiation in free space. With two balanced paths it is possible to perform interferometric spectroscopy on chip analogous to a Fourier transform infrared spectrometer. However rather than mechanically tuning the path length of a traditional optical interferometer the effective permittivity of the 2DEG interferometer paths can be changed by electrically tuning the gate voltages of G and G. Post processing after measuring the interferogram an FFT with other corrections can provide a frequency domain spectrum of incident radiation.

In is shown a schematic top view illustration of the plasmonic interferometer. An antenna optimized for a particular band can couple the incident electromagnetic radiation to the interferometer at the antenna vertex in a quasi optical configuration. The incident field is coupled to the source and drain terminals of the HEMT while the gate biases V V and Vmodulate the resonant 2D plasmonic modes and the detector response. In this scheme the THZ fields also couple capacitively to all terminals though the antenna is directly connected to S and D. See G. C. Dyer et al. 8363 83630T 2012 . Alternatively a broadband antenna with or without a hyper hemispherical lens can be used to improve the coupling efficiency. For example the broadband antenna can be a log periodic antenna with a physical diameter of order millimeters. For example the lens can comprise a material that is transparent to the incident radiation such as silicon. The lens can narrow the beam spot illuminating the active area of the antenna and improve impedance matching of the antenna to the medium of the incident electromagnetic field thereby enhancing detector response.

As an example of the invention a plasmonic interferometer with an integrated resonant homodyne mixing element based upon a GaAs AlGaAs HEMT with multiple gate terminals was fabricated. is a scanning electron micrograph of the two path plasmonic interferometer where gate G of a HEMT defines the mixing element and source side Path S and drain side Path D are tuned by G and G respectively. In this interferometer the gates are all approximately 2 m wide and separated by 2 m. The distance between the Ohmic contacts S and D is 14 m. show the same device but with G and G respectively defining the mixing region.

A resonant plasmonic photoresponse in the HEMT as shown in under THz illumination may arise from several mechanisms. Recent studies have revealed a bolometric THz response mechanism while a photovoltage may also result from THz excitation when the 2DEG is at or near depletion. See V. M. Muravev and I. V. Kukushkin 100 082102 2012 G. C. Dyer et al. 97 193507 2010 G. C. Dyer et al. 100 083506 2012 G. C. Dyer et al. 109 126803 2012 and G. C. Dyer et al. 7 925 2013 . The analysis below assumes the latter mechanism a resonant plasmonic homodyne mixing photoresponse.

The time averaged mixing signal under THz illumination can be described in terms of the in plane plasmonic voltages coupled to a region of 2DEG 

With G of a three gate GaAs AlGaAs HEMT tuned to deplete the 2DEG below it as illustrated in rectification takes place both at the left edge of G where the signal from Path D couples to the central mixing region as well as at the right edge of G where the signal from Path S couples to the mixing region. Thus the DC potential V arises due to the difference between the rectified voltages on the drain side of G and the source side of G. One of the underlying assumptions in this model is a loss of coherence between the two plasmonic signal channels when the mixing region of the 2DEG between them is biased near depletion. Modeling by Davoyan and Popov indicates that as n 0 the plasmon near field amplitude decays rapidly from the edges of this region into its center. See A. R. Davoyan V. V. Popov and S. A. Nikitov 108 127401 2012 and A. R. Davoyan and V. V. Popov 315 352 2014 . This isolates the plasma excitations at opposing edges from one another and is consistent with the experimental assumption that these decoupled plasmonic fields produce independent mixing signals.

While in G defines the mixing region of the device as shown in fact any of the gates Gj can induce a plasmonic mixing region. In alternative possibilities where G and G respectively induce the mixing region are illustrated. The three possible choices for plasmonic mixing region of this device are explored through a combination of transport and photoresponse measurements at 8 K in . Measurements of the device transport were performed using a lock in amplifier LIA to source 4.0 mV at 75.0 Hz to a 5.1 kOhm load resistor in series with the sample maintained at 8 K in a cryostat. The voltage drop across the load resistor was measured using the LIA to determine the device conductance as the sample gate biases were tuned. In the device conductance as the voltage applied to G of the three gate HEMT in is tuned is shown. Though this two point measurement includes contact resistances as well as series contributions from wire bonds several key features directly related to the HEMT channel are evident. There is a discontinuity in the conductance near V 0.95 V that indicates the presence of a parallel conduction channel in the device. In fact the GaAs AlGaAs heterostructure in this device had two quantum wells with a combined 2D electron density of 4.0 10 cmthat conducted in parallel. This discontinuity feature results from the depletion of the quantum well nearest to the gate. The full depletion of both quantum wells below G is evident around V 2.60 V. In this regime transport in the region immediately below G dominates the system and contact resistances are negligible in comparison.

The DC measurement of the device conductance is connected with the expected THz photoresponse through Eq. 1. The factor

A broadband THz antenna and a Si lens was used to improve the coupling efficiency. See G. C. Dyer et al. 8363 83630T 2012 . The incident THz radiation was linearly polarized orthogonal to the HEMT channel between S and D contacts in order to match the co polarization axis of the antenna. While this polarization weakly excites plasmons along the HEMT channel in the absence of an antenna for the chosen antenna layout this polarization provides optimal plasmonic coupling to the incident THz field.

A LIA modulated a continuous wave Schottky diode multiplier millimeter wave source Virginia Diodes Inc. at 196.7 Hz and also measured the photovoltage generated between the source and drain terminals of the device under 0.270 THz illumination. Interestingly circuit loading effects due to the HEMT RC time constant under typical bias conditions can become significant around several kHz modulation and reduce the measured photoresponse. See M. Sakowicz et al. 110 054512 2011 . Thus the conventional circuit RC limited bandwidth is on the order of kHz yet underdamped plasma excitations nonetheless provide coupling of THz fields to a high resistance mixing region.

Through comparison of it is evident that the measured photovoltage correlates strongly with the calculated transport curve 

In the transport and responsivity characteristics at 8 K of the HEMT are compared as one of the three gates is tuned independently while the other two are fixed at ground potential. The transport curves corresponding to Eq. 1 that are plotted in are all nearly identical consistent with the HEMT channel being homogeneous across the device and all three gates sharing an identical 2 m width. Thus the differences in the 0.270 THz responsivity shown in arise due to asymmetry in the device induced via the applied gate bias. The responsivity with either gate G or gate G respectively tuned is nearly identical in amplitude but opposite in polarity. Taking G to define the mixing region as illustrated in there are two plasmonic paths feeding into this mixing region a path formed between S and G and a path formed between D and G. Because these paths are different lengths 2 m vs. 10 m the phase and amplitude of monochromatic plasma waves impinging on the mixing region below G from opposing sides will in general be non identical. This produces a net photoresponse because V t V t 0. The scenario is similar when G defines the mixing region as shown in but now the short and long plasmonic paths have exchanged relative positions in comparison to the first example. Consistent with the measured data this inverts the signal polarity but leaves its amplitude largely unaffected.

A third possibility pictured in utilizes gate G to define the mixing region. In this case the device is essentially symmetric about gate G though fabrication imperfections or misalignment of the incident radiation can introduce asymmetries. Here the photoresponse should be relatively weaker since the phase and amplitude of monochromatic plasma waves impinging on the mixing region from both paths will be nearly identical such that V t V t 0. In the photoresponse with G tuned has a smaller amplitude though its measureable amplitude indicates some asymmetry in the system under THz irradiation. Nonetheless this is the most near to balanced configuration and also offers independent tunability of both Path D and Path S. Using this configuration the operation of a monolithically integrated balanced two path plasmonic interferometer is described below.

With G biased to deplete the 2DEG below it the plasmonic paths between S and G Path S and D and G Path D can be described in terms of tunable electrical lengths. Each of these paths is 6 m long with 2 m regions below gates G and G that can be voltage tuned. It is these sections below gates G and G that are of greatest interest and it is useful to first relate applied gate voltages to 2DEG densities. Assuming a parallel plate capacitance between each gate and the 2DEG 

The interferometric plasmonic signal with Path S and Path D independently controlled is illustrated in . These experimental measurements were performed at 8 K for excitation frequencies of 0.270 and 0.360 THz respectively with V 2.55 V. Because the gate voltage the 2DEG density the plasmon propagation constant and the electrical length are all directly related by Eqs. 2 4 any of these may effectively parameterize the tuning of Paths S and D. In the electrical lengths corresponding to Path S and Path D are used in plotting the plasmonic interferogram. The diagonal lines from the lower left to upper right corners of indicate where 0. This can be viewed as a 180 degree phase shift between the two identical paths when otherwise excited identically. For the balanced two path interferometer this diagonal marks where the signal should vanish as well as the boundary about which the signal should have anti mirror symmetry. This is equivalent to stating that the signal S obeys the relation S S . Though the experimental results plotted in do not precisely follow this rule as would be the case in ideal balancing of the two paths the qualitative picture nonetheless is indicate of anti mirror symmetry. The signal tends to weaken then change polarity along 0 and for each positive signal polarity resonance at a coordinate there tends to be a companion resonance at with negative polarity.

The quantity Re V V calculated using a plasmonic transmission line model as shown in is plotted in for excitation frequencies of 0.270 and 0.360 THz using the plasmonic transmission line model. Here it is assumed the antenna functions as a lumped element voltage source with an internal impedance found from its radiation resistance. See G. C. Dyer et al. 109 126803 2012 . Additionally because the equivalent circuit sources driving the LO Path S and Path D are in phase the real parts of the calculated plasmonic transmission line voltages can be calculated to emulate the anticipated plasmonic mixing response. There is very good agreement between experimental and model interferograms in using this approach with several resonances matched in polarity observable along both the vertical and horizontal axes. However the model interferogram in does not match the experimental interferogram in as well. Although the lower order resonances seen at the shortest electrical lengths have the same polarity in the model calculations predict additional higher order resonances that are not observed experimentally. Part of the discrepancy may arise from higher experimental plasmonic damping rates than the damping rate corresponding to an electron mobility of 100 000 cm V s used in the model calculations. As the electrical length is increased by gate tuning the losses increase the resonances broaden and the signal amplitude decreases. This is a qualitative feature of all plots in and it is possible that the higher order modes in cannot be resolved.

To further demonstrate the invention a second exemplary device design shown in was considered where the two plasmonic paths are independently tunable four period plasmonic crystals. See G. C. Dyer et al. 7 925 2013 . Here G is a single 2 m gate and G and G tune Path S and Path D respectively using four identically tuned 2 m wide gate stripes separated by 2 m each. The distance between the Ohmic contacts S and D is 34 m. In this device the gate tuning of plasma wave propagation cannot be interpreted as a simple change of electrical length. Because plasmons are Bragg scattered in this short periodic lattice a crystal quasi momentum defined by the Bloch wavevector better describes plasma wave dispersion than the propagation constant of a plasmon below G or G. The experimentally measured plasmonic interferogram in the left frame of with 0.345 THz excitation and G biased to V 2.80 V at 8 K is therefore plotted in terms of gate voltages Vand V. This plasmonic interferometer can be understood as an in situ plasmonic spectrometer for a more complicated plasmonic heterostructure than the device shown in . As before plasmonic homodyne mixing takes place at the left and right edges of G but multi period structures between S and G and D and G control the signals coupled to this mixing region. Despite the additional complexity of Paths S and D a striking anti mirror symmetry about V Vwhere S V V S V V is observed indicating a well balanced two path plasmonic system.

A model interferogram of the calculated quantity Re V V is plotted in the right frame of for an excitation frequency of 0.345 THz using a plasmonic transmission line model to describe the four period plasmonic crystals in Path S and Path D. Here a 2DEG density of 4.5 10 cm about 10 larger than the 2DEG density determined from Hall measurements and an electron mobility of 600 000 cm V s consistent with the mobility found from Hall measurements were used in the model calculation. Although the overall agreement with experiment is largely qualitative in nature the expected anti mirror symmetry about V Vwhere S V V S V V is present. The most significant discrepancies between the model and experiment in likely arise as a result of approximating the THz excitation as a lumped source in the transmission line model rather than a more realistic distributed excitation. While the transmission line approach predicts the resonant modes of the system with adequate fidelity the exact plasmonic field amplitudes of Path S and D at the edges adjacent to the mixer will depend non trivially upon the THz excitation of each plasmonic crystal. The THz coupling impacts not only the amplitudes of resonances but also linewidths since radiative damping is a significant broadening mechanism. Moreover radiative damping rates will generally not be identical for all modes in the system. A lumped excitation is a reasonable approximation for plasmonic cavities with only several plasmonic elements but limits the validity of the transmission line approach for modeling the plasmonic near fields of more complicated devices.

Several additional features in prompt further consideration. First in comparison to many additional modes are observed with only a slight increase in excitation frequency. This is understood in part by comparing the 6 m plasmonic path lengths in the device shown in to the 18 m path lengths in device shown in . The fundamental mode of the 18 m path occurs at a lower frequency than that of the 6 m path and therefore a relatively denser set of higher order modes is anticipated for a given excitation frequency. Alternately the coupling of four gated regions of the 2DEG in the device shown in lifts a four fold degeneracy and therefore approximately four modes are expected for every one observed in the device of . Additionally the highest intensity signal is observed with significant tuning of gate voltage. This would be analogous to observing the largest signal in at any electrical length but the smallest measured. One possibility consistent with a recent study of localized modes in terahertz plasmonic crystals is that specific modes in the spectrum couple less well to the mixing region due to their confinement adjacent to an Ohmic contact either source S or drain D. See G. C. Dyer et al. 7 925 2013 . Although the distributed nature of the THz excitation precludes validation of this hypothesis using a lumped source to model the plasmonic near field amplitude the non monotonic behavior of signal intensities is suggestive of the localization of plasmon modes in Path S and Path D.

As described above on chip plasmonic interferometry can be integrated with a widely used plasmonic detection technique. Although the exemplary devices used an antenna to provide the distributed excitation of the signal channels and the LO of the plasmonic mixer waveguide coupled structures can also be used if the LO and signal channels are suitably isolated as illustrated in . See W. F. Andress et al. 12 2272 2012 and K. Y. M. Yeung et al. 102 021104 2013 which are incorporated herein by reference. The phase relationship between the LO and signal channels is determined by the coupling of the THz excitation to HEMT terminals. Isolation of these channels allows for control of their relative phase and potentially a quadrature measurement to extract both the amplitude and phase of an incident THz signal. This possibility arises because the plasmonic mixer is a field rather than power detector. While intensity interferograms are often measured by bringing two paths coincident upon a power detector here field phase information is partially preserved by independently generating a DC signal from each path and reading out to a single differential channel. Prior interferometric sensors have focused on optical techniques. As with the optical Mach Zehnder interferometer the sensitivity of 2D plasma excitations to their environment can provide a sensor wherein a phase shift is sensitive to a sample in one of the plasmonic paths. Therefore the plasmonic interferometer of the present invention enables an electro optical approach to near field plasmonic sensing. Further although the above described examples based on GaAs AlGaAs heterostructures require both cryogenic cooling and a vacuum environment other plasmonic materials such as graphene have neither as a requirement. The electromagnetic screening of 2D plasma waves by a metal terminal is a limiting case of environment modifying plasmon dispersion. However more subtle effects particularly in graphene can arise due to plasmon phonon coupling with an adjacent material or the coupling of plasmons with an adsorbed polymer. See Z. Fei et al. 11 4701 2011 H. Yan et al. 7 394 2013 and Y. Li et al. 2014 . The plasmonic interferometer of the present invention enables an electro optical approach to near field plasmonic sensing.

Integration of interferometric elements into a voltage tunable microelectronic plasmonic device provides potential advantages over existing spectroscopic techniques particularly in the far infrared. Though the substantial reduction in optical path length is beneficial the most significant advantage is provided by the broad voltage tunability. The invention described above utilized an intrinsic mixing mechanism to exploit the plasmonic near field enhancement. However as illustrated in the integration of a discrete mixing component with plasmonic elements is also viable. See U.S. Pat. No. 8 274 058 to Wanke et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. Provided the integrated mixer directly couples to the near field of plasma excitations conventional diode based detection elements can be used. The specific choice of technology depends upon the compatibility of material systems and process technologies. This enables for example frequency agile heterodyne mixers that do not rely on front end optics for spectrally selective signal input.

Heterodyning consists of mixing a received RF signal with a LO signal. The LO signal has a frequency that is detuned from the frequency of the received RF signal. The mixer produces an output signal having an intermediate frequency IF that is equal to the difference between the frequencies of the LO and RF signals. The IF signal is tunable through the LO frequency and can be post amplified and processed using conventional microwave techniques. Further the LO can have a fixed output power that is generally much greater than the power of the received RF signal thereby producing an IF output power that is proportional to the product of the powers of the LO and received RF signals.

The waveguide coupled structure shown in enables heterodyne mixing whereby two different LO and RF frequencies can generate an intermediate frequency. In this example the incident electromagnetic radiation RFand RFis applied to the source S and drain D sides of the plasmonic interferometer via opposing source side and drain side waveguides fabricated on the chip. Voltages can be applies to gates G and G to provide source side and drain side plasmonic paths in the 2DEG of the interferometer. The central gate G can be biased to near depletion to provide a plasmonic mixer in the 2DEG region under the central gate. An LO signal having a frequency that is detuned from the frequency of the RFand RFsignals can be applied to the plasmonic mixer via a central waveguide. The IF signal can be removed through the central waveguide and a directional coupler can be used to route the IF signal to a post processor for example a spectrum analyzer.

The present invention has been described as a two path plasmonic interferometer with integrated detector. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

