---

title: Control of video camera with privacy feedback to capture images of a scene
abstract: Techniques and systems are provided for controlling a network video camera with physical privacy feedback to capture one or more images of a scene. For example, computing device, a method, and a computer-program product may be provided. The computing device may include one or more lenses and one or more blocking mechanisms, wherein the one or more blocking mechanisms are configured to selectively block the one or more lenses from capturing video images, and wherein the one or more blocking mechanisms include a physical body that provides visible feedback that the one or more lenses are blocked. The computing device, method, and computer-program product may include detecting movement of a blocking mechanism from a first position in which a lens is exposed to a second position in which the lens is blocked, and capturing one or more images of a scene, wherein the one or more images of the scene are captured when the movement of the blocking mechanism is detected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09179058&OS=09179058&RS=09179058
owner: BELKIN INTERNATIONAL, INC.
number: 09179058
owner_city: Playa Vista
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141107
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 487 018 filed Sep. 15 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to providing physical feedback of video camera privacy. Specifically various techniques and systems are provided for controlling a network video camera to capture images of a scene.

Network video cameras may be present within a network. For example a local area network may include one or more connected network video cameras that capture video of the physical environment in which the network exists. Privacy concerns may exist when a user expects that a video camera is not recording but cannot be certain. For example a user may not know whether a camera is in fact recording if a lens of the camera is exposed. As a result the use of network video cameras may be limited due to the lack of certainty of privacy when recording is not desired.

Techniques and systems are described for controlling a network video camera or capture device to provide physical feedback of privacy. The network video camera may include a blocking mechanism that can be controlled to selectively block a lens of the video camera from capturing video images. The blocking mechanism may be a visible object that provides visible and physical feedback that the lens is clearly blocked from capturing video images. Various events may be detected that cause the blocking mechanism of the network video camera to block the lens activate the blocking mechanism or to unblock the lens deactivate the blocking mechanism . Various detected events may also cause the network video camera to record or to stop recording concurrently with deactivation or activation of the blocking mechanism or independently of the blocking mechanism. In some embodiments events may require user input or interaction with the network video camera before the blocking mechanism is activated or deactivated or before the network video camera records or stops recording. In some embodiments events may not require any user input or interaction in which case the blocking mechanism may be automatically activated or deactivated and or the network video camera may record or not record in response to detection of an event. In some embodiments more than one blocking mechanism may be used. For example in the event a network video camera includes multiple lenses a separate blocking mechanism may be used to block each lens. In some embodiments a single blocking mechanism may be used to block more than one lens of a network video camera.

According to at least one example a computing device may be provided that includes one or more lenses and one or more blocking mechanisms wherein the one or more blocking mechanisms are configured to selectively block the one or more lenses from capturing video images and wherein the one or more blocking mechanisms include a physical body that provides visible feedback that the one or more lenses are blocked. The computing device further includes one or more data processors and a non transitory machine readable storage medium containing instructions which when executed on the one or more data processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations including detecting movement of a blocking mechanism from a first position in which a lens is exposed to a second position in which the lens is blocked and capturing one or more images of a scene wherein the one or more images of the scene are captured when the movement of the blocking mechanism is detected.

In some embodiments a computer implemented method may be provided that includes detecting using a computing device movement of a blocking mechanism of a network video capture device from a first position in which a lens is exposed to a second position in which the lens is blocked wherein one or more blocking mechanisms of the network video capture device are configured to selectively block one or more lenses from capturing video images and wherein the one or more blocking mechanisms include a physical body that provides visible feedback that the one or more lenses are blocked. The method further includes capturing one or more images of a scene wherein the one or more images of the scene are captured when the movement of the blocking mechanism is detected.

In some embodiments a computer program product tangibly embodied in a non transitory machine readable storage medium of a computing device may be provided. The computer program product may include instructions configured to cause one or more data processors to detect movement of a blocking mechanism of a network video capture device from a first position in which a lens is exposed to a second position in which the lens is blocked wherein one or more blocking mechanisms of the network video capture device are configured to selectively block one or more lenses from capturing video images and wherein the one or more blocking mechanisms include a physical body that provides visible feedback that the one or more lenses are blocked and capture one or more images of a scene wherein the one or more images of the scene are captured when the movement of the blocking mechanism is detected.

In some embodiments the method computing device and computer program product described above may further include detecting when the network video capture device is caused to stop recording.

In some embodiments the method computing device and computer program product described above may further include causing a transmitter to transmit an alert to a user. For example the computing device may include a transmitter.

In some embodiments the method computing device and computer program product described above may further include determining whether the movement of the blocking mechanism is performed by an unauthorized user and causing a transmitter to transmit an alert to a user wherein the alert is transmitted to the user when movement of the blocking is performed by the unauthorized user.

In some embodiments capturing one or more images of the scene includes capturing a single image of the scene. In some embodiments capturing one or more images of the scene includes capturing a video of the scene. In some embodiments the video of the scene includes a period of time prior to the movement of the blocking mechanism.

In some embodiments the method computing device and computer program product described above may further include storing a timestamp wherein the timestamp records a time of day in which the movement of the blocking mechanism is detected.

This summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used in isolation to determine the scope of the claimed subject matter. The subject matter should be understood by reference to appropriate portions of the entire specification of this patent any or all drawings and each claim.

The foregoing together with other features and embodiments will become more apparent upon referring to the following specification claims and accompanying drawings.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. However it will be apparent that various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. The figures and description are not intended to be restrictive.

The ensuing description provides exemplary embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the disclosure. Rather the ensuing description of the exemplary embodiments will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing an exemplary embodiment. It should be understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

Specific details are given in the following description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits systems networks processes and other components may be shown as components in block diagram form in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that individual embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in a figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination can correspond to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

The term machine readable storage medium or computer readable storage medium includes but is not limited to portable or non portable storage devices optical storage devices and various other mediums capable of storing containing or carrying instruction s and or data. A machine readable storage medium or computer readable storage medium may include a non transitory medium in which data can be stored and that does not include carrier waves and or transitory electronic signals propagating wirelessly or over wired connections. Examples of a non transitory medium may include but are not limited to a magnetic disk or tape optical storage media such as compact disk CD or digital versatile disk DVD flash memory memory or memory devices. A computer program product may include code and or machine executable instructions that may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks e.g. a computer program product may be stored in a machine readable medium. A processor s may perform the necessary tasks.

Systems depicted in some of the figures may be provided in various configurations. In some embodiments the systems may be configured as a distributed system where one or more components of the system are distributed across one or more networks in a cloud computing system.

A network may be set up to provide an access device user with access to various devices connected to the network. For example a network may include one or more network devices. One example of a network device may include a network video camera that is connected to the network. A network video camera may capture video images of certain portions of a physical environment or venue in which the network exists. Another example of a network device includes a device that provide a user with the ability to remotely configure or control the network device itself or to remotely configure or control one or more electronic devices e.g. appliances connected to the network devices. The electronic devices may be located within an environment or a venue that can support the network. An environment or a venue can include for example a home an office a business an automobile a park an industrial or commercial plant or the like. A network may include one or more gateways that allow client devices e.g. network devices access devices or the like to access the network by providing wired connections and or wireless connections using radio frequency channels in one or more frequency bands. The one or more gateways may also provide the client devices with access to one or more external networks such as a cloud network the Internet and or other wide area networks.

A local area network of a venue can include multiple network devices that provide various functionalities. Network devices may be accessed and controlled using an access device and or one or more network gateways. One or more gateways in the local area network may be designated as a primary gateway that provides the local area network with access to an external network. In the event the venue includes a structure or building the local area network can extend outside of the venue and may include network devices located outside of the venue. For instance the local area network can include network devices such as one or more network video cameras exterior motion sensors exterior lighting e.g. porch lights walkway lights security lights or the like garage door openers sprinkler systems or other network devices that are exterior to the venue. A user may be able to access the network devices while located within the local area network and also while located remotely from the local area network. For example a user may access the network devices using an access device within the local area network or remotely from the local area network.

A network device within the local area network may pair with or connect to a gateway and may obtain credentials from the gateway. For example when the network device is powered on a list of gateways that are detected by the network device may be displayed on a user s access device e.g. via an application program or the like installed on and executed by the access device . In some embodiments only a single gateway is included in the local area network e.g. any other displayed gateways may be part of other local area networks . In such embodiments only the single gateway may be displayed e.g. when only the single gateway is detected by the network device . In some embodiments multiple gateways may be located in the local area network e.g. a router a range extending device or the like and may be displayed. A user may select a gateway as the gateway with which the network device is to pair and may enter login information for accessing the gateway. The login information may be the same information that was originally set up for accessing the gateway e.g. a network user name and password a network security key or any other appropriate login information . The access device may send the login information to the network device and the network device may use the login information to pair with the gateway. The network device may then obtain the credentials from the gateway. The credentials may include a service set identification SSID of the local area network a media access control MAC address of the gateway and or the like. The network device may transmit the credentials to a server of a wide area network such as a cloud network server. In some embodiments the network device may also send to the server information relating to the network device e.g. MAC address serial number or the like and or information relating to the access device e.g. MAC address serial number application unique identifier or the like .

The server may register the gateway as a logical network and may assign the first logical network a network identifier ID . The server may further generate a set of security keys which may include one or more security keys. For example the server may generate a unique key for the network device and a separate unique key for the access device. The server may associate the network device and the access device with the logical network by storing the network ID and the set of security keys in a record or profile. The server may then transmit the network ID and the set of security keys to the network device. The network device may store the network ID and its unique security key. The network device may also send the network ID and the access device s unique security key to the access device. In some embodiments the server may transmit the network ID and the access device s security key directly to the access device. The network device and the access device may then communicate with the cloud server using the network ID and the unique key generated for each device. Each network device and access device may also be assigned a unique identifier e.g. a universally unique identifier UUID a unique device identifier UDID globally unique identifier GUID or the like by the cloud server that is separate from the network ID and the unique security key of each device. Accordingly the access device may perform accountless authentication to allow the user to remotely access the network device via the cloud network without logging in each time access is requested. Further details relating to an accountless authentication process are described below. Also the network device can communicate with the server regarding the logical network.

As illustrated in the local area network includes network device network device and network device . In some embodiments any of the network devices may include an Internet of Things IoT device. As used herein an IoT device is a device that includes sensing and or control functionality as well as a WiFi transceiver radio or interface a Bluetooth transceiver radio or interface a Zigbee transceiver radio or interface an Ultra Wideband UWB transceiver radio or interface a WiFi Direct transceiver radio or interface a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE transceiver radio or interface and or any other wireless network transceiver radio or interface that allows the IoT device to communicate with a wide area network and with one or more other devices. In some embodiments an IoT device does not include a cellular network transceiver radio or interface and thus may not be configured to directly communicate with a cellular network. In some embodiments an IoT device may include a cellular transceiver radio and may be configured to communicate with a cellular network using the cellular network transceiver radio. In some examples one or more of the network devices as IoT devices or other devices may include a network video camera that can capture video images of certain portions of the physical environment or venue. In some examples one or more of the network devices as IoT devices or other devices may include an automation network device that allow a user to access control and or configure various appliances devices or tools located within an environment or venue e.g. a television radio light fan humidifier sensor microwave iron a tool a manufacturing device a printer a computer and or the like or outside of the venue e.g. exterior motion sensors exterior lighting garage door openers sprinkler systems or the like . For example network device may include a home automation switch that may be coupled with a home appliance. In some embodiments network devices such as an automation network device or network video camera may be used in other environments or venues such as a business a school an establishment a park an industrial or commercial plant or any place that can support the local area network to enable communication with network devices. A network device can allow a user to access control and or configure devices such as office related devices e.g. copy machine printer fax machine or the like audio and or video related devices e.g. a receiver a speaker a projector a DVD player a television or the like media playback devices e.g. a compact disc player a CD player or the like computing devices e.g. a home computer a laptop computer a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a computing device a wearable device or the like lighting devices e.g. a lamp recessed lighting or the like devices associated with a security system devices associated with an alarm system devices that can be operated in an automobile e.g. radio devices navigation devices and or the like.

A user may communicate with the network devices using an access device . The access device may include any human to machine interface with network connection capability that allows access to a network. For example the access device may include a stand alone interface e.g. a cellular telephone a smartphone a home computer a laptop computer a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a computing device a wearable device such as a smart watch a wall panel a keypad or the like an interface that is built into an appliance or other device e.g. a television a refrigerator a security system a game console a browser or the like a speech or gesture interface e.g. a Kinect sensor a Wiimote or the like an IoT device interface e.g. an Internet enabled appliance such as a wall switch a control interface or other suitable interface or the like. In some embodiments the access device may include a cellular or other broadband network transceiver radio or interface and may be configured to communicate with a cellular or other broadband network using the cellular or broadband network transceiver radio. In some embodiments the access device may not include a cellular network transceiver radio or interface. While only a single access device is shown in one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that multiple access devices may communicate with the network devices . The user may interact with the network devices or using an application a web browser a proprietary program or any other program executed and operated by the access device . In some embodiments the access device may communicate directly with the network devices e.g. communication signal . For example the access device may communicate directly with network device using Zigbee signals Bluetooth signals WiFi signals infrared IR signals UWB signals WiFi Direct signals BLE signals sound frequency signals or the like. In some embodiments the access device may communicate with the network devices via the gateways e.g. communication signal and or the cloud network e.g. communication signal .

The local area network may include a wireless network a wired network or a combination of a wired and wireless network. A wireless network may include any wireless interface or combination of wireless interfaces e.g. Zigbee Bluetooth WiFi IR UWB WiFi Direct BLE cellular Long Term Evolution LTE WiMax or the like . A wired network may include any wired interface e.g. fiber ethernet powerline ethernet ethernet over coaxial cable digital signal line DSL or the like . The wired and or wireless networks may be implemented using various routers access points bridges gateways or the like to connect devices in the local area network . For example the local area network may include gateway and gateway . Gateway or can provide communication capabilities to network devices and or access device via radio signals in order to provide communication location and or other services to the devices. While two gateways and are shown in one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any number of gateways may be present within the local area network .

The network access provided by gateway and gateway may be of any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols. For example gateways may provide wireless communication capabilities for the local area network using particular communications protocols such as WiFi e.g. IEEE 802.11 family standards or other wireless communication technologies or any combination thereof . Using the communications protocol s the gateways may provide radio frequencies on which wireless enabled devices in the local area network can communicate. A gateway may also be referred to as a base station an access point Node B Evolved Node B eNodeB access point base station a Femtocell home base station home Node B home eNodeB or the like.

The gateways may include a router a modem a range extending device and or any other device that provides network access among one or more computing devices and or external networks. For example gateway may include a router or access point and gateway may include a range extending device. Examples of range extending devices may include a wireless range extender a wireless repeater or the like.

A router gateway may include access point and router functionality and may further include an Ethernet switch and or a modem. For example a router gateway may receive and forward data packets among different networks. When a data packet is received the router gateway may read identification information e.g. a media access control MAC address in the packet to determine the intended destination for the packet. The router gateway may then access information in a routing table or routing policy and may direct the packet to the next network or device in the transmission path of the packet. The data packet may be forwarded from one gateway to another through the computer networks until the packet is received at the intended destination.

A range extending gateway may be used to improve signal range and strength within a local area network. The range extending gateway may receive an existing signal from a router gateway or other gateway and may rebroadcast the signal to create an additional logical network. For example a range extending gateway may extend the network coverage of the router gateway when two or more devices on the local area network need to be connected with one another but the distance between one of the devices and the router gateway is too far for a connection to be established using the resources from the router gateway. As a result devices outside of the coverage area of the router gateway may be able to connect through the repeated network provided by the range extending gateway. The router gateway and range extending gateway may exchange information about destination addresses using a dynamic routing protocol.

The network devices and access device can transmit and receive signals using one or more channels of various frequency bands provided by the gateways and or . One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any available frequency band including those that are currently in use or that may become available at a future date may be used to transmit and receive communications according to embodiments described herein. In some examples the network devices the access device and the gateways may exchange communications using channels of different WiFi frequency bands. For example different channels available on a 2.4 gigahertz GHz WiFi frequency band that spans from 2.412 GHz to 2.484 GHz may be used. As another example different channels available on a 5 GHz WiFi frequency band that spans from 4.915 GHz to 5.825 GHz may be used. Other examples of frequency bands that may be used include a 3.6 GHz frequency band e.g. from 3.655 GHz to 3.695 GHz a 4.9 GHz frequency band e.g. from 4.940 GHz to 4.990 GHz a 5.9 GHz frequency band e.g. from 5.850 GHz to 5.925 GHz or the like. Yet other examples of frequency bands that may be used include tremendously low frequency bands e.g. less than 3 Hz extremely low frequency bands e.g. 3 Hz 30 Hz super low frequency bands e.g. 30 Hz 300 Hz ultra low frequency bands e.g. 300 Hz 3000 Hz very low frequency bands e.g. 3 KHz 30 KHz low frequency bands e.g. 30 KHz 300 KHz medium frequency bands e.g. 300 KHz 3000 KHz high frequency bands e.g. 3 MHz 30 MHz very high frequency bands e.g. 30 MHz 300 MHz ultra high frequency bands e.g. 300 MHz 3000 MHz super high frequency bands e.g. 3 GHz 30 GHz including WiFi bands extremely high frequency bands e.g. 30 GHz 300 GHz or terahertz or tremendously high frequency bands e.g. 300 GHz 3000 GHz .

Some or all of the channels may be available for use in a network. For example channels 1 11 of the 2.4 GHz frequency may be available for use in a local area network. As another example channels 36 40 44 48 52 56 60 64 100 104 108 112 116 132 136 140 149 153 157 161 and 161 of the 5 GHz frequency band may be available for use in a local area network. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any combination of the channels available on any of the frequency bands may be available for use in a network. The channels that are available for use may be regulated by the country in which the network is located.

The gateways and may also provide the access device and the network devices with access to one or more external networks such as the cloud network the Internet and or other wide area networks. In some embodiments the network devices may connect directly to the cloud network for example using broadband network access such as a cellular network. The cloud network may include one or more cloud infrastructure systems that provide cloud services. A cloud infrastructure system may be operated by a service provider. In certain embodiments services provided by the cloud network may include a host of services that are made available to users of the cloud infrastructure system on demand such as registration and access control of network devices . Services provided by the cloud infrastructure system can dynamically scale to meet the needs of its users. The cloud network may comprise one or more computers servers and or systems. In some embodiments the computers servers and or systems that make up the cloud network are different from the user s own on premises computers servers and or systems. For example the cloud network may host an application and a user may via a communication network such as the Internet on demand order and use the application.

In some embodiments the cloud network may host a Network Address Translation NAT Traversal application in order to establish a secure connection between a service provider of the cloud network and one or more of the network devices . A separate secure Transmission Control Protocol TCP connection may be established by each network device for communicating between each network device and the cloud network . The gateway may provide NAT services for mapping ports and private IP addresses of network devices and access device to public IP addresses. The gateway may provide the public IP addresses to the cloud network . In some embodiments each secure connection may be kept open for an indefinite period of time so that the cloud network can initiate communications with each respective network device or at any time. Various protocols may be used to establish a secure indefinite connection between each network device and the cloud network . Protocols may include Session Traversal Utilities for NAT STUN Traversal Using Relay NAT TURN Interactive Connectivity Establishment ICE a combination thereof or any other appropriate NAT traversal protocol.

In some cases communications between the cloud network and the network devices and or the access device may be supported using other types of communication protocols such as a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP protocol a Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS protocol or the like. In some embodiments communications initiated by the cloud network may be conducted over the TCP connection and communications initiated by a network device may be conducted over a HTTP or HTTPS connection. In certain embodiments the cloud network may include a suite of applications middleware and database service offerings that are delivered to a customer in a self service subscription based elastically scalable reliable highly available and secure manner.

Upon being powered on or reset network devices may be registered with an external network e.g. cloud network and associated with a logical network within the local area network . Details relating to registration of network devices are described below with respect to .

As previously noted any of the network devices or may include a network video camera connected to the network . The network video camera may be configured to capture video images of the physical environment or venue in which the network exists. Users may have privacy concerns when one or more network video cameras are installed in a venue. For example a user may occasionally turn off a network video camera so that the camera does not record video images. The network video camera may include a light or other indicator that is configured to indicate when recording is or is not in progress but the lens may still be exposed. When the lens of the camera is exposed the user or other people in the venue may not be certain that the video camera is not recording. Privacy concerns become even more heightened when network video cameras are installed in a home. As a result of these privacy issues widespread use of network video cameras may be limited due to users choosing to forego installation of network video cameras in various venues. Accordingly techniques and systems are described herein for controlling a network video camera that has physical and visible privacy feedback.

The network video camera may be in communication with the gateway to access other devices or networks. For example the gateway and the network video camera may communicate using signal . The gateway may provide the network video camera with access to the external network which may include the Internet a public or private cloud network or another wide area network. In some embodiments the network video camera may include or be in communication with a local storage device not shown that can store video data. For example the network video camera may be built with an internal local storage device that can store the video data. In another example the network video camera may store video data on a storage device that is within the network but that is not part of the network video camera . The network video camera may transmit the video data to the storage device within the network . In some embodiments the network video camera may also transmit video images to the external network via the gateway or using a broadband network connection in embodiments in which the camera has a broadband transceiver radio. For example the network may include a proprietary cloud service that allows a user of the network video camera to store a certain amount of video data. The user may be subscribed or registered with the proprietary cloud service. The user may pay a service fee to an operator of the cloud service for storing the user s video data. In some embodiments the video data may be transmitted to the external network as video images are captured. In some embodiments the video data may be transmitted to the network once the local storage reaches a storage limit e.g. 500 MB 750 MB 1 GB 2 GB 3 GB 5 GB or any other storage limit . In some examples the network video camera may transmit video data e.g. as images are captured once a storage limit is reached or the like to a local storage device that is not part of the camera but that is within the network and the video data may then be transmitted to the external network . In some embodiments a user may be required to authorize transfer of video data from the network video camera to the network before the video data is transmitted to the network . For example a prompt may be displayed to the user before the video data is transmitted to the network . The prompt may be displayed on a display not shown of the network video camera on a display not shown of the network device and or on a display of the access device . The prompt may include a button or other selection that the user is required to affirm before the video data is transmitted.

The network video camera may exchange communications with the network device e.g. via signal and the access device e.g. via signal . The access device and the network device may also be in communication with one another e.g. via signal . A user may access control and or configure the network device and the network video camera using the access device . The user may interact with the network device and the network video camera using an application a web browser a proprietary program or any other program executed and operated by the access device . The network video camera the network device and the access device may exchange communications directly using Zigbee signals Bluetooth signals WiFi signals infrared IR signals UWB signals WiFi Direct signals BLE signals sound frequency signals or any other available communication protocol that allows direct communication between devices. The network video camera the network device and the access device may also exchange communications through the gateway and or through the external network . For example the network device may transmit signal to gateway with a message for the network video camera and the gateway may route the message to the network video camera using signal . The network may be accessed using the external network when a user of the access device is located remotely from the network . For example a signal may be transmitted from the access device to the network from the network to the gateway and then from the gateway to the network device the network video camera or to another device on the network . In some embodiments the external network may be used to access network even when a user is located locally to the network . For example the user may use a cellular or other broadband network to access devices on the network .

The network video camera includes any appropriate network video camera that can capture video images and exchange communication signals over a wired or wireless network with other devices connected with the network. In some embodiments the network video camera may be an IoT device that is able to communicate with other client devices e.g. network device and access device connected to the network and or to the external network . The network video camera can be accessed controlled and or configured directly via an interface of the network video camera e.g. an application a proprietary program or any other program executed and operated by the network video camera or remotely using an interface of the network device or the access device e.g. an application a web browser a proprietary program or any other program executed and operated by the network device or the access device . The network video camera includes a lens that is configured to and that may bend light that reflects off of one or more objects in the environment and direct the light into the network video camera . In some embodiments network video camera may include multiple lenses not shown . The network video camera may also include a shutter not shown between the lens and a local storage device not shown . The shutter is configured to and may open to allow the light to reach the storage device. The shutter may then close once the light has been captured. The storage device may include any device that can record the light as one or more video images. For example the storage device may include a digital storage device film or any other appropriate storage device. In the event a digital storage device is used an electrical device or sensor may generate an electrical charge according to an amount of light being received. The charge may be interpreted by a processor or other set of computer components to process the received image. For example a sensor may be separated into pixels and each pixel s charge may be recorded and interpreted. The resulting video images may then be recorded in the local storage device or transmitted to one or more remote storage devices on the external network . In some embodiments the network video camera may include one or more infrared IR blasters for sending IR commands to one or more devices.

A blocking mechanism of the network video camera can be controlled to selectively block a lens from capturing video images. The blocking mechanism is a visible object that provides visible and physical feedback that the lens is clearly blocked from capturing video images. shows the network video camera with the blocking mechanism activated to block the lens from capturing video images. While a single blocking mechanism is shown in more than one blocking mechanism may be used in some embodiments. For example another network video camera not shown may include multiple lenses and a separate blocking mechanism may be used to block each lens. In some embodiments a single blocking mechanism may be used to block more than one lens of a network video camera. By using one or more blocking mechanisms to block one or more lenses of the network video camera people in the environment or venue where the network exists can be certain that the network video camera is not recording when recording is not desired.

In some embodiments the blocking mechanism and the recording state of the network video camera may operate in conjunction with one another. In some examples the blocking mechanism may be activated or deactivated in response to the recording state of the network video camera . For example the blocking mechanism may be activated when the network video camera is instructed to stop recording and may be deactivated when the network video camera is instructed to record. In some examples the recording state of the network video camera may be set based on the state of the blocking mechanism . For example the network video camera may automatically record when the blocking mechanism is deactivated and may automatically stop recording when the blocking mechanism is activated. In some embodiments the blocking mechanism and the recording state of the network video camera may operate independently of one another. For example the blocking mechanism may be controlled separately from the network video camera so that the lens is not always blocked by the blocking mechanism when the network video camera is not recording.

In some examples the blocking mechanism may be a movable or stationary casing surrounding the network video camera . In such examples the casing or the lens can be moved so that the blocking mechanism covers the lens . For example the casing itself may be movable and can be moved to cover the lens . In another example the casing is stationary and the camera or the lens may be moved so that the lens is covered by the casing. In some examples the blocking mechanism may be a movable piece of material separate from the casing that can be moved back and forth to cover the lens . In some examples the blocking mechanism may be built into the lens . For example the lens may include a material that changes its light transmission properties e.g. turns opaque translucent or clear depending on the material when a current voltage or heat is applied to the material. In one example a current or voltage may be applied to the lens that may prevent the network video camera from capturing video images. In another example a current or voltage may be applied to the lens that may allow the network video camera to capture video images. The material may include an electro chromic material a thermo chromic material a photo chromic material a suspended particle type of material a micro blind material or a liquid crystal device. In some embodiments the blocking mechanism may include a combination of the above examples. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the blocking mechanism may include any suitable physical and visible object for covering the lens .

The blocking mechanism may be controlled using any appropriate controlling device. For example the blocking mechanism may be controlled using a motor e.g. servo motor an electromagnetic motor or the like a spring with a latch e.g. a magnetic latch one or more metal plates that contract upon being electrically charged a combination thereof or any other appropriate means by which the blocking mechanism can be moved.

In some embodiments the blocking mechanism may be manually controlled. For example the blocking mechanism may be configured so that a user can physically push pull slide or otherwise manipulate the blocking mechanism to block and unblock the lens . In some embodiments the user may also manually turn on or off recording by the network video camera when blocking or unblocking the lens . For example the user may push one or more physical buttons on the network video camera or virtual buttons e.g. on a display of the network video camera the network device or the access device to turn recording by the network video camera on and off. In some embodiments the network video camera may automatically stop recording when the blocking mechanism is manually activated or may automatically begin recording when the blocking mechanism is deactivated.

In some embodiments various events may be detected that cause the network video camera to not record and that activate the blocking mechanism to block the lens as well as events that cause the network video camera to record and that deactivate the blocking mechanism to unblock the lens . As previously noted in some embodiments the blocking mechanism and the recording state of the network video camera may operate in conjunction with one another and thus a detected event may cause the blocking mechanism and the recording state of the network video camera to change in parallel. In some embodiments a detected event may only control operation of the blocking mechanism or may only change the recording state of the network video camera . In some embodiments when the network video camera is deactivated not recording and blocking mechanism activated other sensors on the network video camera or with which the network video camera is connected may remain active and able to sense different conditions or events. For example other sensors may include a motion sensor a temperature sensor an orientation device e.g. accelerometer gyroscope seismometer or the like a humidity sensor audio voice recognition program or any other appropriate sensor.

In some embodiments events that control the blocking mechanism and or the recording state of the network video camera may require user input or interaction with the network video camera before the recording state changes or before the blocking mechanism is activated or deactivated. For example the network video camera may include one or more physical buttons on the network video camera and or one or more virtual buttons e.g. on a display of the network video camera a display of the network device or a display of the access device that allow a user to activate and deactivate the blocking mechanism and or to cause the network video camera to record or not record. Upon a physical or virtual button designated for the blocking mechanism being pushed or otherwise selected a signal may be sent to a controller of the network video camera that causes activation or deactivation of the blocking mechanism . A physical or virtual button may also be designated for recording and once the button is pushed a signal may be sent to the controller to cause the network video camera to record or not record. As another example the network video camera may include a voice recognition program that recognizes one or more users voices. A user may issue voice commands that cause the network video camera to record or not record and that cause the blocking mechanism to block or unblock the lens . In some embodiments a voice command must be from an authorized user that has programmed or trained the voice recognition program to recognize the authorized user s voice. Other input may also be used for authenticating a user to allow the user to control the blocking mechanism and the recording state of the network video camera such as face recognition biometric input e.g. fingerprint recognition iris recognition blood vessel recognition using IR sensors or the like gait analysis or other appropriate input.

In some embodiments events may be detected that cause a change in the recording state of the network video camera and or that cause activation or deactivation of the blocking mechanism to occur without requiring any user input or interaction. In some examples the network video camera may be set to a recording state to record or to not record and a corresponding blocking mechanism position under certain conditions and detection of an occurrence of an event may cause the network video camera to change recording states and to activate or deactivate the blocking mechanism . For example when the venue in which the network exists is a user s home a default mode may be set that causes the network video camera to not record and the blocking mechanism to prevent the network video camera from recording when an authorized or predefined user is located within the home. In another example the venue in which the network exists may be a business and a default mode may be set that causes the network video camera to record and the blocking mechanism to allow the network video camera to record at all times unless a specific event is detected. Various examples of embodiments of events that can cause a change in recording state and a change in position of the blocking mechanism will now be given.

In one example the network video camera may be set to not record and to activate the blocking mechanism and detection of various events may trigger deactivation of the blocking mechanism to allow the network video camera to record and may also trigger the network video camera to start recording. The venue for the network may be a home and the network video camera may be set to not record when an owner is present within the home. The blocking mechanism may be activated so that any person within the home is certain that the network video camera is unable to record their actions and behaviors.

The network video camera may determine that the owner is present within the home using various techniques. For example the network video camera may be configured to and may receive an input from the owner to indicate the owner s presence. Input may include selection of a physical button on the network video camera or a virtual button on a display of the network video camera the access device or the network device that indicates presence of the owner. Input may also include fingerprint data received via a fingerprint reader in which case the network video camera may include a program to process the received fingerprint data to determine whether it matches stored fingerprint data of the owner. In another example the network video camera can determine presence of a user based on presence of an access device carried by the user. For example the network video camera may communicate with an access device e.g. access device of the owner to determine when the owner is present. In some embodiments the owner s access device may periodically transmit a presence signal to the network video camera to indicate presence of the owner. An application or other program that includes an application programming interface that is able to interact with the network video camera may generate the signal and cause the signal to be transmitted to the network video camera .

In another example the network video camera may capture one or more images of a subject present within the home and may determine whether the owner is present within the home by performing image analysis on the image. In some examples the network video camera can analyze an image to determine whether a face of the subject matches the owner using facial recognition techniques to determine whether the build and height of the subject matches that of the owner by comparing features of the image to stored features of the owner or the like. In one example the network video camera may obtain motion sensor data to determine the presence of a subject which may include a person an animal or any other moving object. In some cases motion sensor data may be obtained from a separate motion sensing device connected to or in communication with the network video camera . In some cases the network video camera may operate as a motion sensing device when the blocking mechanism is covering the lens . For example the blocking mechanism may include a filter material e.g. polymer plastic or other appropriate material that is thin enough to allow enough light to reach the lens so that the lens can detect motion but that obscures details enough so that detailed images cannot be captured by the network video camera . In another example the lens may be made of material that changes light transmission properties e.g. turns opaque translucent or clear depending on the material when a current voltage or heat is applied as described above. When the lens is in an opaque or translucent state the lens may operate to detect motion but not capture clear images. In yet another example the network video camera may include one or more infrared IR sensors that can detect motion in the IR frequency spectrum by detecting changes in IR energy as an object moves. The IR sensors can detect motion even in cases when the blocking mechanism covers the IR sensors. When motion sensor data is obtained indicating that motion is detected in the home the network video camera may temporarily deactivate the blocking mechanism to allow the network video camera to capture an image of the subject. Once the image is captured the network video camera may activate the blocking mechanism . The image may then be analyzed to determine if the subject is the owner. When the owner is determined to be present in the home the network video camera may be set to not record and the blocking mechanism may be activated to block the lens from capturing video images. When the network video camera determines the owner is not home it may begin recording and may deactivate the blocking mechanism to unblock the lens . The network video camera may cease to record until a period of time has elapsed after the owner is last detected until an event is detected or until a command is received to record. When the network video camera is not recording and the blocking mechanism is activated to block the lens the camera may detect occurrences of events that trigger deactivation of the blocking mechanism to allow the network video camera to record and that may also trigger the network video camera to start recording.

An example of a detected event by the network video camera may include detection of an occurrence of an emergency event. In response to detecting an emergency event one or more processors of the network video camera may cause the blocking mechanism to deactivate and unblock the lens and may cause the network video camera to start recording. An example of an emergency event includes a window sensor being triggered indicating that a window has been broken or unexpectedly opened. Window sensors may detect a broken or open window based on separation of magnets between two pieces of the sensors based on a breach or shut off of a light beam between two pieces of the sensors based on a force on the sensors e.g. a vibration or shatter of the glass based on a sound of glass shattering or any other appropriate technique. The window sensors may be activated in response to user input in response to an alarm system being activated or other appropriate input. In some cases the network video camera may receive a signal from a window sensor indicating a broken or opened window either directly or through the gateway using the communication protocols previously described. In some cases a window sensor may sound an alarm when a window is broken or opened in which cases the network video camera may detect the sound emitted by the alarm and can determine an emergency event has occurred based on the detected sound.

Another example of an emergency event that may cause the blocking mechanism to deactivate to unblock the lens and may cause the network video camera to start recording includes detecting an irregular or loud noise. For example the network video camera may detect a cry for help a person screaming glass or other object breaking a gunshot a smoke alarm a burglar alarm or any other irregular noise event. In some cases audio signals may be received and recorded and values of the audio signals may be analyzed to determine a sudden increase in noise levels. For example a root mean squared analysis may be done including squaring the audio signal values e.g. amplitude values determining a mean of the signal values and taking the square root of the mean. In some examples the square root of the mean may not be done and only the mean values may be used. If the values show a sudden increase e.g. an amplitude increase above a threshold the network video camera may detect that an irregular noise has occurred and that an emergency has occurred. In response to the emergency the processor of the network video camera may cause the blocking mechanism to deactivate and unblock the lens and may cause the network video camera to start recording.

Another example of an emergency event may include detection of motion when motion is not expected. For example when the owner is not at home the network video camera may only record when certain events occur. As explained above the network video camera may operate as a motion sensing device when the blocking mechanism is covering the lens e.g. using a filter material as the blocking mechanism using a material with dynamic light transmission properties IR sensors or the like . In some cases a separate motion sensing device that is connected to or that is in communication with the network video camera may detect motion and send motion sensor data to the network video camera . In another example the network video camera may perform scene differentiation to detect a difference between a scene viewed by the network video camera from one point in time to a second point in time. For example the network video camera may detect a change in the background to determine that an object or person is no longer present in the scene or that a new object or person has been added to the scene. To perform scene differentiation the processor of the network video camera may compare one frame to one or more subsequent frames to determine a change in the scene. The processor of the network video camera may cause the blocking mechanism to unblock the lens and may cause the network video camera to start recording when motion or a change in the viewed scene is detected.

The network video camera may also monitor vital statistics of a person and may detect an emergency event that includes the vital statistics falling below or goes above certain levels. For example the person may wear carry or be in contact with a device that gathers the person s vital statistics such as pulse or heart rate blood pressure temperature respiratory rate or any other relevant statistic. Various types of electronic wearable devices may gather the vital statistics and share the statistics with the network video camera . Electronic wearable devices may include a smart watch an electronic bracelet a smart necklace a smart adhesive device an earpiece a pair of smart glasses or any other device that can measure pulse heart rate temperature respiratory rate or other relevant statistics. In some embodiments the electronic device may transmit a signal to the network video camera in the event any of the vital statistics fall below or go above a predetermined level. The signal may be transmitted using any of the communication protocols previously described herein. In some embodiments the electronic device may stream measurements of the user s vital statistics to the network video camera so that the network video camera can determine when the statistics fall below or go above the threshold level. For example if the person s pulse or heart rate goes below 50 beats per minute or above 85 beats per minute the electronic device may send a signal to indicate an emergency to the network video camera . One of ordinary skill will appreciate that any level may be set as a threshold level to indicate to the network video camera that an emergency is occurring. Upon receiving a signal from the electronic device or upon determining that an emergency has occurred the network video camera may deactivate the blocking mechanism to unblock the lens and may begin recording.

The network video camera may receive signals from other electronic devices that can alert the network video camera of an emergency event or other event. For example network device may include a smoke detector a burglar or security alarm or other detection device. When an emergency is detected the network device can send a signal to the network video camera directly e.g. signal or via the gateway e.g. signals and such as when smoke is detected improper entry into the home is detected or another event is detected. For example if smoke is detected by the network device the network device may transmit signal to the network video camera . As another example a burglar or security alarm may detect unauthorized entry or motion in a home and may transmit signal to the network video camera to deactivate the blocking mechanism and to begin recording. The signals may be transmitted using any of the communication protocols previously described herein. Once a signal is received indicating an occurrence of an emergency event the network video camera may deactivate the blocking mechanism to unblock the lens and may begin recording. Other devices connected to or that have access to the network may also send signals to the network video camera that can trigger the camera to deactivate the blocking mechanism and record or to activate the blocking mechanism and stop recording. For example a network connected doorbell may be in communication with the network video camera . When a person presses the network connected doorbell the doorbell may transmit a signal to the network video camera indicating that a person is at the door. Upon receiving the signal the network video camera may deactivate the blocking mechanism and begin recording. As another example a second network video camera not shown may send a signal to the network video camera that causes a change in state of the blocking mechanism and a change in recording state. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any other network connected device that is in communication with the network video camera may send signals to the camera that trigger the network video device to record and activate the blocking mechanism or to not record and deactivate the blocking mechanism .

Another example of an emergency event may include detection of a power outage. For example the network video camera may be in communication with a breaker box of the home or in communication with another device that can communicate with the breaker box. The network video camera may be able to detect whether the breaker box is providing power to the home or whether the breaker box is receiver power from the power grid. In some cases the breaker box may send a signal to the network video camera indicating loss of power. In some cases the breaker box may send a signal to the other device and the other device can send the signal to the network video camera . Once a power outage is detected by the network video camera the blocking mechanism may be deactivated and recording may begin.

The network video camera may also detect an earthquake and may deactivate the blocking mechanism and begin recording. For example the network video camera may include an accelerometer gyroscope seismometer or other orientation device that allows the network video camera to detect seismic activity. When an earthquake occurs primary waves and secondary waves are generated. The primary waves travel at a faster velocity than the secondary waves. Secondary waves are shear waves that are transverse in nature and thus are known to cause ground movement. Primary waves may be detected by the network video camera and can be used to indicate that secondary waves will follow due to the slower velocity of the secondary waves. For example the orientation device in the network video camera may measure the frequency of received seismic waves and a processor may obtain the measured frequency and determine that the waves are in fact primary waves based on the detected frequency. For example a primary wave may travel at 330 meters per second. The processor may compare the frequency of the received wave to the stored frequency of a primary wave. Once a primary wave is detected the network video camera may deactivate the blocking mechanism to expose the lens and may begin recording to capture the occurrence of the earthquake. The orientation device may also be used to detect other vibrations or impact events that may indicate an emergency event or other event that may cause the network video camera to deactivate the blocking mechanism and record or to activate the blocking mechanism and stop recording. For example an object in the home or venue may break or fall off of a wall and the orientation device may detect the impact or vibration of the event. The network video device may deactivate the blocking mechanism and begin recording upon detecting the impact or vibration. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any other impact or vibration event may be detected and cause the network video device to record and activate the blocking mechanism or to not record and deactivate the blocking mechanism .

Another example of an emergency event may include the presence of an unauthorized person in the home. For example the network video camera may store e.g. in a storage device of the camera or have access to e.g. in an external database a list of people that are authorized to be present in the home such as the owner a spouse or child of the owner or any other person that has been input as an authorized user on the list. The list may also include one or more defining characteristics of the authorized people such as a facial image a build and height description an access device identifier or other definable and recognizable characteristics. In some embodiments the network video camera may receive signals from an access device e.g. access device carried by the unauthorized person and may determine that an access device identifier of the person s access device is not recognized. The network video camera may determine that the person is not authorized in response to not recognizing the identifier. An application or other program of the access device may generate the signal and cause the signal to be transmitted to the network video camera . In some embodiments the network video camera may be configured to and may perform image analysis of an image of a subject in the home to determine whether a face of the subject matches an authorized person using facial recognition techniques whether the build and height of the subject matches that of an authorized person or the like. As previously described a processor of the network video camera may obtain motion sensor data to determine the presence of a subject such as from a separate motion sensing device or directly from the network video camera operating as a motion sensing device when the blocking mechanism is covering the lens . When motion sensor data is obtained indicating that motion is detected in the home the network video camera may deactivate the blocking mechanism for enough time to allow the network video camera to capture an image of the subject. The network video camera may re activate the blocking mechanism after the image is captured. The network video camera may analyze the captured image to determine if the subject is an authorized user. When the subject is determined to be an authorized user the network video camera may be set to or continue to not record and the blocking mechanism may be activated or may continue to block the lens from capturing video images. In the event the subject is determined to be unauthorized not an authorized user the network video camera may deactivate the blocking mechanism to expose the lens and may begin recording.

In another example of detecting the presence of an unauthorized person in the home a user may input into the network video camera the number of people that live in the home. The network video camera may store the input and use the stored number of people to detect an abnormal number of people in the home. For example the owner may input that only the owner lives in the home and to start recording when more than one person is detected in the home. The network video camera may analyze e.g. using motion sensing as described above the number of people that are present at a given point in time in the portion of the home at which the camera is facing and may determine if there are more than the stored number of people. In the event the network video camera determines that more than the appropriate number of people are present the network video camera may deactivate the blocking mechanism and begin recording.

Another example of a detected event that may cause the network video camera without requiring user input to deactivate the blocking mechanism and or to begin recording may include detecting a time of day or day of the week. In some examples a user may program the network video camera to deactivate the blocking mechanism to expose the lens and begin recording during certain designated hours of the day such as hours in which the owner is at work hours in which children of the owner are at school or any other designated time. For example the owner may program the network video camera to deactivate the blocking mechanism and to record every day from 8 am to 5 pm. The network video camera may be programmed to activate the blocking mechanism and to stop recording at all other times unless another event triggers the network video camera to deactivate the blocking mechanism and to record. As another example the owner may program the network video camera to deactivate the blocking mechanism and to record during hours in which the owner sleeps for example from 10 pm to 7 am. In some examples a user may program the network video camera to deactivate the blocking mechanism to expose the lens and begin recording on certain days of the week. For example the user may travel on the weekends and may program the network video camera to deactivate the blocking mechanism and begin recording by default on Saturdays and Sundays. In another example the network video camera may be programmed to deactivate the blocking mechanism and record or to activate the blocking mechanism and stop recording based on a sidereal time for a particular cosmological event or offsets thereof. In other examples the network video camera may be programmed to change recording state and or to change the activation state of the blocking mechanism at random times at random offsets from scheduled times at periodic intervals of time or the like. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the network video camera may be programmed to deactivate the blocking mechanism and to begin recording for any other day and or time combination.

Another example of a detected event that may cause the blocking mechanism to be deactivated and or recording to begin without requiring user input may include detection of the presence of certain authorized or predefined people or animals in the home. In one example the network video camera may detect that one or more children are present but that no adults are present. For example as previously described the network video camera may perform facial recognition techniques to analyze an image of one or more subjects in the home to determine whether a face of a subject matches that of a known child and that none of the one or more subjects is a known adult. The network video camera may also analyze an image to determine whether the build and height of the one or more subject in the image matches that of a known child but not an adult. As previously described motion sensor data may be used to determine the presence of a subject e.g. obtained from a separate motion sensing device directly from the network video camera operating as a motion sensing device or the like and can be used to temporarily deactivate the blocking mechanism so that the network video camera can capture an image of the one or more subjects. The network video camera may analyze the captured image to determine if the one or more subjects include a child but not an adult. When a child is determined to be present but not an adult the network video camera may be set to record and the blocking mechanism may be deactivated so that the child can be monitored for safety reasons. In the event an authorized adult is determined to be present with the child the network video camera may keep the blocking mechanism activated to block the lens and may continue to not record. In another example the network video camera may detect the presence of an animal and may deactivate the blocking mechanism and may begin recording using similar techniques as those described above. In yet another example the network video camera may detect the presence of more than a threshold number of people using similar techniques as those described above. For example an image may be captured of a scene and the image may be analyzed to determine if a number subjects above the threshold number include people. The threshold number of people may indicate a party or other social event is occurring and a user may program the network video camera to deactivate the blocking mechanism and to record when the threshold number of people are detected. In some cases the network video camera may be pre programmed with a party mode that allows recording when the threshold number of people is detected.

Another example of a detected event may include detection that a person is sleeping in which case the network video camera may deactivate the blocking mechanism and may begin recording. In one example the person may wear carry or be in contact with a device that gathers the person s pulse or heart rate blood pressure temperature respiratory rate or any other relevant statistic that can be used to determine whether the person is sleeping. Various types of electronic wearable devices may gather the vital statistics and share the statistics with the network video camera such as a smart watch an electronic bracelet a smart necklace a smart adhesive device an earpiece a pair of smart glasses or any other device that can measure pulse heart rate temperature respiratory rate or other relevant statistics. In some embodiments the electronic device may transmit a signal to the network video camera in the event any of the vital statistics fall within a range of measurements that indicate that the person is sleeping but not below a certain level that would indicate a safety concern. The signal may be transmitted using any of the communication protocols previously described herein. In some embodiments the electronic device may stream measurements of the person s vital statistics to the network video camera and the network video camera may determine when the statistics fall within the range that indicates sleeping. For example if the person s pulse or heart rate falls between 50 55 beats per minute the electronic device may send a signal to the network video camera to indicate that the person is sleeping. In some embodiments the electronic device or the network video camera may determine a percentage change in the person s statistics to determine whether the person is sleeping. For example if a drop of 5 10 in heart rate is detected the electronic device or the network video camera may determine the person is sleeping. One of ordinary skill will appreciate that any level may be set as a threshold level to indicate a person is sleeping.

The network video camera may also detect that a person is sleeping based on lighting characteristics and motion of a person. For example the network video camera may detect light levels in the person s room using one or more light sensors e.g. IR sensors or other light sensors as well as motion in the room e.g. using motion data obtained from a separate motion sensing device obtained directly from the network video camera operating as a motion sensing device or the like . The network video camera may determine that the person is sleeping when the person is not moving and the lights are off or go below a light threshold level. The light threshold may be a predefined amount of lumens measured in an area of the home or other venue. The network video camera may also determine that the person has a normal heart rate or other vital statistic using the techniques described above to make sure that the person is sleeping instead of in an emergency situation. Upon determining that the person is sleeping based on vital statistics or based on the lighting and movement of the person the network video camera may deactivate the blocking mechanism to unblock the lens and may begin recording.

Another example of a detected event may include detection of a baby performing one or more activities. A user may program the network video camera to deactivate the blocking mechanism and to begin recording upon detection of an action being performed by the baby. For example anytime a sound is detected from the baby the network video camera may be programmed to deactivate the blocking mechanism and begin recording. In some embodiments the network video camera may deactivate the blocking mechanism and record anytime a baby is detected in a scene. A baby may be detected using any of the techniques described above such as using one or more image processing techniques.

While various examples are given above for illustrative purposes one of ordinary skill will appreciate that many other events may trigger the network video camera to deactivate the blocking mechanism to unblock the lens and to begin recording. Other examples may include detecting when a doorbell is activated or heard detecting when a light switch is turned on or off detecting a pipe burst a flood or other event based on echo detection or any other relevant event in which a user wants the network video camera to deactivate the blocking mechanism and to begin recording. For example network device may include an echo sensor installed by a plumbing fixture e.g. a sink a tub or other fixture and that can sense vibrations throughout a plumbing system. The echo sensor can detect vibrations that occur throughout the plumbing system every time water is used. The vibrations may be analyzed to identify when different fixtures are being used to detect different echo events. The network device may send signals to the network video camera to indicate when an echo event occurs and the network video camera can activate or deactivate the blocking mechanism and can begin recording or stop recording based on the echo event.

When the blocking mechanism is deactivated and the network video camera is recording various events may be detected that cause activation of the blocking mechanism and recording to stop. For example the network video camera may stop recording and activate the blocking mechanism upon detecting that a person is undressing. For example image processing and analysis may be performed on one or more images to determine when a user has removed one or more clothing items. As another example the network video camera may stop recording and activate the blocking mechanism when it detects that a person is showering. For example an echo sensor that is able to detect echo events such as water running may be included in the network video camera . The echo sensor may indicate to the network video camera that a shower is running in which case the network video camera may stop recording. In some embodiments the network video camera may stop recording for a period of time after the shower is detected e.g. 10 minutes 15 minutes 20 minutes or any other period of time and may continue recording after the period of time has lapsed. In other examples similar to those described above for causing the network video camera to record and to deactivate the blocking mechanism the network video camera may stop recording and may activate the blocking mechanism when it detects the presence of a predefined person e.g. an owner of a house a spouse or child of the owner or other predefined person detects a particular sound e.g. a predefined person talking or any other appropriate sound detects a programmed time of day or a day of the week detects a light level going above a light threshold e.g. a predefined number of lumens or the like. Any of the events described above for causing the network video camera to record and to deactivate the blocking mechanism may be used to cause the network video camera to not record and to activate the blocking mechanism. One of ordinary skill will appreciate that many other events may trigger the network video camera to activate the blocking mechanism to block the lens and to cease recording.

Another example of a detected event that may cause the network video camera to record and or deactivate the blocking mechanism or to not record and or deactivate the blocking mechanism may include active or passive voice detection. As described above one or more authorized users may issue voice commands that cause the network video camera to record or not record and that cause the blocking mechanism to block or unblock the lens . In some embodiments the network video camera may passively detect voices of certain users using a voice recognition program and may change its state based on the detected voices. For example an owner of a home in which the network exists may have a spouse and a child who are all authorized users. The network video camera may be programmed to recognize the voices of the owner the spouse and the child. The network video camera may operate to activate the blocking mechanism and or to stop recording anytime a voice of one of the authorized users is detected. In one example the network video camera may be recording due to a specific event e.g. a certain day or time of day receipt of an input or any other event described herein and may detect a voice of the owner. Upon detecting the owner s voice the network video camera may stop recording and may activate the blocking mechanism . In some examples the network video camera may operate to deactivate the blocking mechanism and to start recording anytime a voice of user is heard that is not an authorized user. For example in the event the network video camera detects a voice other than the owner spouse or child the network video camera may begin recording after deactivating the blocking mechanism . In some embodiments the network video camera may detect an emotional tone or mood in a known or unknown user s voice. For example the network video camera may be programmed to determine when a user is crying screaming or otherwise distressed and may deactivate the blocking mechanism and may begin recording upon detecting a distressed user. Tone of a user s voice may be determined using any suitable technique. For example a program or application in the network video camera may periodically e.g. every 1 second 2 seconds 3 seconds 10 seconds or other suitable time period detect a user s voice and may determine a pitch or tone of the voice. In some embodiments the network video camera may determine when the pitch or tone of the voice has changed from a previously detected pitch or tone. A machine learning system or technique may be used to analyze acoustic patterns of the voice and may determine which tones or pitches of the particular user correspond to certain emotions. The network video camera may react when the tone or pitch indicates an emotion that indicates crying screaming or any other type of distress.

Another example of a detected event that may cause the network video camera to change recording and or blocking mechanism states may include detecting presence of a known user based on usage behavior of the user through other one or more other sensors or devices. For example network video camera may infer that a user is present based on an event or a chain of events that are typical for the user. In one example the user may oftentimes wake up at 8 am brush his or her teeth and take a shower. A sensor connected to or integrated with the user s sink and a sensor connected to or integrated with the user s shower may communicate with the network video camera to indicate that a person is brushing their teeth and is taking a shower. The network video camera may determine that the user is present based on the activity matching an activity typically performed by the user. For example the network video camera may store or have access to e.g. via the external network an activity log that stores activity of the user. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any other detected activity may be used to infer the presence of a known user.

As described in some of the examples above the network video camera may temporarily deactivate the blocking mechanism to allow the network video camera to capture an image or record a video of a scene and once the image or video is captured the network video camera may activate the blocking mechanism . This mode of temporary deactivation may occur based on various events. For example the network video camera may temporarily deactivate the blocking mechanism to allow the network video camera to capture an image or record a video in response to detecting motion within the environment at a time when motion is not expected. In another example when the network video camera is not recording and the blocking mechanism is deactivated the network video camera may periodically deactivate the blocking mechanism and record an image or video. For example the periodic blocking mechanism deactivation and image or video recording may occur in order to detect whether any abnormal people events or objects are present in the environment. If an abnormal person event or object is detected the network video camera may continue to record until an event or input is detected that causes the network video camera to stop. In another example the network video camera may temporarily deactivate the blocking mechanism and capture an image or record in response to detecting voice of a user that is not authorized. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any other appropriate event may cause the network video camera to temporarily deactivate the blocking mechanism and to record video images.

In some embodiments the network video camera may include a semi privacy mode in which recorded images are blurry so that identity of people and subjects in the images cannot be determined based on the images themselves. For example the blocking mechanism may be thin enough so that enough light can be sensed by the lens and blurry images can be captured. In another example the network video camera may include two lenses with one lens being a high definition lens and the second lens being a low definition sensor e.g. a CMOS sensor or the like . The semi privacy mode may be achieved by causing the blocking mechanism to block the high definition lens and preventing the blocking mechanism or a second optional blocking mechanism from blocking the low definition sensor. The semi privacy mode may be used to detect events that may trigger a recording state change and a change in state of the blocking mechanism . For example the network video camera while in the semi privacy mode may detect when a person or object is in the venue when a person or object is not expected. Detection of an unexpected person or object may trigger the network video camera to deactivate the blocking mechanism and begin recording. In some examples the network video camera may selectively blur certain images or portion of an image. For example the network video camera may perform image analysis techniques to determine when a person is undressed and may selectively blur portions of the person s body so that those portions are not viewable on recorded images. In some examples the lens may change colors depending on the recording state of the network video camera . For example the lens may be clear when the network video camera is recording may be black when the camera is not recording and may be a milky or cloudy color when in a semi privacy mode. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any color may be used to indicate recording state of the network video camera .

In some embodiments the network video camera may include an audio recording device. The network video camera may be configured to and may record audio anytime video is being recorded. In some cases when the blocking mechanism is activated and the network video camera is not recording video images the network video camera may be configured to and may record audio. A user may allow or disable audio using an input on the network video camera or using an input on an access device.

The image analysis or processing techniques noted above may include any form of image processing such as digital image processing to perform various tasks including facial recognition. Facial recognition may be performed using any appropriate facial recognition program. For example a program may be executed by the processor of the network camera device to extract facial features from an image captured by the network camera device and compare the extracted facial features to facial features of images stored in a database. The database may be part of the network camera device or may be a remote database to which the network camera device may have access over a wired or wireless connection. Examples of facial recognition techniques may include a Hidden Markov model principal component analysis and eigenvectors linear discriminate analysis elastic bunch graph matching multilinear subspace learning using tensor representations neuronal motivated dynamic link matching or any other appropriate technique.

In some embodiments the network video camera may be configured to and may record a video or capture one or more images of a scene anytime the network video camera detects it is being deactivated. For example the network video camera may detect that the blocking mechanism is being moved from a deactivated position of not blocking the lens to an activated position of blocking the lens . The network video camera may also detect when the network video camera is being caused to stop recording. Upon detecting such movement of the blocking mechanism or adjustment of the recording state the network video camera may snap an image or photograph when the blocking mechanism is closed and recording is stopped. In another example the network video camera may record and store a video of the scene. For example the network video camera may store a recording of the scene for a period of time before the blocking mechanism was closed. In some embodiments the network video camera may also store a timestamp of the moment when the recording was stopped and the blocking mechanism was closed. The timestamp may record a time of day in which movement of the blocking mechanism from not blocking the lens to blocking of the lens is detected by the network video camera . In some embodiments the network video camera may determine who was in the house at that time at which the network video camera was deactivated. For example the network video camera may store information from signals received from access devices carried by one or more people in the house at that time. The information may include identification information of the access device and the person who owns the access device. The information may also include a location of the access device when the network video camera was deactivated. Accordingly the network video camera can store a record of the person or people that stopped the network video camera from recording and closed the blocking mechanism and or a time at which it occurred. Storing the record of the network video camera being deactivated may provide an owner with a security mechanism in the event an unauthorized person deactivates the network video camera .

In some embodiments the network video camera may automatically begin recording and may cause the blocking mechanism to uncover the lens a period of time after the blocking mechanism was closed and or after the network video camera is caused to stop recording. In some cases the network video camera may only begin recording and deactivate the blocking mechanism when an unauthorized or unrecognized person closes the blocking mechanism and stops the network video camera from recording. For example an image may be captured of the person deactivating the network video camera and the image may be analyzed to determine whether the person is an authorized user. Facial recognition may be performed on the image to authorize the person. In some embodiments once the network video camera has automatically started recording after closure of the blocking mechanism authentication may be required to cause the network video camera to stop recording. Authentication may include entry of a password on a keypad or display of the network video camera entry of password via an access device of an authorized user a biometric authentication e.g. fingerprint authentication iris authentication blood vessel recognition using IR sensors or the like voice authentication using voice recognition or any other appropriate authentication technique.

In some embodiments the network video camera may alert a user when recording by the network video camera is stopped or when the blocking mechanism is activated to cover the lens . In some examples the alert may include an audible alarm or sound that is triggered when recording is stopped or the blocking mechanism is activated. In some examples the alert may be received by the user via an access device. For example the network video camera may transmit a signal to the access device when recording is stopped or the blocking mechanism is activated. In some embodiments the network video camera may issue different types of alerts or may perform different alert behavior based on the context in which recording by the network video camera is stopped or in which the blocking mechanism was closed. For example a user may not want an alert every time recording is stopped or the blocking mechanism closes. In some examples the network video camera may only send alerts when an unauthorized person is detected closing the blocking mechanism or stopping the network video camera from recording.

As previously noted more than one network video camera may be present in the network . For example as illustrated in a second network video camera may be added to the network . Similar to the network video camera the network video camera includes a blocking mechanism that can be operated to block the lens . The network video camera is configured to and may exchange communications with the network device e.g. using signal and with the access device e.g. using signal . The network video camera may also exchange communications with various devices via the gateway and or the network including the network device the access device the network video camera or another device inside or outside of the network . The network video camera can communicate with any of the network device access device network video camera or other device using any of the communication protocols described above.

In the example illustrated in the blocking mechanisms and of the network video cameras and are deactivated so that that the lenses and are exposed. The network video camera may begin or stop recording and the blocking mechanism may be activated or deactivated using any of the techniques described above with respect to . While two network video cameras are shown in one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any number of network video cameras may be present in the network . For example each room of a venue may be equipped with one or more network video cameras. In some embodiments each network video camera may be configured to change its recording state and blocking mechanism state individually independent of other network video cameras. In some embodiments all of the network video cameras within a venue may be configured to operate similarly based on detected events. In some embodiments certain network video cameras may be configured to change a recording state and or change a state of the blocking mechanism based on different events than other network video cameras within a venue. In some examples a set of network video cameras in one room or zone of a venue may operate based on different detected events then another set of network video cameras in another room or zone of the venue. For example the network video camera may be located in a kitchen of the venue in which network exists and the network video camera may be located in a bedroom of the venue. The network video camera may be configured to react to different events than the events to which the network video camera is configured to react.

In some embodiments the network video camera and the network video camera may exchange communications. Communications may be exchanged using any of the communication protocols discussed herein. In some examples the network video cameras and may control one another to perform certain functions. As illustrated in the network video camera may issue a command to the network video camera by transmitting signal . The network video camera may include a transmitter or a transceiver that is configured to and that may transmit the signal with the command. The network video camera may also issue a command to the network video camera and may include a transmitter or a transceiver for transmitting the command. The network video cameras and may include a transceiver or receiver for receiving signals with commands. In some embodiments the network video camera may transmit the signal directly to the network video camera . In some embodiments the signal may be transmitted to the gateway and the gateway may route the signal to the network video camera .

The command sent using signal may instruct the network video camera to begin or stop recording and or to activate or deactivate its blocking mechanism . For example when received by the network video camera the command may cause the blocking mechanism to block the lens and the camera to stop recording. In an example illustrated in the network video camera may detect an event or receive manual input that causes the blocking mechanism to close and the network video camera to stop recording. Upon detecting the event or receiving the manual input the network video camera may send the signal with a command instructing the network video camera to also stop recording and to activate the blocking mechanism to block the lens . Accordingly the network video cameras and may be synchronized to record and not record at similar times as well as to activate and deactivate the blocking mechanisms and at similar times. In another example upon detecting an event or receiving manual input that causes the blocking mechanism to close and the network video camera to stop recording the network video camera may send the signal with a command that instructs the network video camera to deactivate the blocking mechanism and to begin recording. Such a command may be sent to the network video camera in the event an unauthorized user is detected closing the network video camera . Accordingly a different network video camera e.g. network video camera other than network video camera may begin recording the unauthorized user when the network video camera is deactivated. Both network video cameras and may send recorded images to a common storage location. The common storage location may include one or more storage devices on the network and or one or more remote storage devices located on the external network .

In some embodiments the network video cameras and may be configured to work in conjunction with one another to capture images of a scene. Other network video cameras other than those shown may also be used in conjunction with the network video cameras and . For example the network video cameras and may take turns capturing video images of a venue or scene. The coordination of which network video camera and captures images of the venue or scene may depend on which camera or has the best view of an object or person that is of interest. For example if a person is walking from a first part of a room to a second part of the room the network video camera may have a better angle to capture images of the first part of the room and the network video camera may have a better angle to capture images of the second part of the room. The cameras and may coordinate with one another so that the network video camera captures images of the person when in the first part of the room and the network video camera captures images of the person when in the second part of the room. For example the cameras and may exchange signals with one another to indicate a view or angle at which the camera or is pointed to indicate when each camera and plans to capture images to instruct the other camera or to not capture images or the like. Other factors that may be taken into account by the network video cameras and when coordinating video capture may include battery power resolution capability ability to perform a particular function e.g. motion detection semi privacy mode or any other function described herein or the like. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the network video cameras and may coordinate image capture based on any other relevant factors. Once captured the different network video cameras may send the recorded images to a common storage location which may include one or more storage devices on the network and or remote storage located on the external network .

Process is illustrated as a logical flow diagram the operation of which represent a sequence of operations that can be implemented in hardware computer instructions or a combination thereof. In the context of computer instructions the operations represent computer executable instructions stored on one or more computer readable storage media that when executed by one or more processors perform the recited operations. Generally computer executable instructions include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular functions or implement particular data types. The order in which the operations are described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described operations can be combined in any order and or in parallel to implement the processes.

Additionally the process may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. As noted above the code may be stored on a machine readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program comprising a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The machine readable storage medium may be non transitory.

At the process includes detecting using a computing device an occurrence of an event. The event may include any event that is relevant for causing one or more blocking mechanisms of a network video capture device to block or unblock one or more lenses from capturing video images and for causing the network video capture device to start or stop recording. As described above a blocking mechanism includes a physical body that provides visible feedback that the one or more lenses are blocked. An example of an event may include any event described above with respect to . In some examples an event may require user input or interaction before the one or more blocking mechanisms block activate or unblock deactivate the one or more lenses or before a change in recording state occurs. For example a user may push a physical button on the network video capture device or a virtual button e.g. on a display of the network video capture device on a display of a network device in communication with the network video capture device or on a display of an access device in communication with the network video capture device to activate or deactivate the blocking mechanism and or to cause the network video capture device to record or not record. In another example a voice recognition program may recognize a user s voice command. The user may issue a voice command that causes the one or more blocking mechanisms to block or unblock the one or more lenses and that causes the network video capture device to record or not record. In some examples an event may be detected that causes a change in the recording state of the network video capture device and or that causes the one or more blocking mechanisms to block or unblock the one or more lenses without requiring any user input or interaction. For example such an event may include an emergency event a presence of a predefined person a sound a time of day a particular day of the week a command received from a network device a command received from an access device a light level going above a light threshold or any of the other events described with respect to . In some embodiments occurrence of the presence of the predefined person is detected by performing face recognition on a face of the predefined person.

At the process includes activating one or more blocking mechanisms of a network video capture device to block one or more lenses of the network video capture device from capturing video images wherein the one or more blocking mechanisms are activated to block the one or more lenses when the occurrence of the event is detected and wherein the one or more blocking mechanisms include a physical body that provides visible feedback that the one or more lenses are blocked. For example as illustrated in the one or more blocking mechanisms clearly and visibly cover the one or more lenses and thus provide certainty that the network video capture device is not recording when recording is not desired. In some embodiments the process includes causing the network video capture device to stop recording.

In some embodiments when the one or more lenses are blocked by the one or more blocking mechanisms the one or more lenses are configured to operate as a motion sensor. In some embodiments when the one or more lenses are blocked by the one or more blocking mechanisms the network video capture device is configured to record audio. In some embodiments the network video capture device can operate as a motion sensor and record audio when the one or more lenses are blocked by the one or more blocking mechanisms.

The network video capture device may further include a transmitter and a receiver or a transceiver. In some embodiments the process includes generating a command that is configured to and that may cause a blocking mechanism of another network video capture device to block a lens of the other network video capture device. The process may further include causing the transmitter or transceiver to transmit the command. The command or a separate command may also cause the other network video capture device to stop recording. For example as illustrated in network video camera may issue a command to network video camera by sending signal directly or via gateway . Upon receiving the command the network video camera may stop recording and cause its blocking mechanism to block the lens . The network video capture device may generate and transmit the command in response to detecting any of the events described above with respect to .

In some embodiments in which the one or more lenses are blocked by the one or more blocking mechanisms the process includes detecting an occurrence of an additional event and deactivating the one or more blocking mechanisms to allow the one or more lenses to capture video images wherein the one or more blocking mechanisms are deactivated to allow the one or more lenses to capture video images when the occurrence of the additional event is detected. The additional event may include any event described above with respect to such as a presence of a predefined person a presence of an unauthorized person a broken window a sound a vibration a time of day a particular day of the week a command received from a network device a command received from an access device a light level going below a threshold or any other relevant event. In some embodiments the network video capture device includes a storage device and the process includes recording a predefined time period of video images in the storage device. The predefined time period of video images may be recorded when the occurrence of the additional event is detected. For example the network video capture device may operate as a motion sensor when a lens is blocked by a blocking mechanism. The network video capture device may detect motion of an object and may deactivate the blocking mechanism for the period of time so that a video may be recorded of the detected object. As another example the network video capture device may detect the presence of a predefined person or animal and may begin recording for the predefined period of time in order to capture video of the person or animal.

In some embodiments the process includes deactivating the one or more blocking mechanisms to temporarily allow the one or more lenses to capture video images for a period of time and activating the one or more blocking mechanisms to block the one or more lenses when the period of time expires. For example the network video capture device may temporarily deactivate a blocking mechanism to allow the network video capture device to capture an image or record a video of a scene and once the image or video is captured the network video capture device may activate the blocking mechanism. This mode of temporary deactivation may occur based on various events including any of the events described with respect to .

Process is illustrated as a logical flow diagram the operation of which represent a sequence of operations that can be implemented in hardware computer instructions or a combination thereof. In the context of computer instructions the operations represent computer executable instructions stored on one or more computer readable storage media that when executed by one or more processors perform the recited operations. Generally computer executable instructions include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular functions or implement particular data types. The order in which the operations are described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described operations can be combined in any order and or in parallel to implement the processes.

Additionally the process may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. As noted above the code may be stored on a machine readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program comprising a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The machine readable storage medium may be non transitory.

At the process includes detecting movement of a blocking mechanism of a network video capture device from a first position in which a lens is exposed to a second position in which the lens is blocked. One or more blocking mechanisms of the network video capture device are configured to selectively block one or more lenses from capturing video images and include a physical body that provides visible feedback that the one or more lenses are blocked. The process may further include detecting when the network video capture device is caused to stop recording. The blocking mechanism may be moved from the first position to the second position in response to detection of an occurrence of an event such as any event described above with respect to . The network video capture device may also stop recording in response to the same event that caused the movement of the blocking mechanism or in response to a separate event.

At the process includes capturing one or more images of a scene wherein the one or more images of the scene are captured when the movement of the blocking mechanism is detected. The scene may include a portion of an environment or venue at which the network video capture device is aimed. In some embodiments one or more images of the scene may also be captured upon detecting when the network video capture device is caused to stop recording. In some embodiments one or more images of the scene may be captured upon detecting the movement of the blocking mechanism and when the network video capture device is caused to stop recording. In one example capturing one or more images of the scene includes snapping a single image or a photograph of the scene when the blocking mechanism is closed and or when recording is stopped. In another example capturing one or more images of the scene includes capturing or recording a video of a scene when the blocking mechanism is closed and or when recording is stopped. In some embodiments the video of the scene is recorded a period of time prior to the movement of the blocking mechanism.

In some embodiments the process may also include storing a timestamp wherein the timestamp records a time of day in which the movement of the blocking mechanism is detected. In some embodiments the timestamp or a separate timestamp may also record when the network video capture device was caused to stop recording. In some embodiments the process may include determining who was in the house at that time at which the network video capture device was deactivated to block the lens and or to stop recording. For example the network video capture device may store information from signals received from access devices carried by one or more people in the house at the time of deactivation. The information may include identification information of the access device and the person who owns the access device. The information may also include a location of the access device when the network video capture device was deactivated. Accordingly the network video capture device is able to store a record of the person or people that stopped the network video capture device from recording and or that closed the blocking mechanism along with a time at which it occurred.

In some embodiments the process may include beginning recording and causing the blocking mechanism to move from the second position to the first position to expose the lens a period of time after the blocking mechanism was moved from the first position to the second position and or after recording was stopped. In some cases process may begin recording and move the blocking mechanism from the second position to the first position when an unauthorized or unrecognized person deactivates the network video capture device by closing the blocking mechanism and stopping the network video capture device from recording. For example an image may be captured of the person deactivating the network video capture device and the image may be analyzed to determine whether the person is an authorized user. Facial recognition may be performed on the image to determine whether the person is authorized as described above. In some embodiments once recording has begun after the period of time from closure of the blocking mechanism authentication may be required to cause the network video capture device to stop recording. Authentication may include entry of a password on a keypad or a display of the network video capture device entry of password via an access device of an authorized user that is in communication with the network video capture device a biometric authentication e.g. fingerprint authentication iris authentication blood vessel recognition using IR sensors or the like voice authentication using voice recognition or any other appropriate authentication technique.

In some embodiments the network video capture device includes a transmitter and a receiver or a transceiver. The process may include causing the transmitter or the transceiver to transmit an alert to a user. For example the network video capture device may alert a user when recording by the network video capture device is stopped and or when the blocking mechanism is moved from the first position to the second position to cover the lens. In some examples the alert may include an audible alarm or sound that is triggered when recording is stopped or the blocking mechanism is activated. The alarm or sound may be emitted from a speaker of the network video capture device. In some examples the alert may be received by the user via an access device. For example the network video capture device may transmit a signal to the access device when recording is stopped and or the blocking mechanism is moved from the first position to the second position. The received alert may be presented to the user as a displayed alert as an audible sound a tactile alert and or any other appropriate alert. In some embodiments the network video capture device may issue different types of alerts or may perform different alert behavior based on the context in which recording by the network video capture device is stopped or in which the blocking mechanism was closed. For example the process may include determining whether the movement of the blocking mechanism is performed by an unauthorized user and causing a transmitter to transmit an alert to a user wherein the alert is transmitted to the user when movement of the blocking is performed by the unauthorized user. Accordingly the network video capture device may only send alerts when an unauthorized person is detected closing the blocking mechanism or stopping the network video capture device from recording.

By using a network video camera or capture device with a visible blocking mechanism that can be controlled to selectively block a lens of the network video camera from capturing video images visible and physical feedback can be provided to a user that the network video camera is not recording. People in the environment or venue where the network video camera exists can thus be certain that the network video camera is not recording when recording is not desired. Furthermore using the systems and processes described herein a network video camera can detect various events that cause the network video camera to stop or begin recording or to activate or deactivate one or more blocking mechanisms. Accordingly network video cameras that are connected to other client devices in a network environment can be automated or otherwise used in a way that is comfortable for people in the environment.

As noted above in the description of network devices upon being powered on or reset may be registered with a network e.g. a cloud network and associated with a logical network within a local area network. illustrates an example of a process for registering one or more network devices such as the network devices illustrated in . When multiple network devices and gateways are included within a local area network the network devices and or gateways may be installed at different times resulting in the techniques described with respect to possibly occurring for each network device and or gateway at different points in time. For example a user may install network device at a first point in time on a first floor of the user s house. Gateway may also be located on the first floor resulting in the network device pairing with gateway . The user may later install gateway and network device on a second floor of the user s home resulting in the network device pairing with gateway .

At a network device may detect one or more gateways upon being powered on or reset. In some embodiments a provisioning process may occur when the network device is powered on or reset and detected by an access device e.g. access device . During the provisioning process the access device may directly communicate with the network device. In some embodiments direct communication between network devices e.g. network devices and access device e.g. access device may occur using various communications protocols such as Universal Plug and Play UPnP Bluetooth Zigbee Ultra Wideband UWB WiFi Direct WiFi Bluetooth Low Energy BLE sound frequencies and or the like.

The provisioning process may include pairing the network device with a gateway and registering the gateway network device and access device with a server such as a server located within the cloud network . For example upon being powered on or reset to factory settings the network device may send or broadcast identification information to one or more access devices. The identification information may be sent during a discovery process. For example the identification information may be sent in response to a discovery request from an access device. In some cases the identification information may include a name of the network device.

An application program or the like that is installed on and executed by the access device may receive the identification information from the network device. When the application on the access device is launched by a user the access device may display the identification information for selection by the user. Once the network device identification information is selected the access device may send a signal to the network device indicating that it has been selected. The network device may then send to the access device a list of gateways that are detected by the network device. The access device may receive and display the list of gateways. In some embodiments the list of gateways includes multiple gateways e.g. gateways and that are located within the local area network. The user may select the gateway that the user wishes for the network device to pair. For example the gateway that provides the best signal strength for the network device may be selected. The access device may then prompt the user to enter login information that is required for accessing the network signals provided by the selected gateway. For example the login information may be the same information that was originally set up to access the gateway network signals e.g. when the gateway was initially installed . Once entered the access device may send the login information to the network device. The network device may use the login information to pair with the selected gateway. As one example network device and network device may be paired with gateway and network device may be paired with gateway .

Once paired with a gateway the network device may be registered with a cloud network e.g. cloud network . For example the access device e.g. via the application program or the like may instruct the network device to register with the cloud network upon receiving confirmation from the network device that it has been successfully paired with a gateway. At the network device may obtain credentials from the gateway as part of the registration process. For example network device may obtain credentials from gateway . At a same or later point in time network devices and may obtain credentials from gateways and respectively. In some embodiments the credentials may include a SSID of the local area network and a MAC address of the gateway. An SSID received from two gateways e.g. gateways may be the same due to the gateways both being within the same local area network. In some cases the SSID of the two gateways may be different. The MAC address of each of the gateways may be unique to each gateway. As a result of each gateway having a unique MAC address the credentials obtained from a gateway may be unique to that particular gateway. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other credentials may be obtained from a gateway such as an Internet Protocol address or the like.

The network device may then send the gateway credentials to the cloud network at . For example the network devices may send credentials for the gateway with which each is paired to the server located within the cloud network . For example network device may transmit the credentials obtained from gateway to the server and network device may transmit the credentials obtained from gateway to the server. In some embodiments the network device may also send information relating to the network device e.g. MAC address serial number make model number firmware version and or an interface module identifier or the like to the server and or information relating to the access device e.g. MAC address serial number application unique identifier or the like to the server. In some embodiments the communication of the credentials the network device information and or the access device information sent from the network device to the cloud network server may be in a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP format a Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS format a secure Transmission Control Protocol TCP format or the like. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other communication formats may be used to communicate between the network device and the cloud network server.

Once the credentials network device information and or access device information are received by the server the server may register each gateway as a logical network within the local area network and may generate a network ID for each logical network. For example the server may register the gateway as a first logical network. During the registration process the server may generate a first network ID for identifying the first logical network. As noted above one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any number of gateways may be present within the local area network and thus that any number of logical networks may be registered for the local area network. The server may further generate a first set of security keys for authenticating the network device and the access device. For example the server may generate a unique key for the network device and a separate unique key for the access device .

In some embodiments as previously described network device may also be paired with gateway at the same or a later point in time as the network device . During registration of the network device the server may determine that the access device has already been registered with another network device e.g. network device that is associated with the same logical network of gateway . In such embodiments the server may retrieve the first network ID that was used in registering the first logical network. The server may also generate a new unique security key for the network device and may retrieve the unique key that was previously generated for the access device when registering the gateway as the first logical network.

The gateway may also be registered by the server as a second logical network with a second network ID. A second set of security keys may be generated for the network device and the access device . For example the server may generate a unique security key for the network device and a unique security key for the access device as it relates to the second logical network. In some embodiments the gateway may be installed at a later point in time after the gateway is installed and thus may be registered as the second logical network at the later point in time.

A record or profile may then be created for associating each network ID with the credentials of a corresponding gateway the corresponding network device s and the access device. For example the server of the cloud network may associate the first network ID with the credentials of gateway . Similarly the server may associate the second network ID with the credentials of gateway . In some embodiments the server performs the association by generating and storing a record including the network ID the set of security keys the gateway credentials the network devices associated with the network ID e.g. MAC address or serial number of a network device the access devices associated with the network ID e.g. MAC address serial number application unique identifier or the like and or any other information relevant to the network devices and or gateways. For example the server may store the first network ID and the first set of security keys in a first record at a first memory space e.g. in Flash DRAM a database or the like along with the SSID and MAC address for gateway and an identifier of the network devices and or . The server may also store the second network ID and the second set of security keys in a second record at a second memory space along with the SSID and MAC address for gateway and an identifier of the network device . In some embodiments an example of a network device identifier may include a MAC address of the network device a serial number of the network device or any other unique identifier.

Each of the first and second network IDs may include a unique number or alphanumeric string generated sequentially or randomly. For example the first time a network device and an associated gateway are registered on the cloud network the unique network ID for the logical network of the gateway may start with 7000000. Each subsequent logical network that is created may be a sequential increment of the initial network ID e.g. 7000001 7000002 7000003 etc. . As another example the network ID may be generated by a random or pseudo random number generator. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other techniques for generating a unique ID may be used. The technique used to generate the network IDs may be dependent on a type of database that is included in the cloud network . For example different databases may have different proprietary mechanisms for creating a unique identifier.

The set of keys generated for each logical network may be generated using database specific technique. For example a MySQL technique may be used to generate the sets of keys. Each key may include a universally unique identifier UUID or a globally unique identifier GUID . As described above for each logical network the server may generate a unique key for a network device and a separate unique key for an access device.

At the network device may receive the network ID and the set of security keys. For example once the server has generated a record or profile associating the network device with the first logical network the server may transmit the first network ID and the first set of security keys to the network device . The network device may store the first network ID and one or more keys of the first set of keys. For example the network device may store the unique security key that was created by the server for the network device .

As noted previously the network devices and gateways may be installed at different times. For example in some embodiments network device may be installed at a point in time after the first logical network is created based on the pairing between gateway and network device . In such embodiments upon being powered on the network device may pair with gateway obtain credentials from gateway and transmit the credentials to the server in the cloud network using similar techniques as those described above. The server may associate the network device with the previously generated first network ID. As described above the server may also generate a new unique security key for the network device and may retrieve the unique key that was previously generated for the access device when registering the first logical network. The network device may then receive and store the first network ID and the security keys from the server.

At the network device may send the network ID and the set of security keys to the access device. For example the network device may send to the access device the first network ID and the unique security key generated for the access device . The network device and the access device may then communicate with the cloud network server using the first network ID and each device s unique key. In some embodiments the network device and the access device may generate a signature using their respective security key. The signature is sent to the cloud network server along with a communication from the network device or access device. The cloud network server may process the signature in order to authenticate each device as described below. The network device and access device may use different techniques to generate a signature.

A network device may generate a signature using its uniquely generated security key. For example the signature may be expressed as Authorization MacAddress Signature ExpirationTime. The Authorization term may be an attribute and the MacAddress Signature and ExpirationTime terms may include values for the Authorization attribute. In particular the MacAddress value may include the MAC address of the network device which may include a unique alphanumeric or numeric string. The network device may retrieve its MAC address from memory and place it in the MacAddress field. The Signature value may be expressed as Signature Base64 HMAC SHA1 PrivateKey StringToSign . The Signature value may include an alphanumeric or numeric string. HMAC SHA1 is an open source technique that includes a Hash based Message Authentication Code HMAC using a SHA1 hash function. The HMAC SHA1 technique uses the values PrivateKey and StringToSign as inputs. The PrivateKey input includes the unique security key that was generated by the server for the network device. The StringToSign input may be expressed as StringToSign MacAddress n SerialNumber n ExpirationTime. Accordingly the StringToSign input is generated by appending a serial number of the network device and an expiration time to the network device s MAC address. The ExpirationTime term may indicate the period of time for which the signature is valid. In some embodiments the ExpirationTime term may include a current time at which the signature is generated plus period of time for which the signature is valid. In one example the ExpirationTime term may be expressed as ExpirationTime Number of seconds since Jan. 1 1970.

The network device may place the signature in a data packet for transmission with a communication signal to the cloud network server. The network device may also place the network ID in the data packet. The signature and the network ID if included may be used by the cloud network server to verify that the network device is associated with the logical network. In some embodiments a signature is provided with each communication sent from the network device to the server. Once the signature is received by the server the server generates a signature using the same expression as that used by the network device. For example the server may retrieve the network device s key and other relevant information from storage and generate the signature using the key and the other information using the expression described above. The server then verifies whether the signatures match. Upon determining that the signatures match the server authenticates the network device s communication.

An access device may also generate a signature using its uniquely generated security key. For example the access device signature may be expressed as Authorization SDU UniqueId Signature ExpirationTime. The Authorization term may be an attribute and the SDU UniqueId Signature and ExpirationTime terms may include values for the Authorization attribute. The SDU UniqueId term may include a unique phone identifier. The SDU UniqueId value may depend on the type of access device that is used and the type of values that may be accessed and or generated by the type of access device. In some cases one type of access device may not allow an application to access a unique identifier of the access device e.g. a serial number UUID or the like . In such cases the SDU UniqueId value may include a value generated by an application or program installed on and executed on the access device that is used to access the network device. The value may be unique to the application or program that generated the value. In other cases another type of access device may allow an application to access a unique identifier of the access device. In such cases the SDU UniqueId value may include a value that is unique to the access device itself such as a serial number UUID or the like. In this example the access device may retrieve the unique value from storage within the access device. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other unique identifiers may be used to uniquely identify the access device. The Signature value may be expressed as Signature Base64 HMAC SHA1 PrivateKey StringToSign . Using this expression the input to the HMAC SHA1 technique may include a PrivateKey term and a StringToSign term. The PrivateKey input includes the unique security key that was generated by the server for the access device with regard to a particular logical network. The StringToSign input may be expressed as StringToSign UniqueId n n Expiration Time. The StringToSign value is different from the StringToSign value generated by network device in that no serial number is included. Accordingly the StringToSign input is generated by appending an expiration time to the access device s unique identifier. The ExpirationTime term may indicate the period of time for which the signature is valid similar to that above for the signature generated by the network device.

The access device may place the signature in a data packet and may transmit the data packet to the cloud network server with a communication signal. The network device may also place the network ID in the data packet. The signature and the network ID if included may be used by the cloud network server to verify that the access device is associated with the logical network and authorized to communicate with one or more network devices associated with the logical network. In some embodiments a signature is provided with each communication sent from the access device to the server. The cloud server may receive the signature and may generate a signature using the same expression as that used by the access device. For example the server may retrieve the access device s key and other relevant information from storage and generate the signature using the key and the other information using the expression described above. The server then verifies whether the signatures match. Upon determining that the signatures match the server authenticates the access device and allows it to communicate with one or more of the network devices associated with logical network.

Once the provisioning process is completed the access device may access the network device locally via the gateway e.g. communication signal or remotely via the cloud network e.g. communication signal . In some embodiments the communication between the access device and the cloud network may be a HTTP or HTTPS communication. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other communication mechanisms may be used to communicate between the access device and the cloud network .

The network may enable a user to monitor and or control operation of the devices and . For example a user may monitor and or control operation of devices by interacting with a visual interface of the gateway i.e. a web page for gateway and or a visual interface rendered on a display of an access device such as access device . In some embodiments an application may be run on the access device. The application may cause the access device to present a graphical interface that includes a visual interface for each device accessible on the network .

A network device may generate and or provide a status of the network device. In certain embodiments the status or state of a network device can be indicated on a visual interface on the access device for example within the tile with text and or graphically. The status of the network device can change based on time e.g. a period an interval or other time schedule . The status of a network device may be any piece of information pertinent to that particular network device. The status of a network device may be any changeable variable of that particular network device. For example the status of a network device may include a state of the network device itself e.g. on or off or how the network device is situated within the network with respect to the other network and other network devices throughout the network. For example the status of a network device may refer to the network device s proximity to another network device and or its ability to communicate with another network device because of the relative signal strength between the two network devices. In certain embodiments the status can include a value or some other information indicating a unit of measure for a setting or an attribute related to operation of a device connected to the network device. The setting or the attribute can be adjustable within a range of values. For example the device connected to the network device can be a light bulb and the status can include a value corresponding to brightness e.g. a percentage of total brightness emitted by the light bulb when the light bulb is powered on. In another example the device can be a motion sensor and the status can include a value corresponding to sensitivity of the sensor in a range of values between 0 to 100 when the sensor is powered on. In yet another example the device can be a fan and the status can include a value corresponding to a speed of the fan on a scale of 0 to 100 when the fan is powered on.

As described above upon being powered on or reset the network devices and or may be registered with the cloud network and associated with a logical network within the local area network . Similarly upon being powered or switched off or otherwise being disconnected from the network the status of the network device would be known and stored by a cache not shown associated with the network . For example cloud network may include storage e.g. cache that stores the status of the network devices within each local area network it is connected to and or provides access to. In another example the gateway may include storage that stores the status of the network devices within each local area network it is connected to and or provides access to. More specifically the status stored in the cache may include a status table which indicates the current status of each network device as of its last communication with each network device . A status table may include all statuses of each network device or individual storage tables for each local area network or other subset of its network devices networks. In one embodiment a change in status may prompt the network device to push its change in in status to the cloud network for storage or updating of the cloud s stored status table. In another embodiment cloud network and or gateway may continuously or periodically communicate with each network device to check to see if its status has changed.

In some embodiments a network device e.g. network device and or may upon connecting to the local area network check the status of the network devices on the network . In other embodiments one network device may check the status of one or more of the other network devices on the network . The network device may seek to check the status of another network device or access device for various reasons including to display such status es to a user on a display or otherwise to check whether that network device belongs to the same network to synchronize or coordinate any scheduled executions to update an attribute based on adjustment received among others. For example a network device or user may desire to check various statuses on a connected device such as power level timestamped activity history e.g. temperature for a thermostat motion for a motion detector etc. how long it has been active turned on attributes for operation of the connected device e.g. a brightness of a lamp a speed of a fan or a sensitivity of a sensor etc. among many others.

In some embodiments a device such as the access device or the gateway shown in connected to the network can communicate an updated status of a network device such as the network devices and or . The updated status can be communicated via the network and can include an adjustment that affects a status of the network device. The adjustment can include an amount of change to one or more attributes one or more settings or a combination thereof related to operation of the network device connected to the network . The access device or the gateway can present a graphical interface that can receive input corresponding to an adjustment to a status of a device. In some embodiments the updated status of the network device communicated to the network can be received by a network device to which the updated status applies or can be received by the gateway the cloud network or any other device in communication with the network. If the device cannot directly receive the updated status it can also receive the updated status from the cloud network the gateway or the other devices in the network . In some embodiments the network device can communicate its updated status to the network which can indicate whether the status has been updated. The updated status can be received by the access device or any other device in the network . In some embodiments where the access device is not located within the network the access device may not immediately receive the updated status. The updated status can be stored by the cloud network or the gateway for communication to the access device. The status of the network device can indicate whether an adjustment was made based on an adjustment in a setting or an attribute transmitted by the access device. Alternatively or additionally the access device can receive from any other network device connected to the network a status update indicating whether the adjustment was in fact made at a network device.

A network device seeking to check the status of any other device on the network may communicate with the cloud network to which all devices on the network are connected either directly or indirectly. Since the cloud network and or the gateway can store an updated table list of the statuses of each of the network devices and within the requesting network s local area network the cloud network and or gateway may communicate such status data to the network devices and and the access device. For example if network devices and were to each turn on and communicate their statuses to cloud network cloud network may analyze the status of network devices and and communicate to network devices and that they are each connected to the same local area network .

In some embodiments a user may create an account with login information that is used to authenticate the user and allow access to the network devices. For example once an account is created a user may enter the login information in order to access a network device in a logical network.

In some embodiments an accountless authentication process may be performed so that the user can access one or more network devices within a logical network without having to enter network device login credentials each time access is requested. While located locally within the local area network an access device may be authenticated based on the access device s authentication with the logical network. For example if the access device has authorized access to the logical network e.g. a WiFi network provided by a gateway the network devices paired with that logical network may allow the access device to connect to them without requiring a login. Accordingly only users of access devices that have authorization to access the logical network are authorized to access network devices within the logical network and these users are authorized without having to provide login credentials for the network devices.

An accountless authentication process may also be performed when the user is remote so that the user can access network devices within the logical network using an access device without having to enter network device login credentials. While remote the access device may access the network devices in the local area network using an external network such as a cloud network the Internet or the like. One or more gateways may provide the network devices and or access device connected to the local area network with access to the external network. To allow accountless authentication a cloud network server may provide a network ID and or one or more keys to a network device and or to the access device e.g. running an application program or the like as described above with respect to . For example as described above a unique key may be generated for the network device and a separate unique key may be generated for the access device. The keys may be specifically encrypted with unique information identifiable only to the network device and the access device. The network device and the access device may be authenticated using the network ID and or each device s corresponding key each time the network device or access device attempts to access the cloud network server.

When access device can enter the network as shown in access device may be authenticated based on the access device s authentication with the logical network or may otherwise commence communication with cloud network . Access device may also communicate notification of its presence or other information directly to other network devices within network as shown in by communication paths . As noted such communication may include various communications protocols such as Universal Plug and Play UPnP Bluetooth Zigbee Ultra Wideband UWB WiFi Direct WiFi Bluetooth Low Energy BLE sound frequencies and or the like. For example access device may communicate to all other devices in network including network device network device network device and network device information data regarding its status. Such status data may include the fact that it is present and turned on or other status data information. At any time that network devices and recognize that access device is present at network the network devices may communicate back to access device . For example the network devices may send an acknowledgement e.g. ACK signal back to access device to confirm that they received the status data sent by access device . The network devices may also send their own status data to access device .

While network devices and access device may each receive communication from other network devices around the network including the status of each of those network devices network devices and or access device may be continuously scanning network including for example running discovery algorithms to determine whether any devices within the network have moved turned on off or otherwise added to or subtracted from the network or have otherwise changed statuses.

Since network devices and access device may each receive communication from other devices around network including the status of each of those devices each network device within network may know the status of each other network device in the network . For example access device or devices may not be required to communicate with cloud network in order to obtain one or more of such statuses. Since cloud network is an external network and may be remote from network communication between network devices within the network and cloud may take more time than communication between two devices within network . For example communication between devices within network may take anywhere from 1 millisecond to 100 milliseconds while communication between a device within network and the cloud network may take anywhere from 50 milliseconds to 1 second or more . Furthermore if a network device is retrieving information from cloud the request must travel from the network device to cloud network and then the information must travel back from cloud network to the network device. This process may double the latency caused by retrieving information with cloud . Therefore devices within the network may choose to send and receive retrieve statuses directly with other devices within the network instead of communicating such information via cloud network . When a network device receives status data from another network device on the device s local area network it may store that status data so that it may retrieve and use that status data at a later time.

The cache can contain a known interface list including interface information for different known types of devices. The known list can include a record for each network device known by the access device to exist on the network . When an application is run on the access device the access device can access the known interfaces in the cache to present the display of access device . The display can present one or more visual interfaces each corresponding to a network device known to exist on the network . Each visual interface can be generated based on a visual interface module corresponding to each device on the network . In an example the display can include a visual interface e.g. a module tile for each device in the network having an interface in the known interface list.

The cache can also contain known status information about each network device in the known device list. When the application is run on the access device the access device can access the known status information in the cache to present a status display. The access device can populate each tile with an indicator representing the respective known status information for each device in the known device list. The status display can include an indicator of one or more attributes one or more settings or a combination thereof related to operation of each device in the network . For example the status display can include a speed of a fan e.g. a fan speed of 56 in a range of values between 0 and 100 of the network device e.g. a fan a value of sensitivity of a sensor e.g. a value of 34 in a range of values 0 100 for the network device e.g. a motion sensor a value of brightness e.g. 65 percent brightness for the network device e.g. a light bulb and a value of temperature e.g. a slow cooker . Although shown as having a single indicator for an attribute or a setting related to operation of a network device the status display can present a plurality of indicators corresponding to different attributes and or settings related to operation of a network device.

In some embodiments the cache can include other information about a network device. The other information can indicate a device s firmware version last known firmware update status connectivity to cloud status registration status e.g. whether the network device has a key or not and other such information. The cache can include information that could be used for troubleshooting. In embodiments described below the access device can access status information from another other device on the network and can use that information to update its own cache update the status display and or pass the information to the cloud network and or the gateway for trouble shooting and or storage.

Even though each network device may know and store e.g. in cache the state of each other network device within local area network a network device may not know when another network device changes status e.g. turns powers off . However network devices and or access devices within local area network may broadcast send any updates in its status to other devices on the network. For example if network device changes status it may send status data to the other network devices such as network devices and and to access device . However network device may not know which devices to update since the other devices may change statuses periodically e.g. turn off .

Therefore a network or access device may subscribe to another network or access device within local area network . For example network devices and and access device may subscribe to status data notifications updates from network device . Such a subscription may be registered for upon initial connection with network device when network device first enters local area network or at any other time after network device has been associated with local area network . Subscriptions may be controlled to last indefinitely or may expire after a certain predetermined period of time after initial subscription. However network devices may re subscribe to another network device before or after their previous subscription has expired.

Subscriptions between network device and or access devices may be registered similar to registering a network device upon initial entrance into the local area network including security registrations described herein with respect to . For example a network device may send its unique security key which it may have stored along with its network ID after being registered on the network to a network device to which it wants to subscribe. However subscriptions may take on many other forms including sending a different form of identification to a network device to which a network device wants to subscribe. However subscriptions may take on many other forms including sending a different form of identification to a network device to which a network device wants to subscribe.

Upon receiving a subscription from another network device or access device the device being subscribed to may store a list of the devices that subscribed to it. For example network device may store a list of network devices and and access device after those devices subscribe to network device . Then when network device undergoes a change in status network device may send that change in status to only the devices that had previously subscribed to it but where the subscription had not yet expired. Furthermore according to some embodiments the subscription list of a network device may be automatically updated if that device receives notification that another device has left the range of the local area network either from that device itself or from a different device. Therefore the various devices within a given local area network such as network each contain continuously updated statuses of each other device on the network and obtain those statuses and updates through direct communication without necessary use of the cloud.

Access device is not directly connected to network . Instead access device is external to network and may connect to cloud network and to network via cloud network . As noted network devices and may change status on a periodic basis. In some embodiments even when external to and not directly connected to network an access device may request to check the status of the devices on the network. When access device seeks to check the status of any device on the network the access device may transmit send a communication to the cloud network to which all devices on the network are connected either directly or indirectly via gateway . Since the cloud network stores an updated table list of the statuses of each of the devices within the requesting access device s network the cloud network may transmit a communication of such status data to the access device . For example after network devices and are turned on authenticated and are a part of network network devices and may communicate their statuses to cloud network . Furthermore any time the status of network devices and changes the device that incurred a status change may push send information e.g. an indication of that status change to cloud network . Cloud network may store in cache or otherwise the statuses which may be time stamped in metadata or otherwise of network devices and . Therefore when access device requests from cloud network the statuses of devices on network cloud may send its most recently stored updated statuses to access device .

To obtain the most updated status data of devices within network cloud may upon receiving a request for status data related to network devices and transmit send a communication e.g. request query etc. for such status data to network devices and via gateway . Once network devices and receive this request network devices and may send a communication e.g. updated status data to cloud to replace the previously stored cached statuses in cache . Upon receipt of updated status data from network cloud may send a communication of such status data to the access device .

However the process of cloud network requesting updated statuses from network devices and within network may cause latency within the system. More specifically the time required for cloud network to request updated statuses from network devices and and to in turn receive updated statuses from network devices and may be substantially greater than the time required for cloud network to send its currently stored statuses without being updated for network devices and to access device . For example of the total time required for access device to receive updated statuses from cloud network 80 or more of that total time may include cloud network requesting updated statuses from network devices and . On the other hand of the total time required for access device to receive updated statuses from cloud network 20 or more of that total time may include the status data being transmitted from cloud network to access device . Since a majority of the process required for access device to request and receive status data for network devices and is the transmission of data between cloud and network devices and the access device and cloud network may maximize efficiency by minimizing the effect of the transmission of data between cloud and network devices and on the whole process system.

In some embodiments the network device may include a WiFi enabled switch that connects home appliances and other electronic devices to a compatible 802.11b g n ac WiFi network. The network device may thus allow users to locally or remotely turn devices on or off from anywhere program customized notifications and or change device status. The network device may further allow a user to create custom schedules or have devices respond to sunrise or sunset.

The network device includes a power switch that may be depressed in order to turn the network device on and off. In some embodiments a light source may be integrated with or located behind the power switch. For example a light emitting diode LED may be located on a circuit board under the power button . The light source may be illuminated when the network device is powered on and may not be illuminated when the network device is powered off.

The network device further includes a communications signal indicator . The signal indicator may indicate whether the network device has access to a communications signal such as a WiFi signal. For example the signal indicator may include a light source e.g. a LED that illuminates when the network device is connected to a communications signal. The light source may depict different colors or other characteristics e.g. flashing dimming or the like to indicate different levels of signal strength or mode of operation.

The network device includes a restore button . The restore button may allow a user to reset the network device to factory default settings. For example upon being depressed the restore button may cause all software on the device to be reset to the settings that the network device included when purchased from the manufacturer.

The network device further includes a plug and an outlet . The plug allows the network device to be plugged into a wall socket such as a socket providing 120V 220V or the like. In turn an appliance may be plugged into the outlet . Once the network device is registered according to the techniques described above an appliance plugged into the socket may be controlled by a user using an access device e.g. access device .

The network device further includes a relay . The relay is a switch that controls whether power is relayed from the plug to the outlet . The relay may be controlled either manually using the power button or remotely using wireless communication signals. For example when the power button is in an ON position the relay may be closed so that power is relayed from the plug to the outlet . When the power button is in an OFF position the relay may be opened so that current is unable to flow from the plug to the outlet . As another example an application or program running on an access device may transmit a signal that causes the relay to be opened or closed. For instance an access application may display a graphical interface on the access device that includes a power button. The user may tap or otherwise select the power button and the access application may send a communication signal e.g. over a WiFi network to the network device instructing the network device to open or close the relay .

The network device further includes flash memory and dynamic random access memory DRAM . The flash memory may be used to store instructions or code relating to an operating system one or more applications and any firmware. The flash memory may include nonvolatile memory so that any firmware or other program can be can updated. In the event the network device loses power information stored in the flash memory may be retained. The DRAM may store various other types of information needed to run the network device such as all runtime instructions or code.

The network device further includes a CPU Radio . The CPU Radio controls the operations of the network device . For example the CPU Radio may execute various applications or programs stored in the flash memory and or the dynamic random access memory DRAM . The CPU Radio may also receive input from the various hardware and software components interpret the input and perform one or more functions in response to the input. As one example the CPU Radio may determine whether the power button has been pressed and determines whether the relay needs to be opened or closed. The CPU Radio may further perform all communications functions in order to allow the network device to communicate with other network devices one or more gateways a cloud network and or one or more access devices. While the CPU and radio of the network device are shown to be combined in the CPU Radio one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that in some embodiments the CPU and radio may be separately located within the network device . For example CPU circuitry may be situated at a separate location on a circuit board from the location of radio circuitry the CPU circuitry may be located on a different circuit board from the radio circuitry or the like. Further the network device may include multiple transceiver radios that are configured to communicate using one or more communication protocols such as any combination of a WiFi transceiver radio a Bluetooth transceiver radio a Zigbee transceiver radio a UWB transceiver radio a WiFi Direct transceiver radio a BLE transceiver radio and or any other wireless network transceiver radio or interface. For example the network device may include a single transceiver radio for each frequency band of one or more of the communication protocols e.g. a single 5 GHz transceiver radio and a single 2.4 GHz transceiver radio or the like . As another example the network device may include two or more transceiver radios for each frequency band of one or more of the communication protocols e.g. two 5 GHz transceiver radios and a two 2.4 GHz transceiver radios or the like . In examples in which the network device includes multiple transceiver radios for a frequency band of a communication protocol the network device may communicate using multiple channels up to the number of transceiver radios of the frequency band at any given point in time. In some embodiments the network device does not include a cellular network transceiver radio or interface and thus may not be configured to directly communicate with a cellular network. In some embodiments the network device may include a cellular network transceiver radio and may be configured to communicate with a cellular network using the cellular network transceiver radio.

The network device may communicate with other devices and or networks via antenna . For example antenna may include a 2.4 GHz antenna a 5 GHz antenna or the like that can transmit and receive WiFi communications signals. The network device may include other types of antennas that can communicate Bluetooth signals Zigbee signals Ultra Wideband UWB signals WiFi Direct signals BLE signals and or the like. In some embodiments the antenna may be configured to communicate different types of signals such as the WiFi signals Bluetooth signals Zigbee signals UWB signals WiFi Direct signals BLE signals and or the like. In some embodiments the network device may include multiple antennas for communicating the different types of communication signals. As one example the network device may include both a 2.4 GHz antenna and a 5 GHz antenna.

The network device further includes a driver a switching power supply and a voltage regulator . The driver may include instructions or code that can be used to translate control signals or commands received from applications running on the DRAM to commands that the various hardware components in the network device can understand. In some embodiments the driver may include an ambient application running on the DRAM . The switching power supply may be used to transfer power from the outlet in which the plug is connected to the various loads of the network device e.g. CPU Radio . The switching power supply may efficiently convert the voltage and current characteristics of the electrical power to a level that is appropriate for the components of the network device . For example the switching power supply may perform AC DC conversion. In some embodiments the switching power supply may be used to control the power that is relayed from the plug to the outlet . The voltage regulator may be used to convert the voltage output from the switching power supply to a lower voltage usable by the CPU Radio . For example the voltage regulator may regulate the DC voltage from 5V to 3.3V.

In various embodiments functions may be stored as one or more computer program products such as instructions or code in a non transitory machine readable storage medium such as the flash memory and or the DRAM . The network device can also comprise software elements e.g. located within the memory including for example an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs implementing the functions provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the processes discussed above for example as described with respect to may be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer in an aspect then such code and or instructions can be used to configure and or adapt a general purpose computer or other device to perform one or more operations in accordance with the described methods. Such functions or code may include code to perform the steps described above with respect to . The memory such as the flash memory and or the DRAM may be a processor readable memory and or a computer readable memory that stores software code programming code instructions etc. configured to cause a processor s within the CPU Radio to perform the functions described. In other embodiments one or more of the functions described may be performed in hardware.

A set of these instructions and or code might be stored on a non transitory machine readable storage medium such as the flash memory and or the DRAM . In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such as the CPU Radio . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system e.g. a removable medium such as a compact disc and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program configure and or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code which is executable by the network device and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the network device e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

Substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection to other access or computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

It should be appreciated that the network device may have other components than those depicted in . Further the embodiment shown in the figures are only one example of a network device that may incorporate an embodiment of the invention. In some other embodiments network device may have more or fewer components than shown in the figure may combine two or more components or may have a different configuration or arrangement of components.

The network video capture device may include one or more wireless transceivers connected to the bus . The wireless transceiver may be operable to receive wireless signals via antenna e.g. signal . The wireless signal may be transmitted via a wireless network. In some embodiments the wireless network may be any wireless network such as a local area network e.g. local area network or including but not limited to a WiFi network a Personal Access Network PAN including but not limited to a Bluetooth PAN a Zigbee PAN or the like or a wide area network including but not limited to a cellular network e.g. a GSM WCDMA LTE CDMA2000 network a cloud network the Internet or other network. Wireless transceiver may be configured to receive various radio frequency RF signals e.g. signal via antenna from one or more gateways network devices access devices other network video capture devices cloud networks and or the like. Network video capture device may also be configured to decode and or decrypt via the DSP and or processor s various signals received from one or more gateways network devices access devices other network video capture devices cloud networks and or the like. The network video capture device can be accessed controlled and or configured directly via an interface of the network video capture device e.g. an application a proprietary program or any other program executed and operated by the network video capture device or remotely using an interface of a network device or an access device e.g. an application a web browser a proprietary program or any other program executed and operated by the network device or the access device .

The network video capture device may further include one or more lenses one or more shutters and one or more blocking mechanisms . The lenses may receive light that reflects off of one or more objects in an environment and may bend the light to direct the light into the network video capture device . In some embodiments the network video capture device includes a single lens. In some embodiments the network video capture device includes multiple lenses. The shutter may be located between the lens and a local storage device. The shutter may operate to open to allow the light reflected by the lens to reach the storage device. The shutter may then close once the light has been captured by the storage device. The storage device may include any device that can record the light as one or more video images. For example the storage device may include a digital storage device a film or any other appropriate storage device. The storage device may be included in the memory or may be a different storage device not shown . In some embodiments the recorded video images may be transmitted to one or more remote storage devices using antenna . In some embodiments the network video capture device may include one or more infrared IR blasters not shown for sending IR commands to one or more devices.

A one or more blocking mechanisms can be controlled to selectively block the one or more lenses from capturing video images. In some embodiments the network video capture device includes a single blocking mechanism. In some embodiments the network video capture device includes multiple blocking mechanisms. For example the network video capture device may include multiple lenses and a separate blocking mechanism may be used to block each lens. In some embodiments a single blocking mechanism may be used to block more than one lens of a network video camera. The blocking mechanism is a visible object that provides visible and physical feedback that the lens is clearly blocked from capturing video images. In some examples the blocking mechanism may be part of a casing surrounding the network video capture device . For example the casing itself may be movable and can be moved to cover the lens . As another example the casing may be stationary and the network video capture device or the lens may be moved so that the lens is covered by the casing. In some examples the blocking mechanism may be a movable piece of material separate from the casing of the network video capture device . In such examples the piece of material can be moved back and forth to cover the lens . In some examples the blocking mechanism may be built into the lens . For example the lens may include a material that changes its light transmission properties e.g. turns opaque translucent or clear depending on the material when a current voltage or heat is applied to the material as described above. The material may include an electro chromic material a thermo chromic material a photo chromic material a suspended particle type of material a micro blind material or a liquid crystal device. While specific examples are given one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the one or more blocking mechanisms may include any suitable physical and visible object for covering the lens . The one or more blocking mechanisms may be controlled using any appropriate controlling device. For example the one or more blocking mechanisms may be controlled using a motor e.g. servo motor an electromagnetic motor or the like a spring with a latch e.g. a magnetic latch one or more metal plates that contract upon being electrically charged a combination thereof or any other appropriate means by which the blocking mechanism can be moved.

The network video capture device may further include and or be in communication with one or more non transitory machine readable storage mediums or storage devices e.g. memory which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device a solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data storage including without limitation various file systems database structures and or the like.

In various embodiments functions may be stored as one or more computer program products such as instructions or code in memory such as RAM ROM FLASH or disc drive and executed by processor s or DSP . The network video capture device can also comprise software elements e.g. located within the memory including for example an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs implementing the functions provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the processes discussed above for example as described with respect to may be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer in an aspect then such code and or instructions can be used to configure and or adapt a general purpose computer or other device to perform one or more operations in accordance with the described methods. Such functions or code may include code to perform the steps described above with respect to . The memory may be a non transitory machine readable storage medium processor readable memory and or a computer readable memory that stores the one or more computer program products configured to cause the processor s to perform the functions described. In other embodiments one or more of the functions described may be performed in hardware.

A set of these instructions and or code might be stored on a non transitory machine readable storage medium such as the memory . In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system. In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system e.g. a removable medium such as a compact disc and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program configure and or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions of one or more computer program products might take the form of executable code which is executable by the network video capture device and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the network video capture device e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

The access device may include one or more wireless transceivers connected to the bus . The wireless transceiver may be operable to receive wireless signals via antenna e.g. signal . The wireless signal may be transmitted via a wireless network. In some embodiments the wireless network may be any wireless network including but not limited to a local area network e.g. local area network or such as WiFi a Personal Access Network PAN such as Bluetooth or Zigbee or a wide area network such as a cellular network e.g. a GSM WCDMA LTE CDMA2000 network a cloud network the Internet or other network. Wireless transceiver may be configured to receive various radio frequency RF signals e.g. signal via antenna from one or more gateways network devices other access devices cloud networks and or the like. Access device may also be configured to decode and or decrypt via the DSP and or processor s various signals received from one or more gateways network devices other access devices cloud networks and or the like.

The access device may further include and or be in communication with one or more non transitory machine readable storage mediums or storage devices e.g. memory which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device a solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data storage including without limitation various file systems database structures and or the like.

In various embodiments functions may be stored as one or more computer program products such as instructions or code in memory such as RAM ROM FLASH or disc drive and executed by processor s or DSP . The access device can also comprise software elements e.g. located within the memory including for example an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs implementing the functions provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems as described herein. The memory may be a non transitory machine readable storage medium processor readable memory and or a computer readable memory that stores the one or more computer program products configured to cause the processor s to perform various functions. In other embodiments one or more of the functions may be performed in hardware.

A set of these instructions and or code might be stored on a non transitory machine readable storage medium such as the memory . In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system. In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system e.g. a removable medium such as a compact disc and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program configure and or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions of one or more computer program products might take the form of executable code which is executable by the access device and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the access device e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

The server may further include and or be in communication with one or more non transitory machine readable storage mediums or storage devices e.g. memory which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device a solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data storage including without limitation various file systems database structures and or the like.

In various embodiments functions may be stored as one or more one or more computer program products such as instructions or code in memory . The server can also comprise software elements e.g. located within the memory including for example an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs implementing the functions provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement various methods and or configure various systems. The memory may be a non transitory machine readable storage medium processor readable memory and or a computer readable memory that stores the one or more computer program products configured to cause the processor s to perform the various functions. In other embodiments one or more functions may be performed in hardware.

The gateway includes hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . In one embodiment the bus can be used for the processor s to communicate between cores and or with the memory . The hardware elements may include one or more processors including without limitation one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processing chips graphics acceleration processors and or the like one or more input devices which can include without limitation one or more buttons a keyboard a keypad a touch sensitive screen a touch pad and or the like and one or more output devices which can include without limitation a display light or sound indicators and or the like.

The gateway may include one or more wireless transceivers and connected to the bus . The wireless transceiver may be operable to receive wireless signals e.g. a wireless signal via an antenna . The wireless transceivers may be operable to receive wireless signals e.g. a wireless signal via an antenna . The wireless transceivers and may each include a transceiver radio designed to transmit and receive signals using frequencies of a specific frequency band. For example wireless transceiver may include a 2.4 GHz WiFi transceiver radio circuit and wireless transceiver may include a 5 GHz WiFi transceiver radio circuit. Accordingly the gateway may include a single transceiver radio circuit for a first frequency band and a single transceiver radio circuit for a second frequency band. In some embodiments the gateway may include multiple wireless transceivers not shown for each available frequency band. The antennas and may include multiple band antennas that can transmit and or receive signals over different frequency bands.

The gateway may further include radio frequency RF circuit . In some embodiments the wireless transceivers and may be integrated with or coupled to the RF circuit so that the RF circuit includes the wireless transceivers and . In some embodiments the wireless transceivers and and the RF circuit are separate components. The RF circuit may include a RF amplifier that may amplify signals received over antennas and . The RF circuit may also include a power controller that may be used to adjust signal amplification by the RF amplifier. The power controller may be implemented using hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

The wireless signals and may be transmitted via a wireless network. In some embodiments the wireless network may be any wireless network including but not limited to a local area network e.g. local area network or such as WiFi a Personal Access Network PAN such as Bluetooth or Zigbee or a wide area network such as a cellular network e.g. a GSM WCDMA LTE CDMA2000 network a cloud network the Internet or other network. Wireless transceivers and may be configured to receive various radio frequency RF signals e.g. signals and via antennas and respectively from one or more other gateways access devices network devices cloud networks and or the like. Gateway may also be configured to decode and or decrypt via the DSP and or processor s various signals received from one or more gateways network devices cloud networks and or the like.

The gateway may include a power supply not shown that can power the various components of the gateway . The power supply may include a switch mode power supply a linear power supply a push pull power supply or any other suitable type of power supply. In some embodiments the gateway may include multiple power supplies. For example a switch mode power supply may be used to condition input power and a linear power supply may be used to power the RF circuit . The power supply may be configured to operate over various ranges of appropriate input voltages.

The gateway may further include and or be in communication with one or more non transitory machine readable storage mediums or storage devices e.g. memory which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device a solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data storage including without limitation various file systems database structures and or the like.

In various embodiments functions may be stored as one or more computer program products such as instructions or code in memory such as RAM ROM FLASH or disc drive and executed by processor s or DSP . The gateway can also comprise software elements e.g. located within the memory including for example an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs implementing the functions provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems as described herein. The memory may be a non transitory machine readable storage medium processor readable memory and or a computer readable memory that stores the one or more computer program products configured to cause the processor s to perform various functions. In other embodiments one or more of the functions described may be performed in hardware.

A set of these instructions and or code might be stored on a non transitory machine readable storage medium such as the memory . In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system. In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system e.g. a removable medium such as a compact disc and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program configure and or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions of one or more computer program products might take the form of executable code which is executable by the gateway and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the gateway e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

Substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection to other access or computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

In the foregoing specification aspects of the invention are described with reference to specific embodiments thereof but those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is not limited thereto. Various features and aspects of the above described invention may be used individually or jointly. Further embodiments can be utilized in any number of environments and applications beyond those described herein without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the specification. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

In the foregoing description for the purposes of illustration methods were described in a particular order. It should be appreciated that in alternate embodiments the methods may be performed in a different order than that described. It should also be appreciated that the methods described above may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in sequences of machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a machine such as a general purpose or special purpose processor or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the methods. These machine executable instructions may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums such as CD ROMs or other type of optical disks floppy diskettes ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions. Alternatively the methods may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.

Where components are described as being configured to perform certain operations such configuration can be accomplished for example by designing electronic circuits or other hardware to perform the operation by programming programmable electronic circuits e.g. microprocessors or other suitable electronic circuits to perform the operation or any combination thereof.

While illustrative embodiments of the application have been described in detail herein it is to be understood that the inventive concepts may be otherwise variously embodied and employed and that the appended claims are intended to be construed to include such variations except as limited by the prior art.

