---

title: Methods and devices for providing companion services to video
abstract: Methods and devices for providing companion services to video are described. In one example embodiment, the method includes: identifying text contained within a video; determining, by performing pattern matching, if the identified text in the video contains actionable text; and if the identified text in the video contains actionable text, providing access to one or more features based on the actionable text.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648268&OS=09648268&RS=09648268
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09648268
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20140930
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 583 300 which published as US 2013 0326552 A1. U.S. application Ser. No. 13 583 300 was a 371 of international application number PCT CA2012 050368. The contents of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to video content and more particularly to methods and devices for providing companion services to complement such video content.

Videos such as television shows movies commercials and sporting events often include content which may be actionable by a user. That is such videos may include content which a user is permitted or capable of acting upon. For example a video may include a telephone number which a user may place a call to using a telephone. Similarly a video may include a website address which a user may visit.

Often when the user wants to act upon the actionable content they must recollect some information about the actionable content. For example if a user wishes to place a telephone call to a phone number displayed in a video they may need to recollect the phone number in order to place the call to the phone number. Similarly when a website address is displayed in a video the user may need to recollect the website address to input the website address into a web browser in order to navigate to the website.

Users sometimes have difficulty acting upon actionable content displayed in a video since such content is often only displayed briefly to the user and may be easily forgotten.

In one example embodiment a method performed by a processor is described. The method includes identifying text contained within a video determining by performing pattern matching if the identified text in the video contains actionable text and if the identified text in the video contains actionable text providing access to one or more features based on the actionable text.

In another example embodiment a companion device is described. The companion device includes a display and a short range communications subsystem for providing a video to a media display device for playback on the media display device. The companion device also includes a processor coupled to the display and the short range communications subsystem. The processor is configured to identify text contained within a video determine by performing pattern matching if the identified text in the video contains actionable text and if the identified text in the video contains actionable text provide access to one or more features based on the actionable text.

In another example embodiment a media display device is described. The media display device includes a display for displaying a video and a short range communications subsystem for sending a command to a companion device to instruct the companion device to provide access to one or more features based on actionable text identified in a video. The media display device also includes a processor coupled to the display and the short range communications subsystem. The processor is configured to identify text contained within a video determine by performing pattern matching if the identified text in the video contains actionable text and if the identified text in the video contains actionable text provide access to one or more features based on the actionable text.

In another example embodiment a method performed by a processor is described. The method includes determining if a video includes an actionable object and if the video includes an actionable object providing access to one or more companion features based on the actionable object.

In another example embodiment a companion device is described. The companion device includes a display and a short range communications subsystem for providing a video to a media display device for playback on the media display device. The companion device also includes a processor coupled to the display and the short range communications subsystem. The processor is configured to determine if a video includes an actionable object and if the video includes an actionable object provide access to one or more companion features based on the actionable object. In yet another example embodiment a media display device is described. The media display device includes a display for displaying a video and a short range communications subsystem for sending a command to a companion device to instruct the companion device to provide access to one or more features based on an actionable object identified in a video. The media display device also includes a processor coupled to the display and the short range communications subsystem. The processor is configured to determine if a video includes an actionable object and if the video includes an actionable object provide access to one or more companion features based on the actionable object.

Other example embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed descriptions in conjunction with the drawings.

Referring now to a block diagram of a system for providing companion services for a video is displayed. The system includes a media display device . The media display device is configured to display videos on a display associated with the media display device . The videos are in some example embodiments television programs. However the videos may be of other types including for example movies sporting events commercials music videos user generated and or user uploaded videos such as YouTube videos etc.

While the example of illustrates the media display device using a single block in practice the media display device may include a plurality of interconnected components. In some example embodiments the media display device may include a television. The television may include a display to which the television may output videos. In some example embodiments the media display device may also include one or more receivers which may be internal or external to the television. The receiver may be configured to receive video signals from an access network such as a cable television system other types of access networks and video sources will be described in greater detail below . The receiver may take the form of a set top box STB . A set top box is a receiver which is external to a television and which is connected to the television typically via a wired connector. The set top box may be configured to receive a video signal from an access network to decrypt and or otherwise process the video signal and to output video included in the received video signal to the television.

In some example embodiments the media display device may take the form of a smart television TV . A smart TV is a television which offers more advanced computing ability and or connectivity than a basic non smart television. The smart TV may be a television with integrated Internet capabilities. That is the smart TV may be configured to provide access to Internet based services.

In some example embodiments the media display device may include a monitor which may be connected to a computer system. The computer system may for example act as a receiver and receive signals which include videos from an access network . The media display device may take other forms apart from those specifically recited herein in other example embodiments.

The system includes a companion device . As will be described in greater detail below in some example embodiments the companion device is configured to provide companion features for a video displayed on the media display device . More particularly the companion device may be configured to in at least one operating mode provide access to one or more features such as one or more applications associated with the companion device when video displayed on the media display device includes actionable text.

For example in one operating mode while video is displayed on a display of the media display device companion features may be provided on the companion device based on the content of the video. For example text may be identified in the video and pattern matching may be performed on the text to determine if the identified text contains actionable text. That is pattern matching may be performed to determine whether the video contains displayable text of one or more predetermined type. If text of the predetermined types is included in the video the video may be said to include actionable text.

Actionable text is text of a type having a feature on the companion device associated therewith. When such actionable text is identified access may be provided to the feature associated with the actionable text.

By way of further example in some example embodiments if a phone number is contained in the video a selectable option to initiate a telephone call to the phone number may be provided on the companion device . For example an option to call the phone number may be displayed on a display associated with the companion device. By way of example when a user is watching a television show such as American Idol which allows the user to place a call to a phone number to vote the user may be presented with a selectable option to place a phone call to the phone number. This allows a user to place a call to a telephone number which was contained as displayable text in a video without having to manually input the phone number into their phone. The user is simply presented with a selectable option to place the phone call on the companion device . Selection of the selectable option may be performed by a user using an input interface such as a touchscreen. Such selection causes the companion device to initiate a telephone call to the phone number.

By way of further example in some example embodiments if a web address such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL is identified in the video a selectable option to navigate to the web page may be provided on the companion device or the companion device may automatically navigate to the web address identified in the video. Similarly in some example embodiments if an email address or other electronic messaging address is identified in the video a selectable option to compose an email message or other electronic message having a recipient address field populated with the email address or other electronic messaging address may be provided on the companion device .

By way of further example in some example embodiments if a geographic address is identified in the video then the companion device may provide access to one or more geographic features on the companion device such as one or more geographic applications on the companion device . In some example embodiments a selectable option to display a map associated with the geographic address option may be provided on the companion device . For example such an option may be displayed on the display of the companion device and may be selected with one or more input interfaces such as a touchscreen display associated with the companion device . In other example embodiments the companion device may automatically display a map associated with the geographic address if a geographic address is identified in the text of the video. In some example embodiments a mapping application associated with the companion device may be invoked and a map associated with the geographic address displayed. In some example embodiments the mapping application may be a remote application and in some example embodiments the map may be displayed within a web browser of the companion device . In some example embodiments the mapping application may be Google Maps Bing Maps or another web based mapping application.

In some example embodiments if a geographic address is identified in the video then the companion device may provide a selectable option to display directions to the geographic address. Similarly in some example embodiments if a geographic address is identified in the video then the companion device may automatically provide directions to the geographic address. Such directions may for example be provided from a default location such as a user s home location or may be provided from a location determined from a location sensor associated with the companion device such as a Global Positioning System GPS sensor associated with the companion device .

In some example embodiments if contact information is identified in the video then the companion device may provide a selectable option to store the contact information in an address book associated with the companion device . In example embodiments disclosed herein contact information can be information e.g. phone numbers addresses email addresses and other information used to contact a person or an organization e.g. a business organization political organization social organization educational organization or other organization . That is a selectable option to create a contact record based on the contact information may be provided. The address book may in some example embodiments be a database which is used for storing contact information for contacts associated with a user of the companion device .

In some example embodiments if a date is identified in the video then the companion device may provide access to one or more date features on the companion device . In some example embodiments when a date is identified in the video then the companion device may provide a selectable option to create a calendar event based on the date. The calendar event may for example be a meeting request reminder or alarm which is associated with a specific date and or time.

When a user selects the selectable option to create the calendar event the companion device may include other data from the frame of the video which included the date when creating the calendar event. In some example embodiments the calendar event may be created to include in the calendar event a screenshot of the frame which included the date. The screenshot may for example be embedded into a body portion of the calendar event. Similarly in some example embodiments when the companion device creates the calendar event it may automatically populate one or more fields of the calendar event with other text i.e. text that is not the date included in the frame of the video which included the date or text included in other nearby frames of the video e.g. frames which are shortly before or shortly after the frame including the date . For example a subject field of the calendar event and or a body portion of the calendar event may be populated with such text.

Similarly when a user selects the selectable option to store contact information in an address book associated with the companion device the companion device may include other data from the frame of the video which included the contact information when creating the contact record. In some example embodiments the contact record may be created to include a screenshot of the frame which included the contact information. For example when the companion device creates the contact record it may automatically populate a field in the contact record for storing a picture of the contact with the screenshot of the frame which included the contact information.

Similarly the companion device may be configured to in at least one operating mode provide access to one or more features such as one or more applications associated with the companion device when video displayed on the media display device includes an actionable object. In some example embodiments a displayable object may be identified in the video and an image based search may be performed using the displayable object to determine if the displayable object is an actionable object. In some example embodiments an actionable object does not include any text.

An actionable object is a displayable object having a feature on the companion device associated therewith. When such an actionable object is identified access may be provided to the feature associated with the actionable object. In some example embodiments an actionable object may be a famous person such as for example an actor or a historical figure . In some such example embodiments facial recognition may be performed on a displayable object and if the displayable object is found to correspond to a famous person having a companion feature associated therewith then access to the companion feature may be provided. The companion feature may for example display information about the person. For example the companion feature may display a date of birth or date of death. In some example embodiments where the person is an actor a list of credits may be displayed. The list of credits may list other videos such as other movies or television shows in which the actor has appeared.

In some example embodiments an actionable object may be associated with a particular location such as for example a city or a feature of a location. That is in some example embodiments an image based search may be performed to identify a location or location feature represented in the video. For example an image based search may be performed to determine whether one or more features of the location displayed in the video correspond to one or more features stored in a location features database. That is a building or other feature of a particular location may be identified. In the example embodiments disclosed herein a feature of a particular location can be for example a skyline a landmark a golf course hole and a natural feature e.g. the Lone Cypress Tree or Niagara Falls . In some example embodiments when a location feature is identified then access to a companion feature associated with the location in which the feature is located may be provided. The companion feature may for example provide information about the location or the location feature such as a city population a map illustrating where at the location the feature is located a map illustrating population density a list of recent and upcoming events recommendations for hotels or tourist attractions etc.

Similarly in some example embodiments an actionable object may be a representation of a product. That is in some example embodiments an image based search may be performed to identify a product displayed in video. The product may be an article or substance which is manufactured or refined for sale. By way of example the product may be a garment consumer electronic device food product etc. When a product is identified a companion feature associated with that product may be provided. The companion feature may for example provide a user with information about the product such as the name of the product manufacturer retail information etc. . The companion feature may for example provide a user with an option to purchase the product.

In some example embodiments an actionable object may be a bar code e.g. a quick Response QR code or a universal product code UPC code or other bar code .

The companion device may be connected to the media display device over a connection . The connection allows data to be sent between the companion device and the media display device . For example as will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to in some example embodiments a video may be transmitted from the companion device to the media display device via the connection . That is the media display device may in some example embodiments receive the video via the connection . In other example embodiments the connection may be used to allow the media display device to send instructions to the companion device when the media display device identifies actionable text and or actionable objects in a video. That is in some example embodiments the media display device may analyze the video to determine whether the video contains actionable text or an actionable object. If actionable text is located the media display device may send a command to the companion device from the media display device instructing the companion device to provide access to the one or more features based on the actionable text. If an actionable object is located then the media display device may send a command to the companion device from the media display device instructing the companion device to provide access to the one or more features based on the actionable object.

The connection may include one or more cables links or media interfaces. The connection between the media display device and the companion device may in some example embodiments be a wired connection. In some example embodiments the connection may be a High Definition Media Interface HDMI connection.

In some example embodiments the connection may be a wireless connection. In some example embodiments the media display device and the companion device may be equipped with short range communication subsystems which allow the media display device and the companion device to communicate wirelessly over a wireless connection. In some example embodiments the media display device may connect directly to the companion device via a Wi Fi connection. Similarly in some example embodiments the media display device may connect to the companion device via a Bluetooth connection. Accordingly in some example embodiments the media display device may be configured to communicate with the companion device via short range communication technology. That is a short range connection may be established between the media display device and the companion device .

The connection may in some example embodiments be an indirect connection. In some example embodiments the companion device and the media display device may connect to one another via a network such as the Internet or an intranet. Each of the companion device and the media display device may be configured to connect to the network. Data may be sent between the companion device and the media display device via the network by using unique identifiers such as an Internet Protocol IP addresses associated with the companion device and or the media display device .

In the example embodiment illustrated the companion device is a tablet computer. A tablet computer which may also be referred to as a tablet is an electronic device which is generally larger than a mobile phone such as a smartphone or personal digital assistant. Many mobile phones or personal digital assistants are designed to be pocket sized. That is mobile phones or personal digital assistants are generally small enough to be carried by a person easily often in a shirt or pant pocket while tablet computers are larger and may not fit within pant pockets. For example many tablet computers have a height which is seven inches 7 or more. In some example embodiments the tablet computer may be a slate computer. A slate computer is a tablet computer which does not include a dedicated keyboard. A slate computer may allow for text input through the use of a virtual keyboard or an external keyboard which connects to the slate computer via a wired or wireless connection.

In other example embodiments the companion device may take other forms. In various example embodiments the companion device may be a multi mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computer such as a watch a PDA personal digital assistant a computer system such as a desktop netbook laptop or notebook computer system or another electronic device not specifically recited herein.

Videos may be provided to the media display device in a number of different ways. In some example embodiments the videos may be received from an access network to which the media display device connects. That is the media display device may be configured to connect directly to the access network to receive video directly through a connection . In some example embodiments the access network may be a television broadcast network. For example the access network may be a cable television system which delivers broadcast and or on demand videos primarily through wired transmission mediums such as fibre optic and or coaxial cables. In such example embodiments the media display device may for example include a connector such as a coaxial cable connector which connects the media display device to the cable television system through a connection which may for example be a cable or a network of cables which connects the media display device to a back end head end associated with the cable television system provider .

Similarly in some example embodiments the access network may be a satellite television system which delivers broadcast and or on demand videos through one or more satellites not shown . In such example embodiments the media display device may connect to the access network via a wireless connection . That is a satellite may wirelessly transmit videos to a receiver associated with the media display device . The receiver may for example include or be connected to a satellite dish which is directed at the satellite.

Similarly in some example embodiments the access network may be a terrestrial television system. The terrestrial television system may distribute videos by transmitting such videos as radio waves using antennas. That is the terrestrial television system may distribute videos to the media display device using a wireless connection . The terrestrial television system may in some example embodiments be referred to as an over the air OTA television system. In some example embodiments the media display device may include or be connected to one or more tuners which converts a radio frequency analog or digital television transmission into video. The tuner may be configured to operate according to one or more television standard such as Phase Alternating Line PAL National Television System Committee NTSC Advanced Television Systems Committee ATSC etc.

In some example embodiments the access network may be an Internet based video delivery system. In some example embodiments the access network may include one or more servers which store video content such as one or more web servers which connect to the media display device through an Internet provider. That is the media display device may connect to the Internet and may access one or more servers such as web servers operating in the access network which serve one or more videos. In some example embodiments the media display device may connect to one or more web servers such as YouTube through the Internet. The web servers may serve video to the media display device through the connection .

In other example embodiments the video may be provided to the media display device in another way which may not rely on the access network . In some example embodiments the media display device may include or be connected to a data store . The data store may store one or more videos and may provide such videos to the media display device . The data store may be any removable or non removable media which is capable of storing a video. In some example embodiments the data store may be an optical storage device such as a BlueRay or Digital Video Disk DVD player which receives an optical storage medium storing the video. In other example embodiments the data store may be a hard disk drive HDD or flash drive which stores the video. Other types of data stores may be used in other example embodiments.

Depending on the processing capabilities of the media display device and or the companion device and the manner by which the video is received at the media display device the analysis of the video to identify actionable text may be performed on the media display device the companion device or both. That is in some example embodiments the media display device may be configured to analyze video and to determine whether the video contains actionable text displayed in the video such as a phone number website address information network identifier such as a Twitter address and or hash tag geographic address date and or electronic messaging address and or to determine whether the video contains an actionable object displayed in the video such as for example a famous person location feature a product or a bar code .

In some such example embodiments where actionable text and or an actionable object is identified the media display device may provide access to one or more companion features on the companion device by sending a suitable command or instruction to the companion device instructing the companion device to provide access to the feature. For example where a phone number is identified the media display device may instruct the companion device to display a selectable option to initiate a telephone call to that phone number. Where a website address is identified the media display device may instruct the companion device to display a selectable option to navigate to the website address using a web browser. Where an email address is identified the media display device may instruct the companion device to provide a selectable option to compose an email having a recipient address field populated with the email address. Similarly where a geographic address is identified the media display device may instruct the companion device to provide a selectable option to display a map associated with the geographic address or may instruct the companion device to automatically display a map associated with the geographic address. In some example embodiments if contact information is identified the media display device may instruct the companion device to provide a selectable option to store the contact information in an address book. Similarly in some example embodiments if a date is identified the media display device may instruct the companion device to provide a selectable option to create a calendar event based on the date.

Similarly if a famous person is identified the media display device may instruct the companion device to provide a selectable option to display information for that person such as a list of credits a date of birth date of death or other biographical information . If the video contains an object associated with a location or a feature of a location such as a building or skyline associated with the location then the media display device may instruct the companion device to provide a selectable option to display information associated with that location or location feature such as city population a map illustrating where at the location a building is located a map illustrating population density a list of recent and upcoming events recommendations for hotels or tourist attractions etc. Similarly if a known product is identified in the video then the media display device may instruct the companion device to provide a selectable option to display information associated with the product and or to provide a selectable option to purchase the product. If a bar code is identified in the video then the media display device may instruct the companion device to provide a selectable option to scan the bar code and display information associated with the bar code.

In other example embodiments the video may be analyzed on the companion device . That is the companion device may analyze the video to identify actionable text and or actionable objects displayed in the video and may provide access to companion features such as the companion features described above when actionable text and or actionable objects are identified.

While illustrates an example embodiment in which the video is received at the media display device via a connection to the access network or the data store in other example embodiments the video may be received at the media display device via the connection with the companion device . For example the video may be streamed from the companion device to the media display device over the connection . Referring now to one such example embodiment is illustrated.

In the example embodiment of the video is transmitted from the companion device to the media display device over the connection between these devices. In some example embodiments the companion device may stream the video to the media display device over the connection . In some example embodiments the companion device may act as a media player for the media display device . The media display device may act as a passive display device displaying a video signal received from the companion device .

The companion device may be provided with the video from any one of a number of different sources. In some example embodiments the videos may be received from a network to which the companion device connects. That is the companion device may be configured to connect to a network to receive video through a connection . The network in some example embodiments includes the Internet. More particularly in some example embodiments the companion device may receive the video from one or more Internet based content servers such as one or more web servers which are configured for delivery of video. In some example embodiments the video may be received at the companion device from a Netflix or Youtube server.

The connection which connects the companion device to the network may be a wired connection a wireless connection or a combination thereof. In some example embodiments the connection may be a Wi Fi connection. In some example embodiments the connection may be a 3G 4G or other type of data connection.

In other example embodiments the video may be provided to the companion device in another way which may not rely on the network . In some example embodiments the companion device may include or be connected to a data store . The data store may store one or more videos. The companion device may be connected to the data store to receive videos from the data store . In some example embodiments the data store may be internal memory of the companion device such as for example internal flash memory. In other example embodiments the data store may be external to the companion device . For example the data store may be removable memory such as a removable flash card or stick.

In some example embodiments the companion device may provide the video to the media display device through the connection between those devices and may also analyze the video to identify actionable text such as a phone number website address information network identifier such as a Twitter address and or hash tag geographic address date electronic messaging address etc. and or actionable objects such as for example famous persons location features products and bar codes contained therein. When actionable text is identified the companion device may provide access to a feature of the companion device associated with the actionable text. For example when a phone number is identified the companion device may provide access to a phone related feature for example it may provide a selectable option to place a call to the phone number. Where a website address is identified the companion device may display a selectable option to navigate to the website address using a web browser. Where an email address is identified the companion device may provide a selectable option to compose an email having a recipient address field populated with the email address. Similarly where a geographic address is identified the companion device may provide a selectable option to display a map associated with the geographic address or may automatically display a map associated with the geographic address. In some example embodiments if contact information is identified the companion device may provide a selectable option to store the contact information in an address book. Similarly in some example embodiments if a date is identified the companion device may provide a selectable option to create a calendar event based on the date. Similarly if an information network identifier such as a Twitter address and or hash tag is identified the companion device may provide a selectable option to access the information network associated with the information network identifier such as for example a selectable option to follow a person associated with the information network identifier e.g. to follow a specific Twitter user a selectable option to view micro blog entries associated with the information network identifier e.g. to view Tweets associated with a specific Twitter user and or a selectable option to search an information network using the information network identifier e.g. to search Twitter using a specific hash tag .

Similarly if a famous person is identified the companion device may display a selectable option to display information for that person such as a list of credits a date of birth date of death or other biographical information or may automatically display such information. If the video contains an object associated with a location or a location feature such as a city such as a building or skyline associated with the location then the companion device may display a selectable option to display information associated with that location or location feature such as a city population a map illustrating where a building is located a map illustrating population density a list of recent and upcoming events recommendations for hotels or tourist attractions etc. or may automatically display such information. Similarly if a known product is identified in the video then the companion device may display a selectable option to display information associated with the product and or to provide a selectable option to purchase the product. If a bar code is identified in the video then the companion device may display a selectable option to scan the bar code and display information associated with the bar code.

An overview having been provided reference will now be made to which illustrates an example companion device .

In the illustrated example embodiment the companion device is a mobile communication device. In some example embodiments the mobile communication device is a two way communication device having data and possibly voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the internet. However in other example embodiments the companion device may be of a type not specifically listed above.

The companion device of includes a housing not shown which houses components of the companion device . Internal components of the companion device may be constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The companion device includes a controller including at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the companion device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including one or more input interfaces such as a keyboard one or more control buttons one or more microphones and or a touch sensitive overlay associated with a touchscreen display flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port one or more output interfaces such as a display which may be a liquid crystal display LCD one or more speakers or other output interfaces a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The companion device may include a touchscreen display in some example embodiments. The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller. The touch sensitive input surface overlays the display and may be referred to as a touch sensitive overlay. The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. That is the touchscreen display acts as both an input interface and an output interface .

The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the companion device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter as is known in the art. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the companion device is intended to operate.

The companion device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The companion device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The companion device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a pointing or navigational tool input device such as a clickable trackball or scroll wheel or thumbwheel or a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the companion device such as receipt of an electronic message or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some example embodiments the companion device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory and a memory module interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the companion device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory module for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module may be inserted in or connected to the memory module interface of the companion device .

The companion device may store data in an erasable persistent memory which in some example embodiments is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data may include service data having information required by the companion device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the companion device by its user and other data.

In some example embodiments the data may include video. That is in some example embodiments the video may be stored on the memory of the companion device . The memory may act as the data store described above with reference to . However as noted in the discussion of above in other example embodiments the video may be stored elsewhere.

The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the companion device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases or data stores each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the companion device memory.

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system. The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the companion device by providing for information or software downloads to the companion device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the companion device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some example embodiments the companion device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their companion device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the companion device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer for processing.

The companion device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the companion device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the companion device .

The short range communication subsystem provides for communication between the companion device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communication subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices. In some example embodiments the short range communication subsystem may be configured for Wi Fi communications.

As noted in the discussion of above the short range communication subsystem may permit the companion device to communicate with the media display device . In some example embodiments a video may be transmitted to or from the companion device via the short range communication subsystem . Similarly in some example embodiments one or more instructions or commands may be received over the short range communication subsystem .

In some example embodiments another component of the companion device may be used for communications between the companion device and the media display device . For example as noted above in some example embodiments the connection between the devices may be a wired connector such as an HDMI connector. Accordingly in some example embodiments other components of the companion device such as an auxiliary I O may be used for communications between the companion device and the media display device .

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications may be installed on the companion device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to an operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the companion device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable device subsystems . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory e.g. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules may include operating system software and one or more additional applications or modules such as for example a companion services module and or a video delivery module . In the example embodiment of the companion services module and the video delivery module are illustrated as separate stand alone applications but in other example embodiments these modules could be implemented as part of the operating system or another application and or provided in a single software module which provides the functions of both the companion services module and also the video delivery module . Furthermore the functions of any one or more of the companion services module and or the video delivery module could be split up and provided by a plurality of modules.

In some example embodiments the video delivery module is configured to deliver video to the media display device . The video may in some example embodiments be retrieved by the companion device from a local or remote data store and may in some example embodiments be obtained from a web server connected to a network . The video delivery module may in some example embodiments be delivered to the media display device in a streaming fashion. That is the video may be delivered as a steady continuous stream allowing playback to proceed while subsequent data is being sent from the companion device and received at the media display device .

As discussed above the video may be delivered to the media display device using other techniques in other example embodiments. Accordingly the video delivery module may be excluded in some example embodiments.

In some example embodiments the companion services module is configured to provide a user of the companion device with access to companion services on the companion device . Companion services are services which complement a video. More particularly companion services may be one or more features associated with the companion device which may use or rely on actionable text or actionable objects displayed in the video. Actionable text is text which may be acted upon. By way of example actionable text may be a phone number a date an address such as an electronic messaging address e.g. an email address information network identifier such as a Twitter address and or hash tag a geographic address a website address etc. As discussed earlier in this disclosure actionable objects are objects which are displayed in the video and which may be acted upon. Such objects may be known in that they are represented in an actionable object database.

When actionable text or actionable objects are included as displayable text or displayable objects in a video the companion device may provide access to one or more features of the companion device associated with such actionable text or actionable objects. For example when actionable text or an actionable object is identified in a video the companion services module may in some example embodiments provide a selectable option to access a feature associated with the actionable text or actionable object. The feature may depend on the specific nature of the identified text or object identified. For example when a phone number is identified the companion services module may provide access to a phone feature. For example a user may be presented with an option to place a phone call to the identified phone number. Selection of the selectable option to place a phone call to the identified number may cause a phone application associated with the companion device to be engaged and a phone call to be initiated to the phone number.

Similarly in some example embodiments when a website address is identified in the video the companion services module may display a selectable option to navigate to the identified website address. Selection of the selectable option to navigate to the website address may cause an Internet browser associated with the companion device to navigate to the identified website address. In some example embodiments a parameter may be added to the website address when navigating to the website address to allow a web server associated with the website address to associate access of the website with a referrer. That is an identifier associated with a referrer may be added to the website address which may be a URL . The identifier may be unique to a referrer to allow the web server to identify the referrer. The referrer may for example be the manufacturer and or distributor of the companion device and or a software developer associated with the companion services module . Tracking the referrer may for example allow the referrer to receive compensation from an operator of the web server for the referral.

Similarly in some example embodiments if an email address or other electronic messaging address is identified in the video the companion services module may display a selectable option to compose an email message or other electronic message having a recipient address field populated with the email address or other electronic messaging address . Selection of the selectable option may cause an electronic messaging application to be engaged to compose or send a message and the address field of the message may be automatically populated with the identified electronic messaging address.

By way of further example in some example embodiments if a geographic address is identified in the video then the companion services module may provide access to one or more geographic features on the companion device such as one or more geographic applications on the companion device . In some example embodiments the companion services module may display a selectable option to display a map associated with the geographic address. For example such an option may be displayed on the display of the companion device and may be selected with one or more input interfaces such as a touchscreen display associated with the companion device . In other example embodiments the companion device may automatically display a map associated with the geographic address if a geographic address is identified in the text of the video. In some example embodiments a mapping application associated with the companion device may be invoked and a map associated with the geographic address displayed. In some example embodiments the mapping application may be a remote application and the map may be displayed within a web browser of the companion device . In some example embodiments the mapping application may be Google Maps Bing Maps or another web based mapping application.

In some example embodiments if a geographic address is identified in the video then the companion device may provide a selectable option to display directions to the geographic address. Selection of the selectable option may cause a navigation application to be engaged and may cause the navigation application to generate directions to the identified geographic address. Such directions may for example be provided from a default location such as a user s home location or may be provided from a location determined from a location sensor associated with the companion device such as a Global Positioning System GPS sensor associated with the companion device .

In some example embodiments if contact information is identified in the video then the companion services module may provide a selectable option to store the contact information in an address book associated with the companion device . That is a selectable option to create a contact record based on the contact information may be provided. The address book may in some example embodiments be a database which is used for storing contact information such as phone numbers addresses email addresses and other information for contacts associated with a user of the companion device . Selection of the selectable option to store the address in the address book may cause an address book application to be engaged and or a contact record to be created based on the identified address.

In some example embodiments if a date is identified in the video then the companion services module may provide access to one or more date related features on the companion device . In some example embodiments when a date is identified in the video then the companion device may provide a selectable option to create a calendar event based on the date. The calendar event may for example be a meeting request reminder alarm etc. In some example embodiments selection of the selectable option to create a calendar event based on the date may cause a calendar application such as for example Microsoft Outlook to be engaged and a calendar event created based on the identified date. In some example embodiments after a calendar event is created when the appointed time is reached the calendar event may trigger a reminder on the companion device to remind a user of the companion device of the calendar event.

As noted previously if an object representing a famous person is identified the companion device may display a selectable option to provide access to one or more personal information providing features on the companion device . For example a selectable option to display information for that person such as a list of credits a date of birth date of death or other biographical information may be displayed.

Similarly if the video contains an object associated with a location or a location feature such as a building or skyline associated with the location then the companion device may display a selectable option to display information associated with that location or location feature such as a city population a map illustrating where at the location the feature is located a map illustrating population density a list of recent and upcoming events recommendations for hotels or tourist attractions etc. or may automatically display such information.

If a known product is identified in the video then the companion device may display a selectable option to display information associated with the product and or to provide a selectable option to purchase the product.

Similarly if a bar code is identified in the video then the companion device may display a selectable option to scan the bar code and display information associated with the bar code. Accordingly the companion services module may provide access to one or more companion services on the companion device . Such services may be provided by or rely on one or more application or module on the companion device such as a phone application not shown calendar application not shown address book application not shown electronic messaging application not shown or another application not specifically recited.

In some example embodiments in which the companion device has access to the video the companion services module may analyze the video to identify displayable text in the video and to determine whether any of the identified text in the video contains actionable text. For example the companion services module may perform pattern matching on the video to determine whether any of the identified text in the video appears to represent actionable text. Pattern matching may compare text strings to one or more predetermined templates associated with actionable text. In example embodiments disclosed herein actionable text may include characters that are alphabetic or non alphabetic e.g. numbers symbols such as and or punctuation marks such as . . For example a template for a website address may require that the address include www followed by a period followed by a text string followed by another period followed by another text string i.e. www.text string.text string . When identified text in the video matches this pattern then the companion services module may determine that the text is a website address and may provide access to companion services for that website address. Similar predetermined templates may be used to pattern match an email address a phone number an information network identifier such as for example a Twitter hash tag or a Twitter address or other information having a particular pattern.

Similarly in some embodiments the companion services module may analyze the video to identify displayable objects in the video and to determine whether any of the identified objects are actionable objects. For example the companion services module may perform image based searching based on one or more frames of the video to identify objects. The image based searching may compare features of objects in the video to object features in an actionable object database. The actionable object database may define features of objects which are considered to be actionable. For example the actionable object database may include sample images of actionable objects. In some such example embodiments the image based search may attempt to determine whether the object identified in the video corresponds to any sample images in the actionable object database. If an object is contained in the video which corresponds to an object in the actionable object database then the companion services module may provide companion services for the identified object.

As noted in the discussion of in some example embodiments the companion device may not have access to the video. Accordingly in some example embodiments the analysis of the video may be performed by the media display device . That is the media display device may be configured to analyze the video to identify displayable text and to determine whether any of the identified text in the video contains actionable text and or may be configured to analyze the video to identify displayable objects and to determine whether any of the identified objects are actionable objects. Based on the result of this analysis the media display device may send one or more suitable instructions or commands to the companion device to instruct the companion device to provide access to companion features associated with the identified actionable text and or identified actionable objects. Upon or after receiving such instructions the companion services module may provide access to one or more features associated with the identified actionable text and or one or more features associated with the identified actionable objects. For example the companion services module may cause a selectable option which may be of the type described above to be displayed to allow a user to access the feature. By way of example if the identified text is a phone number a selectable option to initiate a phone call to the number may be displayed.

Functions and features of the companion services module will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to and .

The companion device may include a range of additional software applications including for example a notepad application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the display according to the application.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example media display device . The media display device is configured to display a video on a display associated with the media display device . As noted above in some example embodiments the media display device may be a television or a monitor.

As noted above in some example embodiments the media display device simply acts as a passive display device displaying video received from the companion device on the display . However in other example embodiments the media display device takes a more active role by causing the companion device to provide companion services. In some example embodiments the media display device may analyze video to determine whether the video contains actionable text and or to determine whether the video contains an actionable object.

The media display device may include a controller including one or more processor which controls the overall operation of the media display device . The media display device may include a memory which is communicatively connected to the processor . The memory may be configured to provide data stored in the memory to the processor . For example the memory may include processor readable instructions for causing the processor to perform a method such as for example one or more of the methods described below with reference to .

While the memory is illustrated as a single component it will typically include multiple memory components of various types. For example the memory may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard disk drive HDD a solid state drive SSD flash memory or other types of memory. It will be appreciated that each of these various types of memory will be best suited for different purposes and applications.

The processor may operate under stored program control and may execute software modules stored on the memory . The software modules may in some example embodiments included a companion services module .

The companion services module is in some example embodiments configured to coordinate with a companion services module on the companion device to provide access to one or more features which are associated with actionable text and or an actionable object displayed in the video. In some example embodiments the companion services module of the media display device may be configured to analyze the video to identify displayable text and or displayable objects and to determine whether any of the identified text and or objects in the video contains actionable text and or actionable objects . Based on the result of this analysis the companion services module of the media display device may send one or more suitable instructions or commands to the companion device to instruct the companion device to provide access to companion features associated with the identified actionable text and or actionable object .

Functions and features of the companion services module will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to .

The media display device includes a display . The display may in some example embodiments be a liquid crystal display LCD . In other example embodiments the display may be a light emitting diode LED display. In some example embodiments the display may be a touch screen display which is configured to display content and also to receive input via a touch sensitive overlay. Other types of displays may be used in other example embodiments.

The media display device may include one or more communication subsystems for communicating with other systems servers or electronic devices. For example a communication subsystem may be provided on the media display device to allow the media display device to communicate with the companion device . The communication subsystem may be a wired or wireless communication subsystem. In some example embodiments the communication subsystem is a short range communication subsystem which is configured to communicate with the short range communication subsystem of the companion device for example the communication subsystem may be a Wi Fi or Bluetooth communication subsystem in some example embodiments. The communication subsystem may take other forms apart from those specifically listed herein.

In some example embodiments video may be received via the communication subsystem . However it will be appreciated that video may be received via another interface in other example embodiments. In some example embodiments video may be received from an access network via a receiver not shown such as a tuner associated with the media display device .

The media display device may include other features components or subsystems apart from those specifically discussed herein. By way of example the media display device will include a power subsystem which interfaces with a power source for providing electrical power to the media display device and its components. By way of further example the media display device may include one or more input devices. The input devices may include a navigational input device and or an alpha numeric input device. By way of further example the input devices may include a mouse a track pad a track ball a touch screen overlay or another input device not specifically listed herein.

The software modules may be logically or physically organized in a manner that is different than the manner illustrated in . By way of example the features described herein with reference to the companion services module may be provided by a plurality of software modules. Thus the software modules described with reference to represent one possible assignment of features to software modules. However such features may be organized in other ways in other example embodiments.

Furthermore the media display device may include other software applications or modules which provide features which are not specifically discussed herein. For example the media display device may include operating system software which controls the overall operation of the media display device .

Reference will now be made to which illustrates an example method for providing access to one or more companion features on a companion device . More particularly the method may be used to provide companion services for video.

The method includes features which may be provided by a companion device such as the companion device of . More particularly one or more applications or modules associated with the companion device such as the companion services module of may contain processor readable instructions for causing a processor associated with the companion device to perform the method of . That is in some example embodiments the companion device is configured to perform the method of .

In some example embodiments one or more of the features of the method of may be provided in whole or in part by another system software application module or device apart from those specifically listed above. In some example embodiments one or more of the features of the method may be performed at least in part by the media display device of . In some example embodiments one or more applications or modules associated with the media display device such as the companion services module may contain processor readable instructions for causing a processor associated with the media display device to perform the method of .

At text contained within a video is identified. More particularly a text recognition algorithm may be performed on the video to identify displayable text in the video. That is text which is displayed in one or more frames of the video may be identified.

In some example embodiments the analysis at may be a frame based analysis. That is in some example embodiments at one or more frames of the video may be analyzed to identify text contained in the video. In some example embodiments all frames of the video may be analyzed. In some example embodiments frames may be sequentially analyzed until all frames have been analyzed. In other example embodiments not all frames may be analyzed. For example since a single frame is displayed only briefly the same text will typically be displayed in multiple sequential frames to allow a user sufficient time to read the text. Accordingly in some example embodiments may be performed intermittently. That is frames of the video may be intermittently analyzed so that not all frames are analyzed i.e. at least some frames are skipped . In some example embodiments frames are periodically analyzed so that after a frame is analyzed at least one subsequent frame is not analyzed before another frame is analyzed. Such intermittent analysis may reduce the processing power required for the text recognition analysis.

At a processor performing the method determines whether the identified text contains actionable text. As noted above actionable text is text which may be acted upon. More particularly actionable text is text for which a companion service is available on the companion device .

In some example embodiments the determination regarding whether the identified text contains actionable text is performed by pattern matching. Pattern matching may compare text strings identified in the video to one or more predetermined templates associated with actionable text. For example a template for a website address may require that the address include www followed by a period followed by a text string followed by another period followed by another text string i.e. www.text string.text string . Accordingly in some example embodiments at the processor performing the method determines if the identified text in the video contains a string of characters having one or more predetermined formats. The predetermined formats may for example correspond to a date an address such as a geographic address or electronic messaging address or website address a phone number an information network identifier such as for example a Twitter hash tag or a Twitter address . In some example embodiments the processor may determine if the identified text in the video contains a string of characters representing an address of a predetermined type such as a website address electronic messaging address and or geographic address .

If the identified text in the video contains a string of characters having one or more predetermined formats then the processor may determine that the video contains actionable text.

Accordingly in some example embodiments at the processor may determine whether the video contains a phone number. Similarly in some example embodiments at the processor may determine whether the video contains a website address. Similarly in some example embodiments at the processor may determine whether the video contains an email address. Similarly in some example embodiments at the processor may determine whether the video contains a geographic address i.e. a real world address . Similarly in some example embodiments at the processor may determine whether the video contains contact information contact information may be any information associated with a person or company which may be useful for the purposes of contacting the person or company such as a geographic address a phone number etc. . Similarly in some example embodiments at the processor may determine whether the video contains a date.

Since the same actionable text may be displayed in multiple frames such as multiple successive frames some filtering may be performed on identified actionable text to ensure that the same actionable text on different frames of the same video does not create multiple instances of selectable options. In some embodiments prior to proceeding to the method may determine whether a selectable option has already been created based on the same actionable text. If so then the actionable text may be ignored. If not then processing may resume at .

If the video is determined to include actionable text at access to one or more companion features may be provided on the companion device based on the actionable text. In some example embodiments when actionable text is identified in the video one or more selectable options may be displayed on the display of the companion device based on the actionable text. The nature and function of the selectable options which are displayed may depend on a type associated with the actionable text. That is different types of actionable text may result in different types of options being displayed on the companion device . Some of the various types of selectable options which may be displayed will now be discussed. Examples of these selectable options are illustrated in and will be discussed below.

In some example embodiments if a phone number is identified in the video then a selectable option to initiate a communication to the phone number identified may be provided on the companion device . Similarly if a website address is identified in the video then a selectable option to navigate to the website address using a web browser may be provided on the companion device . If an electronic messaging address such as an email messaging address is identified in the video then a selectable option to compose an email having a recipient field populated with the email address may be displayed on the companion device . If a geographic address is identified in the video then a selectable option to display a map associated with the geographic address may be provided on the companion device. In some example embodiments if a geographic address is identified in the video then a selectable option to navigate i.e. provide directions to to the geographic address is displayed. In some example embodiments if the video contains contact information such as for example an address or phone number then a selectable option may be provided on the companion device to store the contact information in an address book. In some example embodiments if a date is identified in the video then a selectable option to create a calendar event based on the date is provided on the companion device . In some example embodiments if an information network identifier such as for example a Twitter address or hash tag is identified in the video then a selectable option to access the information network is provided on the companion device . Other types of selectable options may be provided in other example embodiments.

In some example embodiments at the processor may provide access to a feature based on the actionable text by adding a link to the feature to a list which includes links to other features based on other actionable text identified in the video. Each link may be a selectable option associated with specific actionable text. Accordingly in some example embodiments the companion device may maintain a running list of links to features associated with actionable text displayed in the video. Features associated with actionable text displayed earlier in the video may have a less prominent position e.g. may be displayed lower than features associated with actionable text displayed later in the video. In some example embodiments a user of the companion device may be permitted to select one or more of the links as favorites. Selecting a link as a favorite may cause the link to remain in a more prominent position on the list and or may cause the link to be included in the list for a longer period of time than if the same link was not selected as a favorite.

In some example embodiments the links may also be operable to cause the point of playback of the video to be adjusted to the point in the video where the actionable text associated with the link was displayed. For example selection of the link may cause the video to be rewound to a frame which includes the actionable text associated with the link. The video may be paused on that frame and in an example embodiment the actionable text is highlighted or playback of the video may automatically be resumed beginning at that frame.

In some example embodiments for at least some types of actionable text rather than providing a selectable option on the companion device when such actionable text is identified the companion device may instead automatically perform a function feature or service on the companion device associated with the actionable text. In some example embodiments in response to identifying a website address in the video a web browser on the companion device may automatically navigate to the website address.

In some example embodiments may be performed during playback of the video on the media display device . For example while video is being displayed on the media display device the companion device may provide access to features based on the actionable text. In some example embodiments after actionable text is displayed on the display associated with the media display device the selectable option associated with that actionable text may be displayed on the companion device .

As noted above in some example embodiments the method of may be performed by the companion device . In such example embodiments the companion device may have access to the video. For example the companion device may access the video from a web server accessible over a network or from a data store associated with the companion device . In some example embodiments the method may include a step not shown of streaming or otherwise providing the video to the media display device for playback on the media display device .

In other example embodiments the method may be performed by the media display device . In such example embodiments the method may include a step not shown of displaying the video on the media display device . More particularly the method may include a step of displaying the video on a display of the media display device . In some example embodiments at the media display device may provide access to the one or more features based on the actionable text by sending a command to the companion device to instruct the companion device to provide access to the one or more features based on the actionable text. That is when the media display device identifies actionable text it may cause the companion device to provide access to the features based on the actionable text. For example it may instruct the media display device to display a suitable selectable option based on the actionable text.

Referring now to an example companion services screen is illustrated. The companion services screen includes a plurality of selectable options which may be generated on a display of the companion device based on actionable text identified in video. The selectable options are interface elements which may be selected using an input interface associated with the companion device . In the example embodiment illustrated the selectable options identify the actionable text which caused that selectable option to be displayed e.g. they identify the specific email address phone number etc. which was identified in the video .

A create contact record selectable option may be displayed to provide a user with a selectable option to create a contain record based on actionable text which identifies contact information. In the example embodiment illustrated the actionable text which caused the create contact record selectable option to be displayed was a geographic address e.g. 2 8 Wellington St. E. Toronto ON .

An electronic messaging selectable option may be displayed to provide a user with a selectable option to create an electronic message based on actionable text which identifies an email address. In the example embodiment illustrated the actionable text which caused the electronic messaging selectable option to be displayed was an email address e.g. recipient rowandlaw.com .

A call phone selectable option may be displayed to provide a user with a selectable option to call a phone number identified in the video. The call phone selectable option may identify the phone number e.g. 1 800 555 5555 which caused the call phone selectable option to be displayed.

A create calendar event selectable option may be displayed to provide a user with a selectable option to create a calendar event based on a date identified in the video. The create calendar event selectable option may identify the date e.g. Nov. 5 2012 which caused the create calendar event selectable option to be displayed.

A navigation selectable option may be displayed to provide a user with a selectable option to provide directions to a geographic address identified in the video. The navigation selectable option may specify the geographic address which was identified in the video and which caused the navigation selectable option to be displayed.

A go to website selectable option may be displayed to provide a user with a selectable option to cause a web browser to navigate to a website address identified in the video. The go to website selectable option may specify this website.

A display map selectable option may be displayed to provide a user with a selectable option to display a map associated with a geographic address contained in the video. The display map selectable option may specify this geographic address.

An access an information network selectable option may be displayed to provide a user with a selectable option to access the information network associated with an information network identifier such as for example a Twitter address or hash tag contained in the video. The access an information network selectable option may specify the information network identifier.

Other types of selectable options may be displayed instead of or in addition to the selectable options illustrated in .

In some example embodiments not shown the companion services screen may also include a video display window not shown . The video display window may display the video associated with the selectable options displayed in the companion services screen . In some example embodiments the video display window on the companion device may be synced to the media display device so that both the companion device and the media display device display common frames from the video at common times.

In some example embodiments not shown one or more of the selectable options may have a visual indicator which points to the actionable text in the video which caused the creation of the selectable option. In some embodiments a line may be displayed which links a selectable option to actionable text displayed in the video display window which is associated with that selectable option. The line may in some example embodiments be displayed only while the actionable text associated with the selectable option persists in the video display window. That is when the actionable text associated with the selectable option is no longer displayed in the video display window the line may be removed. In some example embodiments the line may react to changes in the position of the actionable text within the video. For example if the position of the actionable text moves within the video e.g. up down left right diagonal etc. then the line may move accordingly so that the line follows the actionable text.

In some example embodiments selection of one of the selectable options may cause the playback of the video to be paused. Playback of the video may be paused on either the companion device e.g. in the video display window discussed above the media display device or both.

Referring now to a further example of a method for providing access to one or more companion features on a companion device is illustrated in flowchart form. The method may be used to provide companion services for video.

The method includes features which may be provided by a companion device such as the companion device of . More particularly one or more applications or modules associated with the companion device such as the companion services module of may contain processor readable instructions for causing a processor associated with the companion device to perform the method of . That is in some example embodiments the companion device is configured to perform the method of .

In some example embodiments one or more of the features of the method of may be provided in whole or in part by another system software application module or device apart from those specifically listed above. In some example embodiments one or more of the features of the method may be performed at least in part by the media display device of . In some example embodiments one or more applications or modules associated with the media display device such as the companion services module may contain processor readable instructions for causing a processor associated with the media display device to perform the method of .

In the method of at a determination is made regarding whether the playback of the video has been paused. The video is only analyzed at if it is determined that the video is paused. That is pausing playback of the video acts as a trigger to cause the method and operations and described above with reference to to be performed.

In some example embodiments when the video is paused then at the identification of text in the video may be performed by analyzing the frame of the video displayed during the pause. The text identified in the frame displayed during the pause may then be used at to determine if the identified text in the video contains actionable text.

If the text contains actionable text then at access to one or more features may be provided based on the actionable text in the manner described above with reference to .

While the example embodiments described above have generally described analyzing displayable video to identify actionable text in other example embodiments an audio based analysis may be performed to determine whether the audio component of the video contains any actionable text.

Furthermore while the example embodiments described above have generally described systems in which video display and companion services are provided on separate devices e.g. video is displayed on a media display device and companion services for that video are provided on a companion device in other example embodiments a single device may provide both video display and companion services. Such a device may be referred to as a media display device or a companion device since it provides both media display functions and companion services. In some example embodiments the device may display video. When the video contains actionable text which may be identified in the manner described above the device may allow a user to select an option to activate a companion feature on the device based on the actionable text.

In some example embodiments actionable text may be modified on the displayed video to indicate that such text is actionable. For example the appearance of actionable text may be modified e.g. by underlining or highlighting the text . In some embodiments a hyperlink to a feature associated with actionable text may be created on the frames of the video which contain the actionable text so that interaction with the text causes the device to access the feature associated with the actionable text. For example if the actionable text is a phone number then a hyperlink may be created so that the phone number may be selectable. Selection of the phone number may for example cause a phone call to be initiated to the phone number.

Some example embodiments discussed above referred to example embodiments in which the media display device identified actionable text within the video. However in other example embodiments this identification may be performed on the companion device . In some example embodiments the media display device may identify text in the video and may stream such text to the companion device . The companion device may then make the determination regarding whether the text represents actionable text. In other example embodiments the companion device may have access to the video and may itself identify actionable text in the video.

Reference will now be made to which illustrates a further example method for providing access to one or more companion features on a companion device . More particularly the method may be used to provide companion services for video.

The method includes features which may be provided by a companion device such as the companion device of . More particularly one or more applications or modules associated with the companion device such as the companion services module of may contain processor readable instructions for causing a processor associated with the companion device to perform the method of . That is in some example embodiments the companion device is configured to perform the method of .

In some example embodiments one or more of the features of the method of may be provided in whole or in part by another system software application module or device apart from those specifically listed above. In some example embodiments one or more of the features of the method may be performed at least in part by the media display device of . In some example embodiments one or more applications or modules associated with the media display device such as the companion services module may contain processor readable instructions for causing a processor associated with the media display device to perform the method of .

The method may in some example embodiments be triggered when the video is paused. That is a pause of the video may cause the method to be initiated. The media display device may determine if the playback of the video has been paused and may only perform the method when it is determined that the playback of the video has been paused. Other triggers may be used in other example embodiments to initiate the method .

In some example embodiments at an image based search is performed on a video to determine whether the video includes an actionable object. The image based search may compare one or more frames of the video to objects represented in an actionable object database. In some example embodiments the image based search may identify an object displayed in a frame. The image based search may separate a frame into objects or components that are displayed in the frame. Each object or component may represent a separate real world object or component. For example a building object representing a building may be separated from other portions of a frame. Then in some example embodiments the image based search may attempt to determine whether the separated objects correspond to any objects represented in the actionable object database.

In some example embodiments at the image based search may be facial recognition. That is at facial recognition may be performed on one or more frames of the video to determine whether the video includes a famous person. This determination may be made by comparing features of the one or more frames to features in a famous persons database. The famous persons database includes information representing facial features of a plurality of famous persons such as for example actors and historical figures and may also include identification information e.g. a name for such persons. The information representing facial features may be an image or images of the person. That is the famous persons database may include images of famous persons. The image based search may compare one or more frames of the video with the images to determine whether the famous person represented by the image is displayed in the video.

In some example embodiments at the image based search may be a location recognition search to identify a location such as for example a city represented in the video. That is at location recognition may be performed on one or more frames of the video to determine whether the video displays features of a particular location. This determination may be made by comparing features of the one or more frames to features in a location features database. The location features database includes information representing features of a plurality of locations. Such information may be used to identify a location and or features at that location. For example such information may include information regarding the skyline of the location and or information regarding buildings located at the location. The image based search may automatically compare one or more frames of the video with the location features database to determine whether a feature in the database is displayed in the video.

In some example embodiments at the image based search may be a product recognition search to identify a product represented in the video. That is at product recognition may be performed on one or more frames of the video to determine whether the video displays a known product. This determination may be made by comparing features of one or more frames to features in a product database. The product database includes information representing features of a plurality of products. For example the product database may include product images illustrating products. The product database may also include identification information such as a name identifying the products. In some embodiments at one or more frames of the video may be compared with the product images to determine whether the product associated with the product images is displayed in the video.

In some example embodiments at the image based search may be a bar code search to then provide information associated with a bar code in the video. That is at a bar code search may be performed on one or more frames of the video to determine whether the video displays a bar code.

In some example embodiments the analysis at may be a frame based analysis. That is in some example embodiments at one or more frames of the video may be analyzed to identify actionable objects contained in the video. In some example embodiments all frames of the video may be analyzed. In some example embodiments frames may be sequentially analyzed until all frames have been analyzed. In other example embodiments not all frames may be analyzed. For example since a single frame is displayed only briefly the same object will typically be displayed in multiple sequential frames to allow a user sufficient time to visually process the object. Accordingly in some example embodiments may be performed intermittently. That is frames of the video may be intermittently analyzed so that not all frames are analyzed i.e. at least some frames are skipped . In some example embodiments frames are periodically analyzed so that after a frame is analyzed at least one subsequent frame is not analyzed before another frame is analyzed. Such intermittent analysis may reduce the processing power required for the object recognition analysis.

Where the method is triggered in response to a pausing of the video in some example embodiments may be performed on the frame of the video displayed while the playback of the video is paused. That is the frame displayed while playback of the video is paused may be analyzed at and other frames which are not displayed may not be analyzed at this time.

If the video includes an actionable object then at the method may provide access to one or more companion features based on the actionable object. Such access may be provided in the same manner as described above with reference to of . In some example embodiments when an actionable object is identified in the video one or more selectable options may be displayed on the display of the companion device based on the actionable object. The nature and function of the selectable options which are displayed may depend on a type associated with the actionable object. That is different types of actionable objects may result in different types of options being displayed on the companion device . Some of the various types of selectable options which may be displayed will now be discussed. In some example embodiments access to the companion features may be provided on the companion device during playback of the video on the media display device .

In some example embodiments if a famous person is identified in the video then a selectable option may be displayed to provide access to information about the person. Selection of the selectable option may cause information about the person such as a date of birth date of death list of credits etc. to be displayed. Alternatively in some example embodiments instead of displaying the selectable option the information about the person may automatically be displayed when the actionable object is identified. In some example embodiments the information about the person and or the selectable option may be displayed on a display associated with the companion device while playback of the video is provided on the media display device . The information may in some example embodiments be obtained from the selectable object database e.g. the famous persons database .

In some example embodiments if a location or a feature of a location is identified in the video then a selectable option may be displayed to provide access to information about the location or feature. Selection of the selectable option may cause information about the location or feature to be displayed such as a city population a map illustrating where at the location the feature is located a map illustrating population density a list of recent and upcoming events recommendations for hotels or tourist attractions etc. . Alternatively in some example embodiments instead of displaying the selectable option the information about the location or feature may automatically be displayed when the actionable object is identified. In some example embodiments the information about the location or feature and or the selectable option may be displayed on a display associated with the companion device while playback of the video is provided on the media display device . The information may in some example embodiments be obtained from the selectable object database e.g. the location features database .

In some example embodiments if a product is identified in the video then a selectable option may be displayed to provide access to information about the product. Selection of the selectable option may cause information about the product to be displayed such as the name of the product manufacturer retail information etc. . Alternatively in some example embodiments instead of displaying the selectable option the information about the product may automatically be displayed when the actionable object is identified. In some example embodiments the information about the product and or the selectable option may be displayed on a display associated with the companion device while playback of the video is provided on the media display device . The information may in some example embodiments be obtained from the selectable object database e.g. the product database .

In some example embodiments if a product is identified in the video then a selectable option may be displayed to purchase the product. Selection of the selectable option may in some example embodiments initiate an ecommerce process which allows the product to be purchased over the Internet. In some example embodiments selection of the selectable option to purchase the product may cause an Internet browser or ecommerce application associated with the companion device to navigate to an ecommerce website or portal. In some example embodiments a parameter may be added to a website address associated with the ecommerce website when navigating to the website address to allow a web server associated with the website address to associate access of the website with a referrer. That is an identifier associated with a referrer may be added to the website address which may be a URL . The identifier may be unique to a referrer to allow the web server to identify the referrer. The referrer may for example be the manufacturer and or distributor of the companion device and or a software developer associated with the companion services module . Tracking the referrer may for example allow the referrer to receive compensation from an operator of the web server for the referral.

In some example embodiments if a bar code is identified in the video then a selectable option may be displayed to scan the bar code and provide information associated with the bar code. Selection of the selectable option may in some example embodiments initiate a bar code scanning application associated with the companion device and provide to the bar code scanning application the bar code for processing.

While the present application described analysis of a displayable component of video similar techniques may be employed to analyze an audio component of video. For example audio may be analyzed to determine whether the audio contains a song and to identify a song contained in the audio component and access to companion features may be provided on the companion device based on the song identified. For example information about the song may be displayed and or a selectable option to purchase the song may be displayed.

While the present application is primarily described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present application is also directed to various apparatus such as a handheld electronic device and a server. The handheld electronic device and the server includes components for performing at least some of the example aspects and features of the described methods be it by way of hardware components such as the memory and or the processor software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It is understood that such apparatus articles of manufacture and computer data signals also come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu Ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

Example embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system system architecture mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The various example embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this application. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected to create alternative example embodiments including a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative example embodiments including a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

