---

title: Autonomous event communication using wearable emergency responder equipment
abstract: A system processes a series of incoming message to generate an outgoing message. In exemplary embodiments, the incoming messages comprise a first event from a wearable holster configured to accept a weapon, then receiving a second event from the wearable holster. The first signal and second signal are compared based on their respective content. The received signals derive from sensor data such as a switch, an accelerometer, a GPS sensor, a wrist device, a head device. The comparison invokes additional processing to determine the contents of a message to be sent to at least one recipient. Contents of messages are captured into a learning model, and when comparing contents of the first signal to contents of the second signal comprises the learning model is used to generate a prediction that causes an alert to be emitted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602993&OS=09602993&RS=09602993
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 09602993
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140903
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 948 167 entitled SMART HOLSTER filed Mar. 5 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The disclosure relates to the field of law enforcement equipment and more particularly to techniques for real time event communication using wearable emergency responder equipment.

Law enforcement agents and other emergency responders get into difficult situations that require their full attention. In such situations they might forget to call for backup or perform certain other critical tasks. In legacy situations the officer uses his her or her radio to advise a dispatcher of ongoing events. If the officer becomes incapacitated the officer might be unable to perform certain tasks including advising dispatch of ongoing events. Officers receive extensive training to deal with various law enforcement situations but unfortunately many still get injured or even die in service. In fact statistics show average officer assaults injuries and deaths over the past decade 2003 2012 to be increasing. Such events include 57 892 assaults per year 15 483 injuries per year and 154 deaths per year.

Prior solutions are not solutions at all and rely on the officer to simultaneously perform law enforcement maneuvers while using his her radio. In some cases it is infeasible for an officer to radio in . Such cases include when the officer must be silent or stealthy and or when the officer has been injured or incapacitated.

What is needed is a way to detect events and disseminate information about those events in a manner that does not require any conscious act by the officer.

None of the aforementioned legacy approaches achieve the capabilities of the herein disclosed techniques for real time events communication using wearable emergency responder equipment. Therefore there is a need for improvements.

The present disclosure provides an improved method system and computer program product suited to address the aforementioned issues with legacy approaches. More specifically the present disclosure provides a detailed description of techniques used in methods systems and computer program products for real time events communication using wearable emergency responder equipment.

Some claims are directed to approaches for configuring a command center to receive and process signals from the wearable emergency responder equipment which claims advance the technical fields for addressing the problem of autonomous event communication and response as well as advancing peripheral technical fields. Some claims improve the functioning of multiple systems within the disclosed environments.

Some claims are directed to a system comprising a signal IO module control component for receiving incoming wireless signals from a wireless enabled holster. The received incoming wireless signals are routed to a rule server configured to query a database to store and retrieve rules which rules are applied over the incoming wireless signals. A predictive model is used to process the incoming wireless signals to generate real time alerts which alerts are in turn sent to the wireless enabled holster.

Some claims are directed to a system comprising a signal IO module configured to receive incoming wireless signals from remote wearable wireless enabled emergency responder equipment. The system includes a rule server configured to query a database to retrieve one or more rules and to apply the one or more rules over the incoming wireless signals so as to invoke a predictor to process the incoming wireless signals and to generate at least one real time alert in response to the at least one of the rules. An alerts server sends a real time alert to at least one device of the remote wearable wireless enabled emergency responder equipment.

Some embodiments process a series of incoming messages to generate an outgoing message. In exemplary embodiments the incoming messages comprise a first event from a wearable holster configured to accept a weapon then receiving a second event from the wearable holster. The first signal and second signal are compared based on their respective content. The received signals derive from sensor data such as a switch an accelerometer a GPS sensor a wrist device and a head device. The comparison invokes additional processing for determining the contents of a message to be sent to at least one recipient. Contents of messages are captured into a learning model and when comparing contents of the first signal to contents of the second signal the learning model is used to generate a prediction which causes an alert to be emitted.

Further details of aspects objectives and advantages of the disclosure are described below and in the detailed description drawings and claims. Both the foregoing general description of the background and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure address the problem of detecting events and disseminating information about those events in a manner that does not require any conscious act by the officer. More particularly disclosed herein and in the accompanying figures are exemplary environments methods and systems for real time event communication using wearable emergency responder equipment.

The herein disclosed wearable emergency responder equipment e.g. smart holster and its peripherals e.g. smart vest constantly monitor the emergency responder s situation in order to record events situations and actions. For example when a law enforcement officer unlatches the latch of the holster the smart holster detects this event and reports it to dispatch and or to another repository. From there these events can be forwarded to any number of subscribers . For example the officer s partner might be wearing headgear e.g. Google Glass and the headgear might subscribe to the unlatch holster event. Upon receipt of the subscribed to event the headgear of the officer s partner turns on the camera within the headgear so that the situation viewed by the officer gets automatically streamed up line and recorded. The officers do not have to take any specific actions in order for this to occur other than what they have already done e.g. unlatch their holsters etc. . A central command center component e.g. a web application might also subscribe to events and might display the event any spawned events and any streaming data together with the officer s location e.g. superimposed on a map that is displayed via the web application .

As an example when the officer unholsters his her weapon another event gets automatically triggered and sent to the server. In this case the nearby officers would get notified that another officer in their vicinity has unholstered his her gun and therefore suggests apparent and imminent danger then their headgear would turn on and display a map with their location along with an indication corresponding to the event and or status that that the officer has unholstered his her gun. Additionally the officer s location and possibly directions on how medical personnel can come to the aid of that officer might be displayed to subscribers e.g. the command center . In some situations it is appropriate to send SMS messages to civilians in the immediate vicinity e.g. warning them to stay out of the area where the officer has unholstered his her gun .

As another example an accelerometer in the holster can also detect when the officer is running e.g. in foot pursuit and or if when the officer were to happen to fall down. Again this event might trigger further events and or actions taken in the command center e.g. an ambulance could get dispatched to the location of the officer .

As can be seen from the above events and messages and streaming data can be sent to subscribers all without any intervention from any human.

Some of the terms used in this description are defined below for easy reference. The presented terms and their respective definitions are not rigidly restricted to these definitions a term can be further defined by the term s use within this disclosure.

The term exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

As used in this application and the appended claims the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or is clear from the context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances.

The articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or is clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Reference is now made in detail to certain embodiments. The disclosed embodiments are not intended to be limiting of the claims.

As shown the system of includes a head mounted device . The head mounted device can comprise any of a camera a heads up display HUD a microphone an audio output device and other devices and sensors e.g. HUD mounted accelerometer sensor . The camera can perform any functions pertaining to recording of video and or taking of pictures. The HUD can perform any aspect of displaying of information. The microphone can perform any of a recording of sound which may be synchronized with the camera . The audio output device can produce sounds e.g. beeps clicks speech music etc. . As shown the head mounted device communicates over a PAN communication link with a wearable microcontroller and other communication links are possible as well e.g. in a peer to peer configuration .

Sensors may include sensors to detect the wearer s pulse rate the wearer s blood pressure and or relative hand motions e.g. waving or relative hand or arm quiescence e.g. hand in pockets or hand on steering wheel . Other situations can be detected or predicted based on a sequence of sensor data received from various wearable sensors. For example a sequence of events from a wrist accelerometer sensor and from the sensors from a head mounted device might be indicative of the wearer removing or adjusting his her head mounted device.

Any of the aforementioned sensors can be integrated into the flak jacket or vest. For example an accelerometer can be used to detect the physical posture of the wearer as well as detect other situations and or events. For example the flak jacket can be used to determine if the wearer is walking or running at rest or laying down etc.

The sensor data can be used singly or in combination to determine many actual situations. Further sensor data can be used singly or in combination to determine many probable situations. Still further the occurrence of one situation or even many situations or events in a sequence can be used as a predictor of another situation or sequence of events. For example if an officer were to release the catch on his her weapon e.g. see contact switch sensor a model can determine within a statistical certainty that a next event would be to unholster the weapon. Or in the case of an accelerometer on a wrist device a model can determine within a statistical certainty if the officer is signaling via a hand wave motion.

Sensors detect if when the officer has unclipped his her gun. If when that occurs the holster sends a message over network communications which message describes the event. A unit within operations receives the message. For example a control center component processes the message and forwards the received message and or a second message to the dispatch switchboard e.g. the second message serving to request backup for officer . The message can comprise of any one or more of a location any situational information officer vitals etc. In some cases the control center component sends a message to a recording unit to begin recording streams e.g. video audio sensor data etc. . Some streams can be repeated for display at the head mounted device on officer . The dispatch switchboard radios an officer . The officer receives the request for back up and situational information. The officer responds to the request for backup and the control center component receives a message that officer as well as officer have both drawn their weapons. Lights or other indications in the control center serve to alert personnel in the control center of the severity of the events received. The control center component uses routing functions to forward or respond to certain messages e.g. an officer down message might be sent to any of a local law enforcement a county law enforcement a government agency paramedics a local fire department etc. . In this scenario the local law enforcement uses a dispatch switchboard to communicate to a broadcast group which communication might include instructions to dispatch backup units. Other members of the broadcast group might include a government agency and might include broadcast group members e.g. real persons or networked nodes such as a holster . Some participants in a broadcast group can serve to dispatch aid e.g. an ambulance paramedics etc. .

The operator can interact with the web dashboard and upon receipt of a message or event visual information can be provided in the form of controlled lighting . The controlled lighting can perform changes of colors to provide visual information e.g. yellow to indicate an escalating situation red to indicate a severe situation etc. .

The control center component can communicate with a database server to perform any of a sending a receiving a storing and a retrieving of information. The database server can comprise any of a web application server to serve web applications and a database to store information. The database server can be implemented as a single server or as a cluster of servers or computing units and or any portions module or sub components of the shown database server can be situated in a cloud e.g. for multi tenant hosting or private hosting and or any portion or portions can be hosted in a captive or private setting.

The control center component can communicate with a dispatch switchboard to send messages to an agency e.g. local law enforcement county law enforcement a government agency etc. and a receiving of messages from an agency. Further operational units in the control center component can perform any forms of communication with an officer for example transmitting or relaying information between an officer and a second officer and or transmitting or relaying information to an Nth officer and a sending of a public alert e.g. evacuation order danger alert etc. .

In certain environments the control center component hosts a number of servers that are dedicated to a particular function. For example telemetry to and from the holster and or any wearable devices can be handled by sensor telemetry server . Further a HUD video server can serve to both receive video from any number of head mounted devices and or can deliver video to a head mounted device. Strictly as examples HUD video server can record the situation on the ground or the HUD video server can be used to deliver video comprising the scene as experienced by an officer.

Any of the operators can interact with a dashboard and the displayed information on the dashboard might include suggestions of actions to be taken by any of the participants during the course of responding to a situation. For example if a single officer had responded and then found an escalating situation it might be appropriate for the control center operators to call for backup to the situation location even in the absence of any such instruction coming from the single officer.

Rules of engagement may be codified and rules to be considered or applied in a particular situation can be emitted by a predictive model. Such a predictive model can be constructed using a learning model and in turn the predictive model can be wrapped by a predictor see that is configured to process incoming signals. A learning model can process received signals in real time and can learn continuously. Some embodiments include learning supervision so as to determine when to emit one or more rules and or when to raise one or more alerts . The shown rules server and alerts server might be configured so as to only apply rules that have a particular threshold of likelihood resulting in the desired outcomes and or have a particular threshold of likelihood of advancing the situation to a next step e.g. where additional rules with higher likelihoods of successful outcomes can be applied . The aforementioned predictive model can be embodied as a component within a learning model system. One possible embodiment of a learning model system is given in the following .

In some cases the predictive model can be output from a model validator after such a model validator has determined that a learning model exhibits sufficient quantitative characteristics e.g. precision and recall such that the predictions of the learning model can be relied upon to a particular statistical certainty. The learning model can be populated over time using any number of training cycles. Further the validation of the training model and calculation of quantitative characteristics can be performed over any number of validation cycles. In some cases a predictive model receives stimulation in the form of real time incoming telemetry data over incoming telemetry path . The real time stimulus can be used the generate a prediction within the predictive model which in turn can cause a rule to be emitted and or an alert to be raised.

At some moment in time an event might occur see event and a sensor might detect the occurrence of and various aspects of the event and forward event data to the holster see message . Such a message might be relayed to a command center as shown or might be sent directly to a command center see message . The command center server then processes the event message see operation adds the occurrence and event data to a learning model see operation compares the received event to other events see operation generates a prediction see operation applies rules e.g. responsive to the prediction and formats an alert see operation and operation . The alert might be sent to any one or more recipients see message and any one or more recipients might respond to the alert see operation .

At any moment in time a second event may occur see second event and the occurrence of and data pertaining to the second event is delivered to the command center see message and message . In some embodiments a particular sequence of a first event and a second event yields a high statistical confidence interval such that a prediction see operation can be acted upon e.g. see operation .

According to one embodiment of the disclosure computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory . Such instructions can be read into system memory from another computer readable usable medium such as a static storage device or a disk drive . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry can be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the disclosure. Thus embodiments of the disclosure are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and or software. In one embodiment the term logic shall mean any combination of software or hardware that is used to implement all or part of the disclosure.

The term computer readable medium or computer usable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory .

Common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium CD ROM or any other optical medium punch cards paper tape or any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM or any other memory chip or cartridge or any other non transitory medium from which a computer can read data.

In an embodiment of the disclosure execution of the sequences of instructions to practice the disclosure is performed by a single instance of the computer system . According to certain embodiments of the disclosure two or more computer systems coupled by a communications link e.g. LAN PTSN or wireless network can perform the sequence of instructions required to practice the disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computer system can transmit and receive messages data and instructions including programs e.g. application code through communications link and communication interface . Received program code can be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution. Computer system can communicate through a data interface to a database on an external data repository . A module as used herein can be implemented using any mix of any portions of the system memory and any extent of hard wired circuitry including hard wired circuitry embodied as a processor .

In the foregoing specification the disclosure has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes can be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the disclosure. For example the above described process flows are described with reference to a particular ordering of process actions. However the ordering of many of the described process actions can be changed without affecting the scope or operation of the disclosure. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than in a restrictive sense.

