---

title: Executing commands embedded in messages
abstract: A communication server, computer-readable storage medium, and computer-implemented method for executing commands embedded in messages are provided. The method may include accessing a message that is being routed through a communication server. The message may include a command operator that is operative to execute an action performed by a network-based service executing on an application server. The method may further include identifying the command operator included in the message, and transmitting a request to the application server to perform the action corresponding thereto.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584454&OS=09584454&RS=09584454
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09584454
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140529
---
This application is a non provisional of and claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 986 781 entitled EXECUTING COMMANDS EMBEDDED IN MESSAGES filed on Apr. 30 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This patent document pertains generally to data processing systems and more particularly but not by way of limitation to executing commands embedded in messages.

Messaging platforms such as electronic mail email services instant messaging services and social network messaging applications allow users to exchange information through messages. Information conveyed in messages often prompts a recipient to carry out follow up actions such as adding a task to a task list or saving the file to a particular location. Typically these follow up actions must be manually performed by the user using tools applications and other services that are external to the messaging platform. As a result users productivity is decreased and time is wasted because the users must constantly toggle back and forth between multiple different tools and multiple different message platforms.

Reference will now be made in detail to specific example embodiments for carrying out the inventive subject matter. Examples of these specific embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It will be understood that they are not intended to limit the scope of the claims to the described embodiments. On the contrary they are intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the scope of the disclosure. In the following description specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter. Embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In accordance with the present disclosure components process steps and data structures may be implemented using various types of operating systems programming languages computing platforms computer programs and or general purpose machines.

Aspects of the present disclosure include systems and methods to execute commands embedded in messages. The system may allow users who are composing messages to include one or more commands that may be automatically executed upon sending or receiving the message. Consistent with some embodiments the system may provide users with a selectable list of predefined commands that may be used to invoke certain functionality. For example the list may include a command that when included in a message automatically causes a task to be created for use with a task management service. In another example the list may include a command that when included in a message automatically causes the message or a portion thereof to be saved in a particular directory or file within a document management system.

Consistent with some embodiments the system may access messages routed through one or more communication servers which are responsible for handling communications between users. The system may then parse the messages to identify commands. Upon identifying a command within a particular message the system may transmit a request to execute the command to a network based service capable of executing the command. As used herein network based service refers to an application executing on a server or other networked machine that provides data storage manipulation presentation communication or other such capability over a network e.g. the Internet . Such network based services may include those services that are internal to the system as well as third party services that are external to the system. The network based services may for example include services such as task management bug or issue tracking document management file hosting messaging or content publishing.

As shown in the front end consists of one or more user interface modules e.g. a web server which receive requests from various client computing devices and communicate appropriate responses to the requesting client devices. For example the user interface module s may receive requests from client devices in the form of Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP requests or other web based application programming interface API requests. The client devices not shown may be executing conventional web browser applications or applications that have been developed for a specific platform to include any of a wide variety of mobile devices and operating systems. The user interface module s may also be configured to provide graphical user interface elements to prompt users for information and to receive such information from the users.

As shown the logic tier includes an application server that may host a number of network based services such as task management and issue ticketing and tracking among others. The application server in conjunction with the user interface module generates various user interfaces e.g. web pages with data retrieved from various data sources in the data tier. In some embodiments individual application servers such as the application server may be used to implement the functionality associated with various services and features of the social network service . For instance the ability of an organization to establish a presence in the social graph of the social network service including the ability to establish a customized web page on behalf of an individual or organization and to publish messages or status updates on behalf of an individual or organization may be services implemented in independent application servers . Similarly a variety of other applications or services that are made available to members of the social network service may be embodied in their own application servers . For instance the social network service is also illustrated in to include a communication server hosting a messaging application that may provide a number of messaging services to users. As an example the messaging application may be used for generating and delivering messages to users of the social network service or other external internet users. The communication server may employ a number of message delivery networks and platforms to deliver messages. For example the communication server may deliver e mail instant message IM push notifications Short Message Service SMS messages or other text based electronic messages via a wired e.g. the Internet or wireless e.g. mobile cellular WiFi WiMax networks.

While the communication server and the messaging application are shown in to form part of the social network service it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments communication server and the messaging application may form part of a service that is separate and distinct from the social network service .

As shown in the data tier includes several databases including a member profile database for storing general information contained on a social network profile including general contact information employer information and educational institution information as well as information concerning various online or offline groups. Member profile database may contain information for member profiles for only a single social network profile or profiles on several different social networks. As used herein member or user refers to an individual e.g. a person an entity a business e.g. a company an organization a group of people a bot or any combination thereof that utilizes the services provided by the social network service .

Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of a social network service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birth date gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors etc. current job title job description industry employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored for example in the member profile database . Similarly when a representative of an organization initially registers the organization with the social network service the representative may be prompted to provide certain information about the organization. This information may be stored for example in the member profile database .

Member profile database may also contain contact information such as lists of contacts previous employers interests organizational affiliations and personal and professional addresses phone numbers and websites. In some embodiments the profile data may be processed e.g. in the background or offline to generate various derived profile data. For example if a member has provided information about various job titles the member has held with the same or different companies and for how long this information can be used to infer or derive a member profile attribute indicating the member s overall seniority level or seniority level within a particular company. In some embodiments importing or otherwise accessing data from one or more externally hosted data sources may enhance profile data for both members and organizations. For instance with companies in particular financial data may be imported from one or more external data sources and made part of a company s profile.

As shown in the data tier also includes social graph database which is a particular type of database that uses graph structures with nodes edges and properties to represent and store data. Of course in various alternative embodiments any number of other entities might be included in the social graph and as such various other databases may be used to store data corresponding with other entities.

Once registered a member of social network service may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service . A connection may require a bilateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least in some embodiments does not call for acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive automatic notifications about various activities undertaken by the member being followed. In addition to following another member a user may elect to follow a company a topic a conversation or some other entity. Similarly when a member follows an organization the member becomes eligible to receive messages or status updates published on behalf of the organization. For instance messages or status updates published on behalf of an organization that a member is following will appear in the member s personalized data feed. For purposes of the present disclosure the term connection shall include both the bilateral agreement by both members and the unilateral operation of following . The various associations and relationships that the members establish with other members or with other entities and objects are stored and maintained within the social graph database .

The social network service may also provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized or personalized to the interests of the member. For example the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. As such at least in some embodiments a photograph may be a property or entity included within a social graph. Members of the social network service may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. Accordingly the data for a group may be stored in social graph database . When a member joins a group his or her membership in the group will be reflected in the social graph data stored in the social graph database . In some embodiments members may subscribe to or join groups affiliated with one or more companies. For instance in some embodiments members of the social network service may indicate an affiliation with a company at which they are employed such that news and events pertaining to the company are automatically communicated to the members. In some embodiments members may be allowed to subscribe to receive information concerning companies other than the company with which they are employed. Here again membership in a group a subscription or following relationship with a company or group as well as an employment relationship with a company are all examples of the different types of relationships that may exist between different entities as defined by the social graph and modeled with the social graph data of the social graph database .

As a member interacts with various applications services and content made available via the social network service the member s behavior e.g. content viewed links or buttons selected messages responded to etc. may be tracked and information concerning the member s activities and behavior may be logged or stored for example as indicated in by behavior database . This information may be used to classify the member as being in various categories. For example if the member performs frequent searches of job listings thereby exhibiting behavior indicating that the member is a likely job seeker this information can be used to classify the member as a job seeker. This classification can then be used as a member profile attribute for purposes of enabling others to target the member for receiving messages or status updates. Accordingly a company that has available job openings can publish a message that is specifically directed to certain members of the social network service who are job seekers and thus more likely to be receptive to recruiting efforts. For purposes of this disclosure the term social data may be used to collectively refer to the data stored in databases and .

It shall be appreciated that although illustrates the data tier as including databases and the data tier is not limited to databases and and may include additional databases for storing various other types of data. Further while each of the databases and have been described as storing particular types of data the databases and may also store various other data and resources to support the functionality described herein.

The social network service may provide an application programming interface API module by which third party applications hosted by a third party server may access various services and data provided by the social network service consistent with some embodiments. For example using an API a third party application may provide a user interface and logic that enables an authorized representative of an organization to publish messages from a third party application to various data feeds maintained by the social network service . Such third party applications may be browser based applications or may be operating system specific. In particular some third party applications may reside and execute on one or more mobile devices e.g. phone or tablet computing devices having a mobile operating system.

The third party server may be coupled to a network for example via wired or wireless interfaces. The network may be a LAN a WAN the Internet or another packet switched data network. Accordingly a variety of different configurations are expressly contemplated.

At operation a message sender composes a message to a message recipient using a client device communicatively coupled e.g. over a network such as the Internet to the outbound communication server. In addition to conveying information to the message recipient the message may also include a command that when executed automatically invokes certain functionality. The command also referred to herein as command operator may be a text based phrase or keyword that is operative to invoke an action performed by a network based service e.g. hosted by the application server or third party server . Each command operator may comprise a command term e.g. a word or phrase and in some embodiments a special character or set of special characters. For example the body of the message may include task which is a command operator that when executed e.g. by a network based task management service causes a task to be created from the message and assigned to the message recipient. The action corresponding to the command operator may be related to or executed upon at least a portion of the message or in some alternative embodiments the action may be independent of the message and its contents. At operation the message sender may elect e.g. through appropriate user input such as selecting a Submit or Send button to send the message to the message recipient.

At operation the outbound communication server may parse the message to identify the command operator. The parsing performed by the outbound communication server may utilize one of several known natural language processing methodologies. The outbound communication server may for example identify the command operator based on the use of a command term corresponding to a list of predefined command operators. Further the use of a concatenated special character or set of special characters with the command term e g. task or bug may signal the outbound communication server that a command operator as opposed to plain text is included in the message.

At operation the outbound communication server may transmit a request e.g. an API call to the application server e.g. application server or third party server to execute the command. At operation the application server hosting the applicable network based service receives the request to execute the command. At operation the application server executes the command. The execution of the command by the application server involves performing one or more actions e.g. provided by the network based service with respect to the message. In an example the message includes the command operator bug which when executed by the network based service e.g. issue ticketing service causes an issue ticket for the message to be created and stored for follow up and tracking. The command operator bug may further cause the application server to transmit a notification to appropriate personnel to notify them of the issue.

At operation which may be performed in parallel with operation the outbound communication server transmits the message to the message recipient e.g. to an email address phone number or user account . At operation the inbound communication server receives the message and routes the message to the recipient. The inbound communication server may also cause the message to be stored in a database e.g. database or for later retrieval.

Consistent with some embodiments the outbound communication server the inbound communication server or both may correspond to the communication server . Further in some alternative embodiments the inbound communication server as opposed to the outbound communication server may perform operations and subsequent to receiving message at operation . In some embodiments the communication server may correspond to an email server.

The message generation module may enable users to generate messages to be exchanged with other users. As such the message generation module may work in conjunction with the user interface module s to provide users with a graphical user interface GUI for message generation that provides users with the ability to compose messages and address them to one or more recipient users. In some instances such GUIs may further provide users the ability to attach or embedded content items such as images or videos to messages.

Consistent with some embodiments the message generation module may assist users in including command operators in messages so that certain actions may be automatically performed in response to a message being sent. To this end the message generation module may in conjunction with the user interface module s provide users with a selectable list e.g. a dropdown menu of a predefined set of command operators. The selectable list of predefined command operators may be displayed in conjunction with the message generation GUI in a separate window or frame. In some embodiments the selectable list of predefined command operators may be displayed to a user in response to the user entering a special character e.g. associated with command operators while composing a message within the message generation GUI. Upon receiving a selection of a command operator from a user the message generation module may cause the command operator to be inserted in the message without the user having to manually enter the characters of the command operator. The command operators included in the list may correspond to respective actions performed by a network based service. Further command operators corresponding to actions provided by various different network based services may be included in the list. For example the list may include a command operator corresponding to an action performed by a network based task management service and another command operator corresponding to network based issue tracking service.

The parsing module may be configured to detect in inclusion of one or more command operators in messages. To this end the parsing module may parse incoming and outgoing messages according to one of many known natural language processing techniques. Consistent with some embodiments the identification of a command operator may include detecting the use of a special character such as or in conjunction with the command term which indicates to the parsing module that a command operator as opposed to plain text is included in the message. The parsing module may further detect the inclusion of a command term that is used in conjunction with the special character s . The identification of the command term may be based on a comparison of the terms used in a message with a list of command terms that are linked to known command operators.

The command execution module may be configured to cause the execution of commands identified by the parsing module . Each command operator may correspond to an action provided by one of multiple network based services. Network based services may be hosted by the application server forming part of the social network service or may alternatively be hosted by a third party server . As such the operation of executing commands performed by the command execution module may include transmitting one or more requests to the application server or third party server hosting the network based service to perform the action corresponding to the command. The request may also include contextual information such as a timestamp geo location data a device identifier and a user identifier among other information. Consistent with some embodiments such requests may correspond to API calls e.g. to an API server providing programmatic access to the application server or third party server to invoke functionality of the network based service. The command execution module may therefore be configured to generate various API calls and to format each API call according to conventions of the APIs of the applicable network based service. For example the command execution module may format each API call to include the specific parameters needed by the API of the applicable network based service to carry out the action specified by the command operator.

At operation the message generation module may present or cause presentation of a message generation GUI on a client device of a user of the social network service . The message generation GUI provides the user with the ability to compose one or more messages and address or direct e.g. using an email address phone number or user profile them to one or more recipient users. In some instances such GUIs may further provide users the ability to attach or embedded content items such as images or videos to messages.

At operation the message generation module may detect user input of a special character e.g. or while the user is composing a message. The special character may be a non alphanumeric character that is linked to command operators and as such the input of the special character signals the message generation module that the user intends to include a command operator in the message. Consistent with some embodiments the special character may also be used while processing the message to signal the parsing module that a command operator is included in the message.

Responsive to detection of the user inputting the special character the message generation module may present or cause presentation of a selectable list of command operators to the user at operation . The list of command operators may include each command operator available for use with the messaging application . Each command operator included in the list of command operators may be operative to invoke an action performed by a network based service. Further the list of command operators may include actions that are performed by multiple different network based services that may be either internal e.g. executing on the application server or external e.g. executing on the third party server to the social network service . In an example a command operator such as task may be used for creating a task from the message for use within a task management system. In another example a command operator such as everyone may be used for sending a push notification to one or more message recipients about or announcing the message. In this example the command operator may override settings of the one or more users that dictate that push notification not be received. In yet another example a command operator such as encrypt my be used to encrypt the message. In still another example a command operator such as bug may be used to create a bug or issue tracking report also referred to as a bug fix ticket to track the status of a hug or other known issue with an application or tool.

At operation the message generation module may receive a user selection of a command operator from the list of command operators. At operation the message generation module may cause the selected command operator to be included in the message. In this manner the command operator is included in the message without the user having to enter in each character of the command operator. It shall be appreciated that in other embodiments a user may manually input a command operator without having to select the command operator from the selectable list of command operators.

At operation the parsing module may access a message routed through the communication server . The communication server through which the message is routed may be the outbound or the inbound communication server. The message may be any one of a varied of message types including for example an email an IM an SMS message or other text based message.

At operation the parsing module may identify a command operator included in the message. The command operator is a text string comprising a command term and in some embodiments one or more special characters. The command operator corresponds to an action performed by a network based service. The command operator may be identified by parsing the message e.g. according to natural language processing and identifying a known command term that may in some embodiments be used in conjunction with one or more special characters. The network based service may be executing on the application server of the social network service or a third party server . In some embodiments the action may be an action performed on or using the message itself while in some alternative embodiments the action is independent of the message. The action may for example correspond to creating a task for use with a task management system sending a push notification encrypting the message creating an issue or bug fix ticket publishing content or storing the message or a portion of its contents in a particular location e.g. a file or directory of an electronic document management system or file hosting service.

At operation responsive to identifying the command operator e.g. performed by the parsing module the command execution module may transmit a request to the network based service to perform the action. The request may correspond to an API call or series of API calls made to an API provided by the network based service. The transmitting of the request may include formatting the request according to the conventions of the network based service corresponding to the command operator. Consistent with some embodiments the request may provide the network based service with contextual information such as a timestamp geo location data a device ID a user ID or any combination thereof.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied 1 on a non transitory machine readable medium or 2 in a transmission signal or hardware implemented modules. A hardware implemented module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more processors may be configured by software e.g. application or application portion as a hardware implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware implemented module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware implemented module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware implemented module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware implemented module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware implemented module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily or transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware implemented modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware implemented modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware implemented modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware implemented modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware implemented module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware implemented module at a different instance of time.

Hardware implemented modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware implemented modules. Accordingly the described hardware implemented modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware implemented modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware implemented modules . In embodiments in which multiple hardware implemented modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware implemented modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware implemented modules have access. For example one hardware implemented module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware implemented module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware implemented modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least sonic of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least sonic of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer hardware firmware or software or in combinations of these. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network . The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures merit consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or in a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions e.g. the instructions for execution by the computer system and that cause the computer system to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present inventive subject matter or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions . The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks plain old telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

