---

title: Water control system for sprinkler nozzle
abstract: A sprinkler. A stationary base includes a turbine to drive an upper housing. A plurality of sprinkler nozzle assemblies mounted on the upper housing include low voltage solenoids that are energized via slip ring contacts, with a power discontinuous slip ring located on the base. When powered, the solenoids open to allow water to be directed from the nozzle in the sprinkler nozzle assembly. the nozzles are sized, shaped, and directed to apportion water as needed to provide average water quantities amongst parts of irregularly shaped parcels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09108206&OS=09108206&RS=09108206
owner: 
number: 09108206
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140312
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The patent owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This application claims priority from prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 801 867 filed Mar. 15 2013 entitled WATER CONTROL SYSTEM FOR SPRINKLER NOZZLE the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety including the specification drawing and claims by this reference.

This invention relates to lawn sprinklers and more particularly to lawn sprinklers adapted for use in watering a water receiving area having a non uniform shape.

Water sprinklers of various designs have been utilized for many years. However many of the currently utilized sprinklers are designed to provide water over a circular area that is of relatively uniform diameter. A few designs have the ability to water over selected receiving areas that are shaped as relatively circular arc portions. One of my prior patents namely U.S. Pat. No. 7 988 071 issued Aug. 2 2011 for a LAWN SPRINKLER provides designs for attacking some aspects of the problem of watering irregularly shaped parcels. Also my U.S. Provisional Patent Application filed Mar. 15 2013 as Ser. No. 61 799 760 addresses such issues. The disclosure of each of those prior cases is incorporated herein in their entirety by this reference 

Significant amounts of water are wasted due to the inability of the general public to obtain and install lawn sprinklers that are capable of watering non uniform or irregularly shaped areas specifically and exclusively where water is needed rather than applying a water stream relatively indiscriminately over an area that may include features where water is not required such as driveways or sidewalks.

Since water is increasingly scarce and or increasingly costly in many locales whether as a result of increased fees from the utility provider or as a result of energy costs for pumping or otherwise there remains a need for a law sprinkler apparatus that can reliably provide the needed water over the required area while minimizing or eliminating the application of water to adjacent areas which do not require the application of water.

Thus there remains an unmet need for an improved lawn sprinkler with suitable features and mechanical workings that would direct available water to those areas needing water while avoiding application of water to those areas which do not require watering.

A lawn sprinkler has now been developed with water distribution nozzles that are provided with water via valves that are opened and closed according to a predefined pattern. By using such a lawn sprinkler apparatus the volume of water actually applied to a particular portion of a lawn is appropriate for the size and shape of the area that is watered even when the water is applied over an area having a non circular shape or irregular geometric pattern.

In one embodiment the sprinkler apparatus includes a base configured to confiningly receive a pressurized water flow and a sprinkler nozzle assembly coupled to the base for rotating movement with respect to the base. A turbine drive mechanism is coupled to an upper housing on which a plurality of sprinkler nozzle assemblies are affixed. The drive mechanism includes water driven impeller and a gear train adapted for operatively driving the upper housing and associated sprinkler nozzle assemblies in rotary movement.

One or more and in various embodiments a plurality of solenoid operated water flow valves are provided to regulate the water flow outward from the nozzle in a predetermined pattern consistent with the size and shape of the area to be watered. A slip ring system for supply of electricity to the solenoid is provided. In an embodiment water flow valves are provided in a normally closed position wherein electrical energy urges the valve toward an open position. Thus a spring in the solenoid urges the valve toward a closed position by compression of the spring unless the solenoid is energized.

A water outlet nozzle is provided to deliver water in a given direction generally in a preselected area pattern. In an embodiment the solenoid mechanism may be operative to open and close the water flow valves in response to the slip ring mechanism so that the water outlet nozzles only discharge water in the desired amounts in a selected direction.

The foregoing briefly describes a lawn sprinkler apparatus having valves to regulate the flow of water to provide a substantially uniform quantity of water per unit area of lawn even in non circular or irregular geometric shapes. However the developments described herein will be more readily understood upon consideration of the following detailed description taken in conjunction with careful examination of the accompanying figures of the drawing.

The foregoing figures being merely exemplary contain various elements that may be present or omitted from actual apparatus that may be constructed to provide various embodiments for covers for rotating sprinklers or to various configurations for operation thereof or to methods for use thereof. An attempt has been made to draw the figures in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of the components of an embodiment for useful low voltage slip ring energized multi solenoid sprinklers as taught herein. However various other elements for such apparatus or for installation and use of the same may be utilized in order to provide useful embodiments for covers for sprinklers particularly for use on irregularly shaped water receiving parcels according to the concepts disclosed herein.

In the various figures of the drawing like features may be illustrated with the same reference numerals without further mention thereof. Further the foregoing figures are merely exemplary and may contain various elements that might be present or omitted from actual implementations of various embodiments depending upon the circumstances. The features as illustrated provide an exemplary embodiment for a sprinkler that may control the amount of water provided to specific locations of a parcel of land and to water volume applied along a radial length at the same time through selection of nozzle characteristics and to regulation of the amount of water provided to such nozzles through a slip ring energized solenoid controlled valve. An attempt has been made to draw the figures in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of the various embodiments and aspects of the invention. However various other elements of a lawn sprinkler with valve and sprinkler assembly designs or gear train designs especially as applied for different variations of the functional components illustrated as well as different embodiments such as a shape of components or final design of various elements may be utilized in order to provide a useful reliable lawn sprinkler design constructed according to the designs described herein that may be useful for minimizing waste of water and in normalizing the application rate of water on an irrigation volume per square foot or similar basis over areas of a lawn particularly for irregular or other non circular lawn shapes.

Attention is directed to of the drawing which provides a perspective view of an exemplary sprinkler for watering a non circular irregular shaped lawn such as lawns illustrated in . In and it can be seen that sprinkler is set up to water non circular parcel of land . In such parcel it can be seen that when sprinkler is watering along relatively short radials R R and R the amount of water is needed along such radial lengths per unit of time is not as much as would be required for the same unit of time along the longer radial lengths R R and Ras shown in . To address this problem we have developed a novel sprinkler in which a base is provided having an upper housing rotatably attached thereto. In an embodiment the upper housing may be set up mechanically to rotate in a selected direction as indicated by reference arrow in . As upper housing rotates the water flow rate from nozzles N see starts or stops or stays constantly on or stays off as required in order to regulate limit or prevent water from being delivered nozzles N N or N. For the watering of relatively short radials R R and Ras shown in the amount of water provided through nozzles N may be reduced for example by providing water to two rather than three nozzles N as noted in during the time that the group of nozzles N rotates through such angular direction s . For the watering of relatively long radial lengths R R and R the water flow rate increases by selection of nozzles N with larger diameter D openings or by using three of three nozzles N rather than two in order to provide more water to via nozzles N for watering along the relatively longer radials R R and R. Novel construction of sprinkler which enables such metered delivery of water to a parcel of land will be further described below.

Attention is directed to which shows a vertical perspective view for an embodiment of sprinkler . The sprinkler includes a base which is stationary relative to upper housing which rotates. Note however as mentioned below and shown in an apparatus such as sprinkler may be fitted with an outer housing surrounding upper housing to hide the sprinkler nozzle assemblies including solenoids S Sand S from view.

Returning now to a rotatable upper housing is mounted on sprinkler base . At least one sprinkler nozzle assembly Ais secured to and rotatable with the upper housing . Generally a sprinkler nozzle assembly Aincludes the solenoid S the related valve V and the output nozzle N. In most embodiments a plurality of nozzle assemblies such as nozzle assemblies A A and A as shown in will be provided. In various embodiments nozzle assemblies may be provided in groups. For example nozzle assemblies A A and Aconstitute a first or A group of nozzle assemblies. In an embodiment a group may arranged in a vertically aligned fashion as shown in where A A and Aare located one above the other along vertical centerline C. In various embodiments water may enter at the bottom as indicated by reference arrow W.

Attention is directed to which shows a vertical cross sectional view of an embodiment for a sprinkler . Pressurized water W is received at inlet of lower housing of base . The lower housing has an inner sidewall that contains pressurized water W. The base has a water W driven inlet turbine operably fixed therein. A gear train having an output gear responsive to the inlet turbine is provided. In an embodiment output gear is a pinion gear that drives annular gear in upper housing . In an embodiment portions of the gear train may be sheltered from flow of water W by a gear housing .

As seen in a set of discontinuous slip ring contacts K is provided. The set of discontinuous slip rings includes a ground ring and powered segments fixed on the base . The powered segments are connected with a low voltage power source not shown for energizing the solenoid valves S and the like. Each of the solenoids Sand the like have a hot or powered contact for intermittently receiving power from the discontinuous powered segments . Likewise each of the solenoids S and the like have an electrical connection to ground contact that slidingly interacts with the continuous ground ring as the upper housing is rotated. In an embodiment a single ground contact may be provided for all solenoids S on a sprinkler or for all solenoids S in a group of solenoids. In any event during rotation of the upper housing the discontinuous slip ring contacts turn said solenoid valve on when adjacent the powered segments and off when not adjacent powered segments to thereby control output of water from a particular nozzle N in a sprinkler valve assembly V by turning off solenoid S. Powered and ground electrical lines are diagrammatically shown in . and schematically show the rotary electrical contact non contact situation as viewed from above. These figures also show different nozzles N having outlets of differing diameter D wherein different coverage distances may be obtained for watering.

In various embodiments a plurality of sprinkler nozzle assemblies may be provided and a solenoid valve V may be provided for each sprinkler nozzle assembly A. In an embodiment as seen in for example the upper housing may have a first side and a first group of sprinkler nozzle assemblies A A A etc. are provided on the first side each having a nozzle therein. In other embodiments an upper housing may have a second side where a second group of sprinkler nozzle assemblies not shown each including nozzles may be provided. In various embodiments the upper housing may include X sides wherein X is a positive integer and a group of sprinkler nozzle assemblies may be provided on each of the X sides. As illustrated in sprinkler nozzle assemblies A etc. in each group of sprinkler nozzle assemblies may be mounted in a vertical array one above another. In various embodiments the outlet diameter D of nozzles N in each group of sprinkler nozzle assemblies may vary between sprinkler nozzle assemblies in the vertical array.

It is to be appreciated that the various aspects features structures and embodiments of a lawn sprinkler with flow regulator for substantially uniform delivery of water on a volume per square foot of lawn as described herein is a significant improvement in the state of the art. The lawn sprinkler design is simple reliable and easy to use. Although only a few exemplary aspects and embodiments have been described in detail various details are sufficiently set forth in the drawing figures and in the specification provided herein to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention s which need not be further described by additional writing.

In the foregoing description numerous details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed exemplary embodiments for providing lawn sprinklers for watering irregularly shaped parcels. However certain of the described details may not be required in order to provide useful embodiments or to practice selected or other disclosed embodiments. Further the description may include for descriptive purposes various relative terms such as surface adjacent proximity near on onto and the like. Such usage should not be construed as limiting. Terms that are relative only to a point of reference are not meant to be interpreted as absolute limitations but are instead included in the foregoing description to facilitate understanding of the various aspects of the disclosed embodiments. Various items in the apparatus and in the method s described herein may have been described as multiple discrete items in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding such aspects and details. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that such items or sequence of operations are necessarily order dependent or that it is imperative to fully complete one step before starting another. For example the choice of where and how to mount a set of nozzles or selection of outlet diameters of such nozzles may be determined by a particular parcel to be watered and may be different as regards installation particulars amongst various situations for example depending on water pressure available and the amount of water desired to be directed to the parcel. Further certain details of installation may not need to be performed in the precise or exact order of presentation herein. And in different embodiments one or more items may be performed simultaneously or eliminated in part or in whole while other items may be added. Also the reader will note that the phrase an embodiment has been used repeatedly. This phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. Finally the terms comprising having and including should be considered synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise.

Various aspects and embodiments described and claimed herein may be modified from those shown without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided by developments described herein and may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Embodiments presented herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive or limiting. This disclosure is intended to cover methods and apparatus described herein and not only structural equivalents thereof but also equivalent structures. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore the protection afforded to this invention should be limited only by the claims set forth herein and the legal equivalents thereof.

