---

title: Splash condition detection for vehicles
abstract: Arrangements relate to the operation of a vehicle, which can be an autonomous vehicle. A splash condition in a surrounding environment of the vehicle can be detected. An object near the vehicle can be detected. Further, it can be determined whether the detected object is passing the vehicle. Responsive to detecting a splash condition and determining that the object is passing the vehicle, a warning can be presented to an occupant of the vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09428194&OS=09428194&RS=09428194
owner: Toyota Motor Engineering & Manufacturing North America, Inc.
number: 09428194
owner_city: Erlanger
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141211
---
The subject matter described herein relates in general to vehicles and more particularly to the operation of vehicles in environments in which reduced visibility conditions can develop.

Some motor vehicles are configured to operate in an autonomous mode to assist in the transportation of passengers from an origin to a destination. In such a mode the vehicle uses computing systems to navigate a vehicle with reduced or no input from a driver. An autonomous vehicle typically includes sensors configured to detect information about the surrounding environment such as the presence of other vehicles. The computing systems are configured to process the detected information to determine how to navigate the vehicle through the environment. Various environmental conditions can interfere with the operation of the sensors which can reduce the operational performance of such vehicles.

In one respect the present disclosure is directed to a method of operating a vehicle. The method can include detecting a splash condition in a surrounding environment of the vehicle. The method can also include detecting an object near the vehicle. Further the method can include determining whether the detected object is passing the vehicle. Responsive to detecting a splash condition and determining that the object is passing the vehicle the method can include presenting a warning to an occupant of the vehicle.

In another respect the present disclosure is directed to a system for a vehicle. The system includes a processor. The processor can be programmed to initiate executable operations. The executable operations can include detecting a splash condition in a surrounding environment of the vehicle. The executable operations can also include detecting an object near the vehicle. The executable operations can further include determining whether the detected object is passing the vehicle. Responsive to detecting a splash condition and determining the object is passing the vehicle the executable operations can include presenting a warning to an occupant of the vehicle.

In a further respect the present disclosure is directed to a computer program product for operating a vehicle in a present environment. The computer program product includes a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith. The program code can be executable by a processor to perform a method. The method can include detecting a splash condition in a surrounding environment of the vehicle. The method can also include detecting an object near the vehicle. Further the method can include determining whether the object is passing the vehicle. Responsive to detecting a splash condition and determining that the object is passing the vehicle the method can include presenting a warning to an occupant of the vehicle.

In another respect the present disclosure is directed to a method of operating a vehicle operating in an autonomous mode. The method can include detecting a splash condition in a surrounding environment of the vehicle. The method can also include detecting a forward object or a rearward object in the same travel lane as the vehicle. The method can further include detecting an object traveling in a travel lane that is adjacent to the travel lane in which the vehicle is located. The method can also include determining whether the object is passing the vehicle. Responsive to detecting a splash condition and determining the object is passing the vehicle the method can include adjusting the distance between the vehicle and the forward object and or the rearward object. Alternatively or in addition the method can include adjusting the distance between the vehicle and the object passing the vehicle.

In yet another respect the present disclosure is directed to a system for operating a vehicle operating in an autonomous mode. The system includes a processor. The processor can be programmed to initiate executable operations. The executable operations can include detecting a splash condition in a surrounding environment of the vehicle. The executable operations can also include detecting whether a forward object or a rearward object is located in the same travel lane as the vehicle. Further the executable operations can include detecting an object traveling in a travel lane that is adjacent to the travel lane in which the vehicle is located. Still further the executable operations can include determining whether the object is passing the vehicle. Responsive to detecting a splash condition and determining the object is passing the vehicle the executable operations can include adjusting the distance between the vehicle and the forward object and or the rearward object. Alternatively or in addition the executable operations can include adjusting the distance between the vehicle and the object passing the vehicle.

This detailed description relates to the operation of a vehicle located in an environment in which a splash condition may be present. More particularly arrangements described herein relate to situations in which a splash condition is detected and another object e.g. another vehicle is determined to be passing the present vehicle in an adjacent travel lane. Responsive to such detection and determination one or more actions can occur. As an example in one or more arrangements a warning can be presented. The present detailed description relates to systems methods and computer program products that incorporate such features. In at least some instances such systems methods and computer program products can among other things facilitate the safety of the passengers of the vehicle and or minimize low visibility driving conditions or events from developing.

Detailed embodiments are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are intended only as exemplary. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the aspects herein in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of possible implementations. Various embodiments are shown in but the embodiments are not limited to the illustrated structure or application.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where appropriate reference numerals have been repeated among the different figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments described herein can be practiced without these specific details.

Referring to an example a vehicle is shown. As used herein vehicle means any form of motorized transport. In one or more implementations the vehicle can be an automobile. While arrangements will be described herein with respect to automobiles it will be understood that embodiments are not limited to automobiles. In some implementations the vehicle may be a watercraft an aircraft or any other form of motorized transport.

In some arrangements the vehicle can be an autonomous vehicle. As used herein autonomous vehicle means a vehicle that is configured to operate in an autonomous mode using one or more computing systems to navigate and or maneuver a vehicle along a travel route with minimal or no input from a human driver. In some arrangements the vehicle can be a manual vehicle. Manual vehicle means a vehicle that is configured to operate in a manual mode in which a majority of the navigation and or maneuvering of a vehicle along a travel route is performed by a human driver. In some arrangements the vehicle can be configured to be selectively switched between an autonomous mode and a manual mode. Such switching can be implemented in any suitable manner now known or later developed.

The vehicle can include various elements. Some of the possible elements are shown in will now be described. It will be understood that it is not necessary for the vehicle to have all of the elements shown in or described herein. The vehicle can have any combination of the various elements shown in . Further the vehicle can have additional elements to those shown in . In some arrangements the vehicle may not include one or more of the elements shown in . Further while the various elements are shown as being located within the vehicle in it will be understood that one or more of these elements can be located external to vehicle . Further the elements shown may be physically separated by any distance including large distances.

The vehicle can include one or more processors . Processor means any component or group of components that are configured to execute any of the processes described herein or any form of instructions to carry out such processes or cause such processes to be performed. The processor may be implemented with one or more general purpose and or one or more special purpose processors. Examples of suitable processors include microprocessors microcontrollers DSP processors and other circuitry that can execute software. Further examples of suitable processors include but are not limited to a central processing unit CPU an array processor a vector processor a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic array PLA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC programmable logic circuitry and a controller. The processor can include at least one hardware circuit e.g. an integrated circuit configured to carry out instructions contained in program code. In arrangements in which there is a plurality of processors such processors can work independently from each other or one or more processors can work in combination with each other. In one or more arrangements the processor can be a main processor of the vehicle . For instance the processor can be an engine control unit.

The vehicle can include one or more data stores for storing one or more types of data. The data store can include volatile and or non volatile memory. Examples of suitable data stores include RAM Random Access Memory flash memory ROM Read Only Memory PROM Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory registers magnetic disks optical disks hard drives or any other suitable storage medium or any combination thereof. The data store can be operatively connected to the processor for use thereby. The term operatively connected as used throughout this description can include direct or indirect connections including connections without direct physical contact.

The vehicle can include a driving module . If the vehicle is an autonomous vehicle then the driving module can be an autonomous driving module. The driving module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement one or more of the various processes described herein. The driving module and or the data store can be components of the processor or the driving module and or the data store can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected.

The driving module can include instructions e.g. program logic executable by the processor . Such instructions can include instructions to execute various vehicle functions and or to transmit data to receive data from interact with and or control the vehicle or one or more systems thereof e.g. one or more of vehicle systems . Alternatively or in addition the data store may contain instructions.

The vehicle can include a splash analysis module . The splash analysis module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement one or more of the various processes described herein. The splash analysis module can be a component of the processor and or the driving module . The splash analysis module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected.

The splash analysis module can be configured to determine whether at least a portion of the vehicle will be splashed with a substance. More particularly the splash analysis module can be configured to determine whether at least a portion of the vehicle will be splashed with a substance scattered by a detected object e.g. another vehicle . Still more particularly the splash analysis module can be configured to determine when at least a portion of the vehicle will be splashed with a substance scattered by a passing object e.g. a passing vehicle that is located in the same travel lane as the substance. The travel lane can be adjacent to the current travel lane of the vehicle . As used herein the phrases passing object and detected object is passing the vehicle mean that an object is passing or attempting to pass the present vehicle and is located in a travel lane substantially adjacent to the current travel lane of the present vehicle. The vehicle may be referred to herein as the present vehicle. The passing object may be traveling in the substantially the same direction or in a different direction e.g. substantially the opposite direction as the present vehicle. The passing object may or may not be traveling substantially parallel to the present vehicle. As used herein the term substantially includes exactly the term it modifies and slight variations therefrom. Thus the term substantially parallel means exactly parallel and slight variations therefrom.

 Splash means to cause something e.g. a substance fluid etc. to scatter in a flying mass. The splash analysis module can be configured to determine whether the passing vehicle will drive through the splash condition. The splash analysis module can be configured to predict and or determine the size and or direction of a splash resulting from the passing vehicle traveling through the splash condition. The splash analysis module can be configured to predict and or determine whether the vehicle will be at least partially contacted or covered with splash caused by the passing vehicle.

Such determinations and or predictions can be made in any suitable manner. For instance the splash analysis module can make such determinations and or predictions based on one or more of the following data inputs the length of the present vehicle see Lpv in the length of the passing vehicle see Lv in or other object the presence of a splash condition the size of the splash condition the identity of the substance of the splash condition the distance between the present vehicle and the splash condition see L in the distance between the passing vehicle and the splash condition see L in the speed of the present vehicle the speed of the passing vehicle the relative distance between the present vehicle and a passing vehicle the relative speed of the present vehicle and the passing vehicle the direction of travel of the present vehicle the direction of travel of the passing vehicle the size of the passing vehicle the relative size of the passing vehicle and or other input.

The vehicle can include a sensor system . The sensor system can include one or more sensors. Sensor means any device component and or system that can detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense something directly or indirectly. In arrangements in which the sensor system includes a plurality of sensors the sensors can work independently from each other or one or more of the sensors can work in combination with each other. The sensor system and or the one or more sensors can be operatively connected to the processor the data store the driving module and or other element of the vehicle .

The sensor system can include any suitable type of sensor. For example the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense information about the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense information about an environment in which the vehicle is located including information about objects in the environment. Such objects may be stationary object or moving objects. Alternatively or in addition to one or more of the above examples the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense the location of the vehicle other vehicles and or other objects in the environment. Various examples of these and other types of sensors will be described herein. It will be understood that the embodiments are not limited to the particular sensors described.

The sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense position and orientation changes of the vehicle such as for example based on inertial acceleration. The sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense the speed of the vehicle . In one or more arrangements the sensor system can include accelerometers gyroscopes and or other suitable sensors. The sensor system can include sensors that can monitor one or more internal systems of the vehicle e.g. an Omonitor a fuel gauge an engine oil temperature coolant temperature etc. . The sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense one or more user inputs. As an example the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense whether a driver grabs or grips a steering wheel or other portion of the vehicle .

The sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to directly or indirectly detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense information about weather in a location area or region in which the vehicle is currently located or along a travel route. The one or more sensors can be configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense weather data in real time. As used herein the term real time means a level of processing responsiveness that a user or system senses as sufficiently immediate for a particular process or determination to be made or that enables the processor to keep up with some external process.

For instance the weather sensors can be operable to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense whether there is rain snow ice slush storms and or other weather conditions in the environment outside of the vehicle. The weather sensors the processor and or the splash analysis module can be configured to identify the substance. Alternatively or in addition the weather sensors can be operable to detect determine assess measure and or sense whether the road is wet and or whether there is a body of water or other fluid on the road. The weather sensors can be operable to detect determine assess measure and or sense the relative amount of a particular weather condition e.g. heavy rain v. light rain .

The sensor system or other suitable element of the vehicle can be configured to obtain weather information or data from any suitable source of weather data such as a weather database a weather news source an online weather database a weather related website the radio or other suitable source. Such data can include present past and or future weather data. Future weather data includes predicted conditions based on one or more factors. The weather data can include prevailing weather conditions and or road conditions e.g. wet roads snow on the roads etc. .

In one or more arrangements the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense objects in the environment in which the vehicle is located. The sensor system can be configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense the length speed and or heading of such objects. For instance the sensor system can detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense the presence of other vehicles. The sensor system can detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense distance between the present vehicle and a splash condition and or the distance between a detected other vehicle and the splash condition. The sensor system can be configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense the distance between the present vehicle and a forward vehicle or a rearward vehicle.

The sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense objects in the environment in which the vehicle is located using ultrasound. For instance one or more ultrasound sensors can be used to detect the presence of a splash condition e.g. a pool of water on a road based on the intensity of a reflected ultrasonic wave.

The sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense objects in the environment in which the vehicle is located using radio signals e.g. RADAR based sensors . In some arrangements the one or more sensors can be configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense the length speed and or heading of such objects.

The sensor system can include one or more sensors can be configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense objects in the environment in which the vehicle is located using lasers. For instance the sensors can be or included as part of a laser rangefinder or a LIDAR. Such devices can include a laser source and or laser scanner configured to emit a laser and a detector configured to detect reflections of the laser. The laser rangefinder or LIDAR may be configured to operate in a coherent or an incoherent detection mode. In some arrangements the one or more laser based sensors can be configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense the length speed and or heading of such objects.

The sensor system can include a camera . Camera is defined as any device component and or system that can capture an image. The camera can include a lens and an image capture element. The image capture element can be any suitable type of image capturing device or system including for example an area array sensor a Charge Coupled Device CCD sensor a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS sensor a linear array sensor a CCD monochrome . The image capturing element may capture images in any suitable wavelength on the electromagnetic spectrum. The image capturing element may capture color images and or grayscale images.

Alternatively or in addition to the above the sensor system can include other types of sensors. The processor can be operable to control movements of one or more of the sensors of the sensor system . It should be noted that any of the sensors described herein can be provided in any suitable location with respect to the vehicle . For instance one or more sensors can be located within the vehicle and or one or more sensors can be located on or exposed to the exterior of the vehicle.

In some arrangements the sensor system the processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module can be configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly one or more dimensions of a detected object. For instance based on data received from one or more sensors of the sensor system a direct measurement of one or more dimensions of a detected object can be determined. Examples of dimensions that can be detected determined assessed measured quantified and or sensed directly or indirectly include length width and or height.

In some arrangements the sensor system the processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module can be configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly a relative size of at least a portion of a detected object. In this regard a large object is any object that has one or more dimensions greater than a predetermined dimension or is otherwise presumed to be large based on one or more factors. A non large object is any object that has one or more dimensions less than a predetermined dimension or is otherwise presumed to be non large based on one or more factors.

The relative size of a detected object can be determined in any suitable manner. For instance a detected dimension of the object e.g. length width and or height can be compared to a predetermined dimension. The predetermined dimension can have any suitable value. In one or more arrangements if the detected dimension is greater than the predetermined dimension the object can be determined classified and or considered to be a large object. Such a comparison determination classification and or consideration can be made by for example the processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module . If the detected dimension is less than or equal to the predetermined dimension the object can be determined classified or considered to be a non large object.

In one or more arrangements the predetermined dimension can be a predetermined length. In such arrangements the relative size of a detected object can be determined with respect to the predetermined length. For example the length of an object can be detected. The detected length of the object can be compared to a predetermined length. The predetermined length can be any suitable length. In one or more arrangements the predetermined length can be substantially equal to the length of the present vehicle . In one or more arrangements such as in the case of smaller vehicles the predetermined length can be a value that is greater than the length of the present vehicle . In some arrangements if the detected length is greater than the predetermined length the object can be determined classified and or considered to be a large object. If the detected length is less than or equal to the predetermined length the object can be determined classified and or considered to be a non large object.

Alternatively or in addition the relative size of the object can be determined based on one or more inputs. For instance the sensor system can be configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the number of wheels or tires on a side of an object. Based on the number of detected wheels or tires the processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module can determine whether the object is a large object. For instance if more than two wheels are detected on a side of a surrounding object then it can be determined to be a large object e.g. a truck .

Alternatively or in addition the sensor system the processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module can be configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the size of the wheels or tires of an object. As an example the wheels or tires of the object can have an associated diameter and or radius. The size of the wheels or tires can be determined by a direct measurement of a diameter or radius of a wheel or tire. In some arrangements the detected diameter or radius of the tires or wheels can be compared to a predetermined diameter or radius. The predetermined diameter or radius can be any suitable value. In one or more arrangements the predetermined diameter or radius can be substantially equal to the diameter or radius of the present vehicle . In one or more arrangements such as in the case of vehicles with smaller wheels or tires the predetermined diameter or radius can be a value that is greater than the diameter or radius of the tires or wheels of the present vehicle . If the detected diameter or radius is greater than the predetermined diameter or radius the object can be determined to be a large or long object. If the detected diameter or radius is less than or equal to the predetermined diameter or radius the object can be determined classified and or considered to be a non large object. Such a comparison and or determination can be made by for example the processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module .

In some arrangements the vehicle can include a vehicle recognition module . The vehicle recognition module can include and or have access to a vehicle image database not shown . The vehicle image database can include one or more images of a plurality of different vehicles. The images may be of one or more portions of the exterior of at least a portion of a plurality of different vehicles. For instance the images can be of at least a portion of a vehicle. The images can be provided in any suitable format. The vehicle image database can be located on the vehicle such as in the data store or it can be located in a source external to the vehicle .

As an example the vehicle recognition module can also include any suitable vehicle recognition software. The vehicle recognition software can analyze an image captured by the camera . The vehicle recognition software can query the vehicle image database for possible matches. For instance images captured by the camera can be compared to any images in the vehicle image database for possible matches. Alternatively or in addition measurements or other aspects of an image captured by the camera or the other sensor s can be compared to measurements or other aspects of any images in the vehicle image database. The vehicle recognition module can assume that the detected object is a particular type of vehicle if there is a match between the captured image and an image in the vehicle database.

 Match or matches means that an image or other information collected by the sensor system and one or more of the images in the vehicle database are substantially identical. For instance the an image or other information collected by the sensor system and one or more of the images in the vehicle database can match within a predetermined probability e.g. at least about 85 at least about 90 at least about 95 or greater or confidence level.

The vehicle can include an input system for receiving input from a vehicle occupant e.g. a driver or a passenger . Any suitable input system can be used including for example a keypad display touch screen multi touch screen button joystick mouse trackball microphone and or combinations thereof.

The vehicle can include an output system for presenting information to the user. The output system can include a display. The display can be any suitable type of display. In one or more arrangements the display can be a touch screen display or a multi touch display. The touch screen can allow a user to engage or interact with one or more displayed elements such as a graphical user interface GUI and or other applications running on any vehicle system including any of those described herein through contact with the display. For example a user may make selections and or move a cursor by simply touching the display via a finger or stylus.

Alternatively or in addition the output system may include a microphone earphone and or speaker. Some components of the vehicle may serve as both a component of the input system and a component of the output system .

The vehicle can include one or more vehicle systems . Various examples of the one or more vehicle systems are shown in . However the vehicle can include more fewer or different systems. It should be appreciated that although particular vehicle systems are separately defined each or any of the systems or portions thereof may be otherwise combined or segregated via hardware and or software within the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a propulsion system . The propulsion system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to provide powered motion for the vehicle. The propulsion system can include an engine and an energy source.

The engine can be any suitable of engine or motor now known or later developed. For instance the engine can be an internal combustion engine an electric motor a steam engine and or a Stirling engine just to name a few possibilities. In some embodiments the propulsion system could include a plurality of engine types. For instance a gas electric hybrid vehicle can include a gasoline engine and an electric motor.

The energy source can be any suitable source of energy that can be used to at least partially power the engine. The engine can be configured to convert the energy source into mechanical energy. Examples of energy sources include gasoline diesel propane other compressed gas based fuels ethanol solar panels batteries and or other sources of electrical power. Alternatively or in addition the energy source can include fuel tanks batteries capacitors and or flywheels. In some embodiments the energy source can be used to provide energy for other systems of the vehicle.

The vehicle can include wheels or tires. Any suitable type of wheels or tires can be used. In one or more arrangements the wheels or tires of the vehicle can be configured to rotate differentially with respect to other wheels or tires. The wheels or tires can be made of any suitable material.

The vehicle can include a braking system . The braking system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to decelerate the vehicle. As an example the braking system can use friction to slow the wheels tires. The braking system can convert the kinetic energy of the wheels tires to electric current.

Further the vehicle can include a steering system . The steering system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to adjust the heading of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a throttle system . The throttle system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to control the operating speed of an engine motor of the vehicle and in turn the speed of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a transmission system . The transmission system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to transmit mechanical power from the engine motor of the vehicle to the wheels tires. For instance the transmission system can include a gearbox clutch differential drive shafts and or other elements. In arrangements where the transmission system includes drive shafts the drive shafts can include one or more axles that are configured to be coupled to the wheels tires.

The vehicle can include a signaling system . The signaling system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to provide illumination for the driver of the vehicle and or to provide information with respect to one or more aspects of the vehicle. For instance the signaling system can provide information regarding the vehicle s presence position size direction of travel and or the driver s intentions regarding direction and speed of travel. For instance the signaling system can include headlights taillights brake lights hazard lights and turn signal lights.

The vehicle can include a navigation system . The navigation system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems applications and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to determine the geographic location of the vehicle and or to determine a travel route for the vehicle .

The navigation system can include one or more mapping applications to determine a travel route for the vehicle . For instance a user may input an origin and a destination. The mapping application can determine one or more suitable travel routes between the origin and the destination. A travel route may be selected based on one or more parameters e.g. shortest travel distance shortest amount of travel time etc. . In some arrangements the navigation system can be configured to update the travel route dynamically while the vehicle is in operation.

The navigation system can include a global positioning system a local positioning system or a geolocation system. The navigation system can be implemented with any one of a number of satellite positioning systems such as the United States Global Positioning System GPS the Russian Glonass system the European Galileo system the Chinese Beidou system or any system that uses satellites from a combination of satellite systems or any satellite system developed in the future including the planned Chinese COMPASS system and the Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System. Further the navigation system can use Transmission Control Protocol TCP and or a Geographic information system GIS and location services.

The navigation system may include a transceiver configured to estimate a position of the vehicle with respect to the Earth. For example navigation system can include a GPS transceiver to determine the vehicle s latitude longitude and or altitude. The navigation system can use other systems e.g. laser based localization systems inertial aided GPS and or camera based localization to determine the location of the vehicle .

Alternatively or in addition the navigation system can be based on access point geolocation services such as using the W3C Geolocation Application Programming Interface API . With such a system the location of the vehicle can be determined through the consulting of location information servers including for example Internet protocol IP address Wi Fi and Bluetooth Media Access Control MAC address radio frequency identification RFID Wi Fi connection location or device GPS and Global System for Mobile Communications GSM code division multiple access CDMA cell IDs. Thus it will be understood that the specific manner in which the geographic position of the vehicle is determined will depend on the manner of operation of the particular location tracking system used.

In one or more arrangements the vehicle can include a switching system . The switching system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems applications and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to switching the operational mode from an autonomous mode to a manual mode and or from a manual mode to an autonomous mode. In some arrangements the vehicle can be configured to be selectively switched between an autonomous mode and a manual mode. Such switching can be implemented in any suitable manner now known or later developed. The switching system can be realized in hardware or a combination of hardware and software.

The processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module can be operatively connected to communicate with the various vehicle systems and or individual components thereof. For example returning to the processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module can be in communication to send and or receive information from the various vehicle systems to control the movement speed maneuvering heading direction etc. of vehicle . The processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module may control some or all of these vehicle systems and thus may be partially or fully autonomous.

The processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module may be operable to control the navigation and or maneuvering of the vehicle by controlling one or more of the vehicle systems and or components thereof. For instance when operating in an autonomous mode the processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module can control the direction and or speed of the vehicle . The processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module can cause the vehicle to accelerate e.g. by increasing the supply of fuel provided to the engine decelerate e.g. by decreasing the supply of fuel to the engine and or by applying brakes and or change direction e.g. by turning the front two wheels . As used herein cause or causing means to make force compel direct command instruct and or enable an event or action to occur or at least be in a state where such event or action may occur either in a direct or indirect manner.

The vehicle can include one or more actuators . The actuators can be any element or combination of elements operable to modify adjust and or alter one or more of the vehicle systems or components thereof to responsive to receiving signals or other inputs from the processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module . Any suitable actuator can be used. For instance the one or more actuators can include motors pneumatic actuators hydraulic pistons relays solenoids and or piezoelectric actuators just to name a few possibilities.

Now that the various one example of an environment in which the vehicle can operate is shown in . Again the vehicle may be referred to herein as the present vehicle. The vehicle can be traveling on a road . Road means a thoroughfare route path or way between two places and upon which a vehicle can travel. The road may be paved or otherwise improved to facilitate travel by a vehicle thereon. In some instances the road may be unpaved or undeveloped. The road may be a public road or a private road. The road may be designated for one way travel e.g. a one way street or the road can be designated for two way travel. The road can include or be a part of one or more bridges tunnels supporting structures junctions crossings interchanges and toll roads. The road can include a shoulder of a road.

The road can include one or more travel lanes . A travel lane is a portion of a road that is designated for use by a single line of vehicles and or a portion of a road that is currently being used by a single line of vehicles. In some instances the one or more travel lanes can be designated by markings on the road or in any other suitable manner. In some instances the one or more travel lanes may not be marked.

However it will be understood that arrangements described herein are not limited to roads having two travel lanes. Indeed arrangements described herein can be used in connection with roads having any number of travel lanes. Further it should be noted that the vehicles in adjacent travel lanes may travel in the same direction or the vehicles in adjacent travel lanes may travel in opposite directions. shows an example in which a vehicle e.g. truck is traveling in substantially the same direction as the present vehicle . shows an example in which a vehicle e.g. truck is traveling in substantially the opposite direction as the present vehicle .

The environment can include a splash condition . As used herein splash condition means the presence of any substance in a travel lane that when driven over by a vehicle or other object will cause at least a portion of the substance to scatter in a flying mass. Examples of a splash condition include rain a pool of water or other liquid substance snow slush sand dirt dust. The splash condition may be in a localized area e.g. a pool of water in one or more travel lanes or it may be a general condition of the area e.g. rain .

As noted above the vehicle can be configured to detect objects surrounding the vehicle in the environment . The surrounding object can be located in any direction with respect to the vehicle . The surrounding objects can include one or more other vehicles. The other vehicles may be autonomous vehicles or non autonomous vehicles or any combination of autonomous and non autonomous vehicles. For instance the surrounding objects can include one or more forward vehicles one or more rearward vehicles and or one or more adjacent vehicles. Forward vehicle means a vehicle that is located in front of and in the same lane or substantially the same lane as the present vehicle and traveling in substantially the same direction. Rearward vehicle means a vehicle that is located behind and in the same lane or substantially the same lane as the present vehicle and traveling in substantially the same direction. Adjacent vehicle means a vehicle that is located in an adjacent travel lane. An adjacent vehicle can be traveling in substantially the same direction as the present vehicle and or and adjacent vehicle can be traveling in substantially the opposite direction as the present vehicle. An adjacent vehicle can be located on the driver side of the vehicle or an adjacent vehicle can be located on the passenger side of the vehicle. In some instances one or more of the other vehicles may or may not be moving. For instance there may be one or more parked stopped and or disabled vehicles.

The surrounding objects can include non vehicle objects. For instance the non vehicle objects can include people animals signs and or other objects. The non vehicle objects can be stationary or they can be moving.

In some arrangements the surrounding objects can include all objects detected by the sensor system within the range of the sensors. In some arrangements the surrounding objects can be a subset of the objects detected by the sensor system such as those objects that are detected to be within a predetermined distance from the vehicle . For instance objects that are located beyond the predetermined distance can be ignored or otherwise filtered and thus effectively ignored.

Now that the various potential systems devices and or components of the vehicle and the environment in which the vehicle may operate have been described various methods of operating a vehicle when a splash condition is detected will now be described.

Referring to an example of a method of operating a vehicle when a splash condition is detected is shown. Various possible steps of method will now be described. The method illustrated in may be applicable to the embodiments described above in relation to but it is understood that the method can be carried out with other suitable systems and arrangements. Moreover the method may include other steps that are not shown here and in fact the method is not limited to including every step shown in . The steps that are illustrated here as part of the method are not limited to this particular chronological order either. Indeed some of the steps may be performed in a different order than what is shown and or at least some of the steps shown can occur simultaneously.

Various possible steps of method will now be described. At block the environment surrounding the vehicle can be detected. As an example the environment surrounding the vehicle can be detected for objects e.g. vehicles surrounding the vehicle splash condition s and other items. Such detection can be performed by one or more sensors of the sensor system . In some arrangements such detecting can be performed continuously while the vehicle is in operation. In some arrangements such detecting can at any suitable interval while the vehicle is in operation.

At decision block it can be determined whether a splash condition is detected. Such a determination can be made using for example one or more of the sensors of the sensor system the splash analysis module and or the processor . If a splash condition is not detected the method can end or return to the start. If a splash condition is detected the method can continue to decision block .

At decision block it can be determined whether a large object is detected near the present vehicle. Near the present vehicle includes objects located within a predetermined distance from the present vehicle. It can include objects located within the same travel lane as the present vehicle and or in an adjacent travel lane to the travel lane of the present vehicle. As noted above a large object can be any object that has one or more dimensions that is greater than a predetermined dimension e.g. having a detected length that is greater than the predetermined length described above or is presumed to be large based on one or more factors e.g. the number of wheels or tires . Such determinations can be made using for example one or more of the sensors of the sensor system the driving module the splash analysis module and or the processor . If a large object is not detected near the present vehicle the method can end or return to the start. If one or more large objects are detected near the present vehicle the method can continue to decision block .

At decision block it can be determined whether one or more of the detected large objects is passing the present vehicle. Such a determination can be made using for example one or more of the sensors of the sensor system the driving module the splash analysis module and or the processor . As an example the sensor system can detect the presence of one or more objects. The detected object can be identified as a vehicle in any suitable manner such as by template matching.

Whether the detected object is passing the present vehicle can be determined in various ways. For instance the sensor system the driving module the splash analysis module and or the processor can analyze visual data captured by the camera to detect the use of a turn signal by another vehicle e.g. a vehicle located behind the present vehicle and in the same travel lane . Alternatively or in addition one or more of the sensors of the sensor system the driving module the splash analysis module and or the processor can detect that an object is traveling in and or has moved into a travel lane that is adjacent to the current travel lane of the present vehicle . One or more of the sensors of the sensor system the driving module the splash analysis module and or the processor can detect or predict the current speed of the object in any suitable manner such as based on a plurality of captured images of the object or by using a speed sensor. If the speed of the detected object is determined to be greater than the current speed of the present vehicle and the detected object and if the present vehicle are traveling in substantially the same direction then it can be determined that the object is passing or trying to pass the present vehicle . For an object traveling in the opposite direction to the present vehicle it can be determined that the detected object is passing the present vehicle if the predicted trajectory of the object and the present vehicle would result in them passing each other.

If no detected large objects are determined to be passing the present vehicle the method can end or return to the start. If one or more large objects are determined to be passing the vehicle the method can continue to block .

At block a warning can be presented to one or more occupants of the vehicle including the driver and or one or more passengers. The warning can be presented in any suitable manner. For instance the warning can be presented on a display in the vehicle. As an example the warning can be a message presented on a display. As another example the warning can be presented by illuminating a light such as on an instrument panel of the vehicle. Alternatively or in addition the warning can be presented in an audible manner. As an example the warning can be presented over one or more in vehicle audio channels. In such case the audible warning can be a sound a plurality of sounds a word a phrase or a message. Alternatively or in addition the warning can be presented over any suitable in vehicle user interface. The warning can include any suitable content.

In one or more arrangements the warning can be sent to one or more recipients in any suitable form such as for example an electronic mail message an instant message IM a Short Messaging System SMS or a system message. The sent warning can be received on any of a variety of communication devices executing suitable communication software such as a computer system or other information processing system. In one or more arrangements the warning can be sent to a portable or mobile computing device e.g. a mobile telephone a smart phone a wireless enabled personal digital assistant a portable computer e.g. laptop tablet or the like.

In one or more arrangements the method can include detecting whether an occupant input is received in response to the presentation of the warning at decision block . In some instances one or more occupants of the vehicle e.g. the driver or a passenger can be prompted for an input. In other instances the method can wait to receive an occupant input. The occupant input can be received in any suitable manner. For instance a vehicle occupant can provide an input using one or more components of the input system . As an example a vehicle occupant can provide an input through a touch screen button switch or other in vehicle user interface element. In some arrangements a vehicle occupant can provide an input through engagement with one or more vehicle components e.g. gripping or turning the steering wheel activating a turn signal engaging a brake pedal engaging a gas pedal etc. . In one or more arrangements a vehicle occupant can provide an input by speaking.

If an occupant input is not received a default driving action can be implemented. For instance the default driving action can be remaining in the current operational mode autonomous mode or manual mode. In some arrangements a predetermined amount of time can be given to allow a vehicle occupant to provide an input. The predetermined amount of time can be any suitable amount of time. In some instances the predetermined amount of time can vary depending on one or more factors including for example one or more environmental conditions. If a user input is not received within the predetermined amount of time the default driving action can be implemented. In one or more arrangements the default driving action can be accompanied by one or more splash mitigating actions including for example automatic cleaning of one or more sensors that are or may be affected by splash a temporary increase of frequency of windshield wiper operation and or other splash mitigation action.

If an occupant input is received e.g. within the predetermined amount of time or otherwise the method can continue to block . At the block the vehicle can be caused to switch from an autonomous mode to a manual mode. In one or more arrangements the processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module can cause the vehicle to implement the switch between the autonomous mode and the manual mode. The processor and or the driving module can be operatively connected to one or more of the vehicle systems e.g. the switching system to implement the selected driving action. In one or more arrangements the processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module can be operable to control the one or more actuators which can control one or more of the vehicle systems or portions thereof to implement the switch.

Referring to an example of a method of operating a vehicle when a splash condition is detected is shown. Various possible steps of method will now be described. The method illustrated in may be applicable to the embodiments described above in relation to and later in relation to but it is understood that the method can be carried out with other suitable systems and arrangements. Moreover the method may include other steps that are not shown here and in fact the method is not limited to including every step shown in . The steps that are illustrated here as part of the method are not limited to this particular chronological order either. Indeed some of the steps may be performed in a different order than what is shown and or at least some of the steps shown can occur simultaneously.

Various possible steps of method will now be described. It should be noted that block decision block decision block and decision block in are similar to block decision block decision block and decision block in respectively. Accordingly the above description made with respect to these blocks and decision blocks in apply equally to the respective blocks and decision blocks in .

At decision block if one or more large objects are determined to be passing the vehicle the method can continue to decision block . At decision block it can be determined whether there is a sufficient distance between the present vehicle and one or more of the detected objects in the travel direction to safely adjust the distance between them before the large object passes the vehicle. The detected objects can include the large object or other objects e.g. a forward object e.g. a forward vehicle and or a rearward object e.g. a rearward vehicle . If the distance is determined to be insufficient the method can end or return to the start. If the distance is determined to be sufficient the method can continue to block . A sufficient distance means that the distance is large enough to safely accelerate or decelerate the present vehicle with respect to another vehicle so as to adjust the distance between them.

At block the distance between the vehicle and one or more of the detected objects e.g. the passing vehicle a forward vehicle and or a rear vehicle can be adjusted so as to avoid or minimize splash from the passing vehicle. If the distance is to be increased the present vehicle can be caused to accelerate. If the distance is to be decreased the present vehicle can be caused to decelerate. The processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module can be operatively connected to one or more of the vehicle systems implement the appropriate action. In one or more arrangements the processor the driving module and or the splash analysis module can be operable to control the one or more actuators which can control one or more of the vehicle systems or portions thereof to implement the switch.

Referring to an example of a method of operating a vehicle when a splash condition is detected is shown. Various possible steps of method will now be described. The method illustrated in may be applicable to the embodiments described above in relation to but it is understood that the method can be carried out with other suitable systems and arrangements. Moreover the method may include other steps that are not shown here and in fact the method is not limited to including every step shown in . The steps that are illustrated here as part of the method are not limited to this particular chronological order either. Indeed some of the steps may be performed in a different order than what is shown and or at least some of the steps shown can occur simultaneously.

Various possible steps of method will now be described. At block the environment in an adjacent travel lane to the current travel lane of the vehicle can be detected. As an example the adjacent travel lane can be detected for objects e.g. vehicles surrounding the vehicle splash condition s and other items. Such detection can be performed by one or more sensors of the sensor system . In some arrangements such detecting can be performed continuously while the vehicle is in operation. In some arrangements such detecting can at any suitable interval while the vehicle is in operation.

At decision block it can be determined whether a pool of water or other splash condition is detected in an adjacent travel lane. Such a determination can be made using for example one or more of the sensors of the sensor system the splash analysis module and or the processor . If a pool of water or other splash condition is not detected in the adjacent travel lane the method can end or return to the start. If a pool of water or other splash condition is detected the method can continue to decision block .

At decision block it can be determined whether a large object is detected in the adjacent travel lane to the present vehicle. For instance in one or more arrangements it can be determined whether a large object is detected in the same adjacent travel lane as the splash condition. Such a determination can be made using for example one or more of the sensors of the sensor system the driving module the splash analysis module and or the processor . If a large object is not detected in an adjacent travel lane the method can end or return to the start. If one or more large objects are detected in an adjacent travel lane the method can continue to decision block .

At decision block it can be determined whether the detected large object passing through the pool of water or other splash condition will cause the present vehicle to be splashed. Such a determination can be made using for example one or more of the sensors of the sensor system the driving module the splash analysis module and or the processor . If it is determined that no splash will occur or that splash of the present vehicle is unlikely the method can end or return to the start. If it is determined that splash will occur or that splash of the present vehicle is likely the method can continue to block .

At block a warning can be presented to one or more occupants of the vehicle including the driver and or one or more passengers. It should be noted that block is similar to block in . Accordingly the above description of block applies equally to block .

It will be appreciated that arrangements described herein can provide numerous benefits including one or more of the benefits mentioned herein and or other benefits. For example arrangements described herein can minimize or eliminate splash on the vehicle caused by a passing vehicle driving through a splash condition. Arrangements described herein can facilitate the proper functioning of the sensor system or one or more sensors thereof. Some sensors may not correctly detect one or more things regarding the surrounding environment after the vehicle is covered with splash caused by a passing vehicle. Further some passengers may have a concern about poor visibility or even no visibility after the vehicle is covered with splash caused by another vehicle. Such concern may be worrisome when the vehicle is operating in an autonomous mode. Further arrangements described herein can facilitate the transition between an autonomous mode and a manual mode in advance of the occurrence of potentially hazardous operational conditions. Arrangements described herein can facilitate safe driving and occupant safety.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments. In this regard each block in the flowcharts or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

The systems components and or processes described above can be realized in hardware or a combination of hardware and software and can be realized in a centralized fashion in one processing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected processing systems. Any kind of processing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software can be a processing system with computer usable program code that when being loaded and executed controls the processing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. The systems components and or processes also can be embedded in a computer readable storage such as a computer program product or other data programs storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform methods and processes described herein. These elements also can be embedded in an application product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a processing system is able to carry out these methods.

Furthermore arrangements described herein may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable media having computer readable program code embodied e.g. stored thereon. Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium means a non transitory storage medium. Examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a solid state drive SSD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disc DVD an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present arrangements may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The terms a and an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language . The phrase at least one of . . . and . . . as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. As an example the phrase at least one of A B and C means A B C or any combination thereof e.g. AB AC BC ABC .

Aspects herein can be embodied in other forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof. Accordingly reference should be made to the following claims rather than to the foregoing specification as indicating the scope of the invention.

