---

title: Gun-launched anchor projectile for climbing
abstract: A gun-launched, penetrating anchor projectile includes a dense, metallic, elongated penetrator having a central bore extending forward from its aft end. An expandable anchor in the form of a hollow cylinder is disposed aft of the penetrator. A spacer and hammer in the form of hollow cylinders are disposed aft of the anchor. A guide tube is disposed radially inward of the anchor, the spacer and the hammer. A semi-rigid cable has one end fixed in the central bore of the penetrator and extends aft through hollow interiors of the expandable anchor, the spacer, and the hammer. The other end of the cable forms a loop on which a pulley is mounted. A discarding sabot and fin assembly are disposed around the projectile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09074856&OS=09074856&RS=09074856
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09074856
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140417
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 813 230 filed on Apr. 18 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The invention relates in general to climbing anchors and in particular to gun launched projectiles that create a climbing anchor point in a hard material.

A human cannot easily ascend very steep or vertical obstacles such as man made walls or natural obstacles. Climbers may use ropes that are anchored in the obstacle to assist in climbing the obstacle. In some cases such as military operations search and rescue etc. several people must ascend an obstacle quickly. Each climber may be carrying gear weighing tens of pounds. A need exists for a lightweight inexpensive secure anchor for steep obstacles that can be embedded in the obstacle quickly and from a distance.

One aspect of the invention is a gun launched penetrating anchor projectile having a central longitudinal axis. The projectile includes an elongated penetrator made of a dense metallic material and centered on the central longitudinal axis. The elongated penetrator has an aft end that tapers in an aft direction and a central bore extending forward from the aft end. An expandable anchor in the form of a hollow cylinder is disposed aft of the elongated penetrator and centered on the central longitudinal axis.

A spacer made from a brittle material in the form of a hollow cylinder is disposed aft of the expandable anchor and centered on the central longitudinal axis. A hammer made from a dense metallic material in the form of a hollow cylinder is disposed aft of the spacer and centered on the central longitudinal axis. A guide tube in the form of a tube is centered on the central longitudinal axis and disposed radially inward of the expandable anchor the spacer and the hammer. An outer sheath encloses the elongated penetrator the expandable anchor the spacer and the hammer.

A semi rigid cable is fixed at one end in the central bore of the elongated penetrator and extends in the aft direction through hollow interiors of the expandable anchor the spacer and the hammer. The other end of the semi rigid cable forms a loop that extends through the through bore of a pulley. A discarding sabot is disposed around the projectile. A fin assembly is disposed around the projectile aft of the discarding sabot and forward of the pulley.

The projectile may include a lead line extending around the pulley through the loop of the semi rigid cable. Masses may be fixed to respective free ends of the lead line.

The expandable anchor may include at least two longitudinal slits formed therein. The slits may begin at a forward end of the anchor extend aft and be circumferentially equally spaced apart from each other.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A penetrating anchor projectile may be used to aid one or more persons in ascending an obstacle such as a man made wall or natural formation. The anchor projectile may be gun launched and may include stabilization fins and a discarding sabot. A climbing rope may be connected to the aft or rear end of the anchor projectile. The forward end of the anchor projectile includes a dense metallic penetrator made of for example a heavy tungsten alloy. Aft of the penetrator is an expandable anchor portion to help lodge the penetrator in the obstacle. Aft of the penetrator and the expandable anchor is a hammer portion.

Upon impact of the penetrating anchor projectile with the obstacle the hammer portion rams the aft end of the expandable anchor portion and thereby forces the forward end of the expandable anchor portion against the aft end of the penetrator. The anchor portion will then expand and help lock the penetrator in place inside the obstacle. The hammer portion may be made of for example tungsten. A spacer is disposed between the hammer portion and the expandable anchor portion to provide a time delay for the ramming of the anchor portion by the hammer portion. The time delay provides time for the penetrator to enter the obstacle surface before the hammer portion impacts the anchor portion. The spacer may be made of a brittle material for example acrylic.

The penetrating anchor projectile may be gun launched. The type and caliber of the gun used to launch the anchor projectile may vary. In one embodiment the gun may be a 40 mm grenade launcher such as the U.S. Army M203 or M320 grenade launchers. The anchor projectile is seated in a cartridge case containing propellant. The cartridge case with the anchor projectile seated therein is loaded in the gun. The propellant in the cartridge case burns and propels the anchor projectile out of the cartridge case and out of the gun. The manner of seating the anchor projectile in the cartridge case can be analogous to for example the manner of seating an armor piercing fin stabilized discarding sabot projectile APFSDS in its cartridge case. As an alternative to a burning propellant the anchor projectile may be launched from a compressed gas gun. The anchor projectile may be fired directly into an obstacle to establish an anchor point at any desired location in the obstacle.

Penetrating anchor projectile has a central longitudinal axis E. Projectile includes an elongated generally cylindrical penetrator made of a hard dense metallic material and centered on the central longitudinal axis E. Elongated penetrator has an aft end that tapers in the aft direction and a central bore that extends forward from the aft end . The forward end of penetrator may taper in the forward direction. Penetrator is made of a material having a density of at least 10 grams cubic centimeter. Penetrator may be made of for example tungsten or a tungsten alloy. By way of example only penetrator may be about two to three inches long and about 0.25 inches to about 1 inch in diameter.

Aft of penetrator is an expandable anchor in the form of a hollow cylinder. Anchor is centered on the central longitudinal axis E and abuts the aft end of penetrator . Anchor may be made of a relatively easily deformable metal for example a low grade carbon steel. As best seen in expandable anchor includes at least two longitudinal slits formed therein. Slits begin at a forward end of the anchor and extend aft. Slits may be circumferentially equally spaced apart from each other.

A spacer is disposed aft of the expandable anchor and centered on axis E. Spacer may be made from a brittle material in the form of a hollow cylinder. An exemplary material for spacer is acrylic. Aft of spacer is a hammer centered on axis E. Hammer is made of a dense metallic material in the form of a hollow cylinder. Hammer is made of a material having a density of at least 10 grams cubic centimeter. An exemplary material for hammer is tungsten.

A guide tube in the form of a tube is disposed radially inward of anchor spacer and hammer . Guide tube may be made of for example aluminum. Hammer spacer and expandable anchor are translatable on the outer radial surface of guide tube . However spacer will disintegrate when rammed by hammer rather than translate any appreciable distance. An outer sheath encloses the elongated penetrator the expandable anchor the spacer and the hammer . Sheath may be made of for example copper.

A semi rigid cable is fixed at one end in the central bore of the elongated penetrator . Cable may be fixed in bore using for example a high strength metal bonder. Cable is centered on axis E and extends in the aft direction through hollow interiors of the expandable anchor the spacer the hammer and the guide tube . The other end of cable forms a loop using for example a cable crimp or clamp . Loop passes through a through bore in a pulley .

A discarding sabot is disposed around a portion of projectile . The sabot may be made of for example three longitudinally separate pieces. Sabot may be made of for example aluminum. Sabot may be fixed to outer sheath in a known manner such that sabot separates from sheath after projectile exits the muzzle of the launching tube or gun. The outer diameter of sabot may be varied to accommodate guns of different calibers. A stabilizing tin assembly is disposed aft of the discarding sabot and forward of the pulley . The tin assembly may be made of for example aluminum.

As seen in a lead line is fixed at its approximate mid point to pulley . The total length of lead line can vary and should be about twice the maximum anticipated vertical ascent distance distance C in . Lead line has a relatively small diameter for example in a range of about 0.2 to about 1.5 mm. Lead line may be made of materials used for for example fishing line. Lead line may be fixed at its mid point to pulley using for example an adhesive material. Each free end of lead line has a small mass attached thereto.

As noted above anchor projectile is seated in a cartridge case containing propellant. Lead line with masses attached is coiled in the cartridge case proximate pulley with the mid point of line fixed to pulley . The cartridge case with anchor projectile seated therein is loaded in a launching gun. If burning propellant is used then the propellant in the cartridge case burns and propels the anchor projectile out of the cartridge case and out of the gun. The sabot discards after anchor projectile exits the gun barrel. Projectile contacts and penetrates an obstruction. As hammer decelerates hammer shatters spacer and rams the aft end of anchor . Anchor in turn translates into the aft end of elongated penetrator . Anchor deforms along longitudinal slits thereby forming petals or flanges that extend radially outward from central axis E. The expanded anchor helps secure penetrator in the obstacle.

With penetrator securely lodged in the obstacle the masses on lead line have dropped down by gravity to ground level. A climber then attaches a climbing rope to one end of lead line . The climber pulls the other end of lead line to pull the climbing rope up and through pulley and then down to the climber. Thus the climber now has a climbing robe threaded through pulley . The climber may then ascend the obstacle with the aid of the climbing rope.

The strength of the adhesive used to fix lead line to pulley is sufficient to survive the flight cycle of projectile but will fail when the climber on the ground applies pulling force to one end of line to pull the climbing rope attached to line up and through pulley . The failure of the adhesive allows lead line to detach from pulley when the climbing rope is pulled up and through pulley .

When a climber applies the load of his her body to the climbing rope and the pulley the semi rigid cable will deform and bend downwardly toward the surface of the obstacle. Thus for the purpose of this patent application semi rigid means that the cable is rigid enough to maintain the pulley in a centered position along axis E during the flight cycle of the projectile and flexible enough to bend downward when loaded by the weight of an adult human being. The ability of the cable to bend downward decreases the moment applied to the penetrator embedded in the obstacle compared to a cable that does not bend downward under the weight of a climber.

Various prototypes of the invention were tested in varying environments. Using a penetrator made of tungsten inch diameter and 2.5 inches long it was determined that a muzzle velocity of 1200 feet per second is needed to penetrate six inches into reinforced concrete. Prototypes of projectile using a steel penetrator launched from a compressed air gun showed that the lead line properly deployed and remained adhered to the pulley after impact. Other tests using a steel penetrator and an air gun showed that the sabot discarded properly and the fin assembly provided stability during projectile flight.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

