---

title: Context-based advertising
abstract: A method and a system for context-based real-time advertising are provided. In example embodiments, a document content that is displayed to a user may be analyzed and keywords may be identified. Selected listings from a publication system may be received; the selected listings may be selected using the keywords. The system may detect user events associated with the keywords and, in response to the detection of the user events, display information related to the listings while maintaining the displaying of the document content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09519917&OS=09519917&RS=09519917
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09519917
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141201
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 945 380 filed Nov. 27 2007 the benefit of priority of which is claimed hereby and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Example embodiments relate generally to the technical field of data management and in one specific example to context based real time advertising.

Advertising is one of the most important business activities of almost all business entities such as corporations companies institutions and the like. The widespread use of the Internet has provided an efficient and low cost platform for advertising. Advertisers may readily select the target consumers for their products or services based on geographic or demographic distributions or other criteria. Many Website owners may benefit from monetizing their Websites by showing advertisements that result in receiving incentives from the advertisers.

Example methods and systems for context based real time advertising have been described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

For the purpose of present application the term context linking shall be taken to include but not be limited to linking some selected keywords or features from the content of an online document such as a Web page to a specific advertisement e.g. linking a keyword to a listing in a commerce system .

Some embodiments described herein may include a computerized method for analyzing a document content that is displayed to a user and identifying keywords. Selected listings from a publication system may be received the selected listings may be selected using the keywords. According to the method user events associated with the keywords may be detected and in response to the detection of the user events information related to the listings may be displayed while maintaining the displaying of the document content.

Whenever a user event e.g. mouse over or mouse click occurs with respect any of the keywords the event may be automatically detected. The detection of the user event may cause the system to display information related to the listing. In the example embodiment shown in the user event is symbolically shown by a pointer tagging one of the keywords e.g. the word environment . Once the user event is automatically detected by the context based real time advertising system the system may display a tooltip window . The tooltip window may display information related to a listing selected from a publication system using the keyword environment. The example listing displayed in tooltip window is a Rain Forest Waterfall poster for which the related information such as price auction end time and listing location are displayed.

The displaying of the information e.g. by the tooltip window as shown in may occur while the displaying of the content of the document is maintained in an alternative example embodiment the tooltip window may be shown on selected areas of the document or in a dedicated section of a user interface within which the document is displayed.

In an example embodiment the owner of the document may be an affiliate of the publication system. The owner may want to monetize his document and receive a commission whenever the user registers as a customer or initiates a certain activity e.g. places a bid within the publication system after clicking on a contextual keyword . The owner of the document may also be the one who decides about the content of the tooltip window e.g. the type of listing related information to be displayed by the tooltip window .

According to an example embodiment the PHP may make an Application Programming Interface API call to the server of the publication system to initiate the analysis of the document . The analyzing of the document may include parsing the document removing Hyper Text Markup Language HTML tags identifying the language of the text content of the document and identifying a selected group of words. Once the selected words are identified the listing categories that are most related to those selected group of words are selected and listing category keywords are identified. The listing category keywords may be used as described in to identify the keywords within the content of the document . Once identified the keywords may be highlighted by execution of the IS . The highlighting may include underlining or changing the color of the characters of the keywords .

In an example embodiments the type of listing information relating to a key feature of the document e.g. key feature displayed in a tooltip window e.g. tooltip window may be selected by the owner of the document . The owner of the document may receive executable codes from the publication system to be embedded in the document . Upon execution the embedded codes may cause an application running on a server of the publication system to identify key features of the images of the document . The embedded codes upon execution may also cause the server to link the key features of the images of the document to publication data from the publication system e.g. listings or other publication from a commerce system related to the key features. The linking of a key feature may include displaying a related listing to the key feature in response to an user event associated with that key feature.

In example embodiments the content analyzer may analyze the content of the document to identify contextual keywords. The content analyzer may initiate the analysis of the document in response to a call to the API server from the client machine . The listing selector may select a listing from a publication system using the keywords. The API server may also facilitate receiving the selected listing from the publication system. The user interface may provide the client machine with user interfaces that may display information related to the listing in response to detection by the user event detector of a user event e.g. a mouse over a mouse click or the like associated with the keywords.

According to example embodiments the content analyzer may detect the language of the content of the document . The detection of the language may be performed by a series of operations including parsing the content removing HTML tags and counting the occurrence frequency of all words within the content. The result of such counting may be a list of words followed by a number indicating a frequency associated with each word. By comparing a top group of most frequently occurring words e.g. a top 20 words of the document with top groups of words associated with various languages a good match may be found with a specific language. Other methods of identifying the language of the content may also be used. The content analyzer may then remove determined words such as is are it that this etc. from the content and generate filtered content. The content analyzer may then identify the top n word from the filtered content. The top n words may include a predefine number n e.g. 20 of the most frequently used words in the filtered content. The top n words may be stored in a memory .

In example embodiments the listing selector may use the top n words to identify a top m publication categories in the publication system. The top m publication categories may include a predefined number m e.g. 20 of the categories showing the highest probability of containing or being otherwise associated with the top n words. The listing selector may then retrieve a list of keywords associated with the top m listing categories from the memory . The content analyzer may then compare the words in the filtered content with the retrieved list of keywords and identify any word from the filtered content that also exists in the list of keywords as the contextual keywords.

The contextual keywords may be highlighted in the document and the content analyzer may store the contextual keywords and the information related to listings associated with the contextual keywords in the memory .

According to example embodiments in a next operation the listing selector may find the keywords listed by the publication system for the top m categories. In the example shown the selected e.g. most frequent keywords for categories notebook and software are shown in lists and respectively. In a next operation the content analyzer may compare the words of the list with the keywords shown in lists and to identify the words that are also present in the keywords. These words are defined to constitute context words of the document. In this particular example the words Xp and Win may be selected as the contextual keywords.

The user event detector at operation may automatically detect a user event e.g. mouse click mouse over or the like associated with a contextual keyword. Once such a user event is detected at operation the user interface may display information related to a listing associated with the contextual keyword. The displaying of the information may include showing a tooltip window. The showing of the tooltip window may occur white maintaining the display of the document . In an example embodiment the tooltip window may be displayed in a dedicated section of a user interface within which the document is displayed.

However if the document is not known at operation the document may be parsed by the content analyzer . At operation the content analyzer may use the parsed content of the document to detect the language of the document. The method may then continue with operation where the text of the document is filtered to remove determined words. At operation the filtered document may be analyzed by the content analyzer as discussed above in description of . At operation the content analyzer may finally identify the contextual keywords of the document and at operation the contextual keywords may be highlighted using the JS . At operation once a user event is detected the user interface may at operation display a tooltip pop up window showing the information related to publication data e.g. a listing or other publication associated with the contextual keyword that received the user event.

Turning to the network based real time advertising system an Application Program Interface API server and a Web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and Web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more marketplace applications and context applications . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases .

The marketplace applications provide a number of marketplace functions and services to users who access the network based real time advertising system . The context applications facilitate real time context based advertisement activities over the network .

Further while the network based publication system shown in employs a client server architecture the present application is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system. The various marketplace and context applications and may also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

It should be appreciated that the Web client may access the various marketplace and context applications and via the Web interface supported by the Web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the marketplace and context applications and via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example affiliate registration applications to provide interested users e.g. affiliates of the publication system with affiliate program registration forms to sign up for a publication system s affiliate program.

The programmatic client may also include context review applications to enable users to submit online documents such as Web pages for context review and keyword identification process and communication applications to perform batch mode communications between the programmatic client and the network based real time advertising system .

The various auction applications may also provide a number of features in support of such auction format listings such as a reserve price feature whereby a seller may specify a reserve price in connection with a listing and a proxy bidding feature whereby a bidder may invoke automated proxy bidding. A number of fixed price applications support fixed price listing formats e.g. the traditional classified advertisement type listing or a catalogue listing and buyout type listings. Specifically buyout type listings e.g. including the Buy It Now BIN technology developed by eBay of San Jose Calif. may be offered in conjunction with an auction format listing and allow a buyer to purchase goods or services which are also being offered for sale via an auction for a fixed price that is typically higher than the starting price of the auction.

Reputation applications allow parties that transact using the network based marketplace to establish build and maintain reputations which may be made available and published to potential trading partners. Consider that where for example the network based publication system supports person to person trading users may have no history or other reference information whereby the trustworthiness and credibility of potential trading partners may be assessed. The reputation applications allow a user for example through feedback provided by other transaction partners to establish a reputation within the network based publication system over time. Other potential trading partners may then reference such a reputation for the purposes of assessing credibility and trustworthiness.

Listing creation applications allow sellers conveniently to author listings pertaining to goods or services that they wish to transact via the marketplace. Dispute resolution applications provide mechanisms whereby disputes arising between transacting parties may be resolved. For example the dispute resolution applications may provide guided procedures whereby the parties are guided through a number of steps in an attempt to settle a dispute. In the event that the dispute cannot be settled via the guided procedures the dispute may be escalated to a third party mediator or arbitrator.

A number of fraud prevention applications implement various fraud detection and prevention mechanisms to reduce the occurrence of fraud within the marketplace. Messaging applications are responsible for the generation and delivery of messages to users of the network based publication system such messages for example advising users regarding the status of listings at the network based publication system e.g. providing outbid notices to bidders during an auction process or to provide promotional and merchandising information to users .

The network based real time advertising system itself or one or more parties that may not transact via the network based publication system may operate affiliate programs that are supported by one or more affiliate applications . For example an affiliate may monetize his her Web pages or online documents by context linking the Web pages or online documents to receive points for each user event e.g. click or mouse over associated with a highlighted keyword feature of the Web pages or the online document.

A number of context application may facilitate for interested parties such as affiliates of the network based publication system to context link their Web pages or online documents to listings of the network based publication system . User interface applications may support user interactions with the network based publication system .

The example computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory all of which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. liquid crystal displays LCD or cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also may include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit may include a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media.

Thus a computerized method and system for context based real time advertising have been described. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 h requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it may be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

