---

title: System and method for accessing modular applications
abstract: A method and system for providing modular application for use within a cloud-based file includes storing on a cloud computing service a link to a modular application configured to be used with a cloud-based file, receiving a request to access the link to the modular application, determining whether the request source is associated with the cloud computing service, and providing an option to access the requested modular application. The option can be for a trial of the modular application or to create a cloud-based file using the modular application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09397993&OS=09397993&RS=09397993
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09397993
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140114
---
Cloud computing services allow users to create edit share and collaborate on files that are stored on the cloud computing service. Users connect to the cloud computing service over a remote network such as the Internet. Files that may be stored on the cloud computing service include word processing documents spreadsheets presentations images audio files video files and many other types of documents and files. The cloud computing service also provides file editing applications for displaying and editing certain files. These applications are sent from the cloud computing service to a client computer and displayed on a web browser executing on the client computer. For example a cloud computing service may send to a client computer a document editing application for displaying and editing word processing documents stored on the cloud computing service. For collaborative documents the cloud computing service sends the application to each collaborator so that they can view and edit the document at the same time.

The cloud computing service may allow users to install various add on applications that increase the functionality of the file editing applications. These add on applications or modular applications are designed to work in conjunction with the file editing applications. Some examples of modular applications can allow a user to create a word cloud of words in a document create a bibliography of sources used in the document and create special types of charts in a spreadsheet document that cannot normally be created with the document editing application. Discovering such modular applications however can be complicated as they may be provided in several contexts or made available from various sources. In addition if a user is not already using a cloud computing service to create files the user may have no idea that modular applications are available for use with a cloud computing service or how to use any modular applications.

The systems and methods described herein provide ways to easily introduce a user to a modular application without having previously used the modular application or a cloud computing service. A method for providing modular applications for use within a cloud based file may include storing on a cloud computing service a link to a modular application configured to be used with a collaborative document receiving a request to access the link to the modular application determining whether the request source is associated with the cloud computing service and providing an option to access the requested modular application. The options can include to create a cloud based file using the modular application or to start a trial of the requested modular application. An installation of an application for creating the cloud based file may be activated. If the request source is determined to be associated with the cloud computing service a user authentication procedure for the cloud computing service may be provided. If the request source is determined to not be associated with the cloud computing service a user introduction to the cloud computing service may be provided. The links may be provided to a searchable database or an application store.

To provide an overall understanding of the systems and methods described herein certain illustrative embodiments will now be described. However it will be understood that the systems and methods described herein may be adapted and modified as is appropriate for the application being addressed and that the systems and methods described herein may be employed in other suitable applications and that such other additions and modifications will not depart from the scope thereof. In particular a server service or system as used in this description may be a single computing device or multiple computing devices working collectively and in which the storage of data and the execution of functions are spread out among the various computing devices.

Aspects of the systems and methods described herein relate to facilitating access to and installation of modular applications that may be used with a cloud computing service and a cloud based file such as a collaborative document on the cloud computing service. The systems and methods described herein may also be applied to other types of applications and files provided using the cloud computing service. A cloud computing service stores a number of collaborative files each of which may be viewed and edited by multiple collaborators at the same time. The cloud computing service provides a file editing applications to each collaborator the file editing application executing as a stand alone application or executing on a web browser on each collaborator s client computer. The cloud computing service also stores a number of modular applications that add additional functionality to the file editing application. The cloud computing service may also provide links to third party modular applications that may be used with file editing applications and other cloud computing service applications.

A collaborator may browse and search for modular applications for example from an application store using an internet search engine or other database. When the user finds the modular application the user may select the modular application to access it and interact with it. Interactions with the modular application can be a trial activating an installation or the user can be provided an option to create a new file using the modular application and a file editing application using the cloud computing service.

First a network system in which a number of client computers may connect to a server is described. shows a network system that includes cloud computing service and a number of client computers through . Cloud computing service may include one or more computing devices that collectively provide online content and services for a number of client computers. Cloud computing service stores a number of files that are accessible by client computers . The files may include word processing documents spreadsheets presentations images audio files video files or any other files of various open or proprietary file types. Users may create edit copy share and delete files stored on the cloud computing service. Cloud computing service also stores a number of modular applications or links to modular applications. Cloud computing service may also be connected to one or more third party services not shown that provide a modular application. Client computers may include desktop computers laptop computers tablets smart phones mobile electronic devices or any other device that may connect to cloud computing service . System may include many additional client computers not pictured in . The network connection between the client computers and cloud computing service in network system may be facilitated through a local area network wide area network Ethernet fiber optic network or any other wired or wireless connection.

The components of a client computer and a cloud computing service in communication with each other are now described in more detail. System in includes a cloud computing service in communication with a client computer . Cloud computing service includes a central processing unit CPU read only memory ROM random access memory RAM communications unit data store application store and bus . Server may have additional components that are not illustrated in . Bus allows the various components of server to communicate with each other. Communications unit allows server to communicate with other devices such as client computer and other client computers. Data store is used to store content accessible by a user on client computer such as documents and files stored by users on cloud computing service . Application store stores modular applications that are designed for use within the documents or files that are stored in data store . For example application store may store modular applications that are used in conjunction with document editing applications provided by cloud computing service that allows users to edit documents on client computer . The modular applications are executed on cloud computing service rather than installed and executed on client computer .

Client computer includes a CPU ROM RAM input output interface and bus . Client computer may have additional components that are not illustrated in . Bus allows the various components of client computer to communicate with each other. Input output interface allows client computer to communicate with other devices such as cloud computing service . Input output interface also includes devices for taking in user inputs and displaying outputs to a user such as a keyboard mouse and display screen. CPU executes various programs and applications stored in memory on client computer such as a web browser. Web browsers are used among other things to display content and services provided by cloud computing service . Web browsers receive web page documents encoded in HTML CSS Javascript or other web compatible languages and interpret the language to properly display the web page.

Data store for storing content on cloud computing service application store a web browser executing on client computer and other data structures and software programs in system may be implemented using non transitory computer readable media. Examples of suitable non transitory computer readable media include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and read only once writable or rewriteable optical disks such as e.g. CDROM CDR CD R CDRW CD RW DVDROM DVDR DVD R DVDRW and DVD RW .

A cloud computing service stores files accessible to a number of users. Each user can view edit and share the files with other users. A collaborative file is a document stored on a cloud computing service that is accessible to multiple users and may be edited by one or more users at the same time. A cloud computing service provides a platform for collaborators to work on collaborative documents. The cloud computing service provides file editing applications for viewing and editing files stored on the cloud computing service. The file editing applications are sent from the cloud computing service to a client computer and run on a web browser or as a stand alone application. The file editing applications include a user interface for displaying and editing the file. For example if a user opens a word processing document stored on the cloud computing service the cloud computing service sends a word processing document application to the web browser of the client computer. The word processing document application displays a user interface on the web browser for the user to view and edit the word processing document. The word processing document application may be implemented in HTML Javascript or any other browser compatible language. Alternatively the file editing application may be a stand alone application that executes on the client computer for example an app for a mobile device.

The cloud computing service may also store modular applications that work in conjunction with file editing applications and increase their functionality. These modular applications are provided by the cloud computing service or can be provided by a third party service and linked to by the cloud computing service and any user may install the modular applications and use them with and in files stored on the cloud computing service. Examples of modular applications for use in conjunction with cloud based file editing applications include word cloud applications mail merging applications bibliography applications chart and graph applications plagiarism detection applications document signature applications facsimile applications image editors geography and mapping applications and applications that retrieve information from the Internet to display within a file. When activated within a file editing application some modular applications may alter the user interface of the file editing application to provide added functionality while other modular applications may execute certain computations or routines to display a result while yet others may operate in the background and do not produce a visual change in the display of the file or file editing application. The modular applications may be developed by the cloud computing service or by third party developers. The cloud computing service may provide an online web page or in product gallery where users can browse search and install the modular applications. The user interface of the file editing applications also provides menu options to browse search and install modular applications. The modular applications may be provided for free or some of them may be available for a fee.

Modular applications may be installed on a client computer and may be used on that particular device. Modular applications may also be installed on a user basis and may be available on multiple devices. For example a modular application provided by a cloud computing service may be available to the user of the cloud computing service. If a user wishes to find a modular application that may for example provide a needed feature the user may search one or more sources. If the user however does not know about a cloud computing service the user may not know to search for modular applications that are provided in connection with the cloud computing service. This may limit the user s ability to find and use modular applications.

The present systems and methods provide a more convenient way for users to use modular applications that are available in from a cloud computing service that the user has not previously used. Thus a user with no history of using a cloud computing service can discover modular applications interact with the modular application and create files using the modular application and the cloud computing service.

The modular applications may be developed by the cloud computing service or by third party developers and may be written in Javascript or another browser compatible language. For example a modular application may be written as a script in Javascript that communicates with the application programming interface API of the document editing application and provides additional functionality to the application. The modular application may add additional user interface elements to the display such as menu options tabs or sidebars.

A user may search for a modular application using an internet search engine or application store. The search results may include links to relevant modular applications which may be selected to access the respective modular application. The cloud computing service may initiate and execute the modular application when it receives a request to access the modular application. If the cloud computing service detects that the request comes from a user of the cloud computing service the cloud computing service may lead the user to a cloud system interface that allows the user to select files or create files for use with the selected modular application. The cloud computing service may also detect that the source of the request is not associated with the cloud computing service and in that case may provide a page with information about the modular application and options for interacting with the modular application for example to try the modular application install the application or to create a cloud based file using the modular application. In creating the cloud based file the cloud computing service would provide the user with the opportunity to sign up for the cloud computing service and create a user profile.

When a user selects a modular application search result link shown in the user may be provided with the options shown with the search result link or a screen requesting consent from the user to allow the modular application permission to certain user data. Obtaining such information allows the cloud computing service to detect whether the user is already associated with the cloud computing service. If the user refuses the user data access request the cloud computing service may treat the user as a non subscriber and provide options to the user as if the user has never used the cloud computing service. Any cloud computing service interface could also include a link to log in to the service. If the user allows the cloud computing service to access user data and the cloud computing service determines that the user is not associated with the cloud computing service the cloud computing service will provide the user with options to interact with the modular application as well as the cloud computing service.

Methods are now discussed for providing users the ability to access and use modular applications within cloud based files stored on a cloud computing service. illustrates a method for providing modular applications to a user. Method includes storing links to modular application on a cloud computing service providing links to modular applications to external databases and providing access to modular applications upon request. Method may be performed on one or more servers that collectively provide a cloud computing service such as cloud computing service in or cloud computing service in .

Method begins when a cloud computing service stores links to modular applications shown at . The links to modular applications may include application information as well as URLs that may be stored in a data store on the cloud computing service. The links may lead to cloud based storage for the modular application or to an external service that provides the modular application. The link may also lead to a start page independent web page or to a cloud based page for the modular application. The modular applications are designed to be usable within cloud based files including collaborative documents to add more functionality to a collaborative document editing application. Examples of modular applications for use within the collaborative document include word cloud applications mail merging applications bibliography applications chart and graph applications plagiarism detection applications document signature applications facsimile applications and applications that retrieve information from the Internet to display within the document. The modular applications may be written in Javascript and use the API of the file editing application to add functionality and additional user interface elements. The modular applications may be developed by the cloud computing service or by third party developers. The modular applications are available for any user to use within a cloud file and may be free or available for a fee. The links may be made available to third party and external databases as shown at . For example the links may be available on the internet for including in general search engine results. The links and modular applications may also be included in an application store or online store database.

The cloud computing service will provide access to the modular applications using the links upon request as shown at . A user may search for a modular application in an application store and obtain one or more results. When the user selects the result the user will be linked to the modular application by access to the link provided by the cloud computing service. In general the user will be sent to a modular application start page which will include options for interacting with the modular application.

When the user selects the modular application link the cloud computing service will determine how to present the modular application based on the requesting source. Methods are now discussed for providing users the ability to access and use modular applications within cloud based files. illustrates a method for providing modular applications for use with a cloud computing service for a user that is not associated with the cloud computing service. Method includes receiving a request to access a modular application on a cloud computing service detecting that the request is from a user that is not associated with the cloud computing service providing access to the requested modular application and providing an option to create a file on the cloud computing service using the requested modular application. Method may be performed on one or more servers that collectively provide a cloud computing service such as cloud computing service in or cloud computing service in .

Method begins when a cloud computing service receives a request to access a modular application on a cloud computing service shown at . The request may be received from a user by selecting a link for the modular application obtained in a search interface or an application store which causes the user to link to a start page that is stored by the cloud computing service. The user may provide certain identifying information to the cloud computing service that the cloud computing service may use to determine whether the user is associated with the cloud computing service by for example comparing the user information with a subscriber database of the cloud computing service. As shown at the cloud computing service may detect that the user is not associated with the cloud computing service. This detection may be because a subscribing user refuses to share any identifying information at that time or that the user s identifying information does not match any known users of the cloud computing system. The cloud computing service may provide access to the user to the requested modular application as shown at by linking the user to a start page or other application page. Options may be provided to the user to create a cloud based file using the requested modular application as shown at . The cloud computing service may provide an option on the modular application start page or application interface that allows the user to create a new cloud file using the modular application. Existing users of the cloud computing service may also be provided with options to use the modular application with new or existing user files. Thus method provides a way for users to interact with a new modular application without prior use of a cloud based service.

It will be apparent that aspects of the systems and methods described herein may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the drawings. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement aspects consistent with the principles of the systems and method described herein is not limiting. Thus the operation and behavior of the aspects of the systems and methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that one of ordinary skill in the art would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the aspects based on the description herein.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

