---

title: System and method for configuration management service
abstract: System and method for agentless computing system configuration management in networked environments. A configuration management service may be implemented as a service on a network with a standard network interface. A client may communicate with the service to specify a configuration for a target system, for example through a browser interface. The specified configuration may be stored by the service. The service may generate a package according to the specified configuration. The package may be delivered to the target system via the network. The package may then install the configuration, for example, one or more software, data, or other digital components, on the target systems in accordance with the specified configuration. The clients may request that the service verify and/or update the installed configuration on the target system. The service may, in response, generate an update package for the installed configuration. Target systems may include computer systems and virtual machines.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09350610&OS=09350610&RS=09350610
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09350610
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140703
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 958 844 filed Dec. 18 2007 now U.S. Pat. No 8 775 577 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The Internet sometimes called simply the Net is a worldwide system of computer networks in which a client at any one computer may with permission obtain information from any other computer. The most widely used part of the Internet is the World Wide web often abbreviated WWW which is commonly referred to as the web. The web may be defined as all the resources e.g. web pages and web sites and users on the Internet that use the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or variations thereof to access the resources. A web site is a related collection of web files that includes a beginning file called a home page. From the home page the user may navigate to other web pages on the web site. A web server program is a program that using the client server model and HTTP serves the files that form the web pages of a web site to the web users whose computers contain HTTP client programs e.g. web browsers that forward requests and display responses. A web server program may host one or more web sites.

Various configuration management systems for managing configurations e.g. installations of application environments on computing systems over a network exist. These systems tend to be directed at specific vendors applications or suites of products and specific to particular hardware and or software platforms. Furthermore these systems tend to rely on agents or daemons that reside on the computing systems and perform management e.g. verification tasks in the background. Administrators tend to be wary of agents and daemons that run on their systems to perform various tasks for the most part outside of their control or knowledge. In addition agents and daemons typically communicate with applications running remotely on some server or servers over the network. Such communications between an agent or daemon on a client system and a remote server may be difficult or impossible from client systems behind firewalls or Network Address Translation NAT servers.

Generally speaking a web service interface may be configured to provide a standard cross platform API Application Programming Interface for communication between a client requesting some service to be performed and the service provider. In some embodiments a web service interface may be configured to support the exchange of documents or messages including information describing the service request and response to that request. Such documents or messages may be exchanged using standardized web protocols such as the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP for example and may be formatted in a platform independent data format such as eXtensible Markup Language XML for example.

While embodiments are described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that embodiments are not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit embodiments to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope as defined by the appended claims. The headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to.

Various embodiments of a system and method for the configuration management of software and other digital components of computing systems in networked environments are described. Embodiments may provide a generic agentless configuration management service for installing and managing configurations of various content on potentially heterogeneous target systems. Embodiments may be used to manage configurations of target systems independent of specific hardware and or software platforms. The configuration management service may be accessed by clients of the service to specify desired configurations of various content for example software application environments data other digital components or combinations thereof to be installed or updated on specified target systems. For example a desired configuration may be a particular application environment and the content may be the software and data files for implementing the particular application environment on a specified target system. The configuration management service may be accessed by a client to request that a particular configuration e.g. a particular application environment be installed on two or more different target system platforms. For example a client may specify that a particular word processing application is to be installed on two different hardware platforms one of which uses a 32 bit processor and the other a 64 bit processor. The configuration management service may deliver a package to the first platform that may include components for implementing a configuration e.g. an application environment according to the first platform s particular requirements and may deliver a different package to the second platform that may include one or more different components for implementing the same configuration e.g. application environment according to the second platform s particular requirements. The configuration management service may also be accessed by a client to specify different configurations for two or more similar or different target systems.

Embodiments of the configuration management service may allow the abstraction of particular configurations across heterogeneous target systems. The configuration management service may be used to specify a particular logical configuration to be installed across a collection of heterogeneous target systems that may include target systems with different hardware platforms and that may include physical and virtual systems.

The target system may be a computer system or a virtual machine implemented on one or more computer systems. A client may also specify communications information for the specified target system s to the configuration management service e.g. a specific program on the target system s with which the configuration management service is to communicate network addresses protocols to be used security requirements times and so on. The communications information indicates how the configuration management service is to communicate with the target system s . The configuration management service may provide a generic configuration management service in that it is not specific to or limited to any particular client content configuration or target system.

In one embodiment the configuration management service may be implemented as a service on a network with a standard network interface. In one embodiment the configuration management service may be implemented as a web service with a web service interface. In embodiments a client may communicate with the configuration management service to specify configurations and communications information programmatically through a browser interface or via other mechanisms that are capable of initiating service requests over a network e.g. the Internet in accordance with the interface to the configuration management service. The specified configurations and communications information may be stored by the configuration management service for example in a database on back end storage. The configuration management service may generate digital packages according to the specified configurations. The generated packages may be delivered to the target computer systems via the network according to the specified communications information. The delivered packages may then install the content for example one or more software data or other digital components on the target computer systems in accordance with the specified configurations and may perform other necessary or desired actions on the target systems to install the specified configuration.

Embodiments may provide one or more mechanisms whereby clients may request that the configuration management service verify and or update previously installed configurations of indicated systems. When a client generates and sends a request to verify or update the configuration on a system the configuration management service may access the stored configurations to verify that the configuration of the content on the system matches the stored configuration specification. If the configuration management service determines that the configuration of the system is not in accordance with the stored configuration specification for example if a component specified by the stored configuration has been deleted from the system the configuration management service may automatically generate an update package and send the package to the system to update or otherwise correct the configuration on the system. Alternatively the configuration management service may notify the client and the client may if desired request that the configuration management service update or otherwise correct the configuration on the system for example by generating and sending an update package. The client may also specify communications information that indicates how the configuration management service is to communicate with the target system s .

Embodiments may be agentless that is embodiments may not install or rely upon an agent or daemon that resides on the target systems and runs in the background or executes on a periodic or aperiodic schedule to verify and manage the configuration on the target systems. Instead the client may control the requesting of configuration installations and verifications and the specification of how to communicate with target systems to the configuration management service via the interface to the configuration management service using service requests or messages as necessary or desired. For example a client may request installation or verification via a browser that generates service requests to the interface of the configuration management service in accordance with the client s input. Client input may include but is not limited to one or more of identification of target system s configuration specifications and communications information for the target systems. As another example a client or a third party may generate a program script etc. that may be used to periodically or aperiodically generate web service requests e.g. requests to verify a configuration on a particular target system in accordance to the interface to the configuration management service.

Packages may include various combinations of components which may include but are not limited to installers applications programs software modules drivers data files image files scripts plug ins references to external resources which may be accessed by the target systems or any other type of digital component that may be necessary or desired for installation on a target system. The configuration management service may construct a package from components obtained or generated locally and or from components obtained from remote locations e.g. from other servers or locations on an intranet or on the internet. Components may be provided by the service provider or may be obtained from one or more third parties. In one embodiment the contents of the package may be compressed for transmission over the network. In one embodiment the package may be encrypted for secure transmission over a public network for example using private key public key encryption.

The target systems to which packages may be delivered may include both computer devices and virtual machines. Target computer devices may include but are not limited to mainframes server systems desktop computers personal computers handheld or portable computing devices such as Personal Digital Assistants PDAs and so on. In general target systems may include any computer device that is capable of network communications. Packages may be delivered via the network to the local storage of any such system and installed thereon.

A virtual machine VM may be defined as a computing environment which is created within or on top of another environment e.g. a single virtual machine may be created across numerous computer systems or on a single computer system . The computing environment that a virtual machine runs within may be referred to as a host. One host environment may run one VM or multiple VMs. Because VMs are separated from the physical resources they use the host environment may be able to dynamically assign those resources among them. An exemplary virtual machine environment to which packages may be delivered may be implemented on a network via a network based virtual machine service that provides resizable compute and or storage capacity across one or more computer systems on the network to users as a virtual machine. The service may allow users to create and manage custom virtual machine environments across one or more computer systems on the network. The service may provide interfaces for a user to for example requisition computer systems or portions of systems for use in a virtual machine release computer systems from use load the created virtual machine with data and or applications and manage the loaded data and or applications manage network access permissions to the user s virtual machine and run an image created on the user s virtual machine using as many or few systems as desired.

Packages may be delivered to a single target system for example through a direct communications link between the configuration management service and the target system. The target system may be but is not necessarily the system from which the configuration was specified to the configuration management service by the client. Alternatively a package generated according to a configuration specified by a client may be delivered to two or more specified target systems. In one embodiment communications information as specified by the client may be used by the configuration management service to communicate with the target system. In one embodiment bit torrent may be used to deliver packages to target systems. In bit torrent a .torrent file may be generated that acts as a bit torrent feed if the client has specified multiple target systems the target systems may all be directed to that bit torrent to receive the package. Other methods of delivering packages to one or more target systems are possible and contemplated. The communication of packages from the configuration management service to the target systems may be secured for example using private key public key encryption or other means of securing communications over a public network. In one embodiment the security to be used to communicate with a target system may be specified by the client.

Target systems may be heterogeneous and are not limited to any particular manufacturer hardware set operating system computing environment programming language virtual machine implementation and so on. In other words embodiments may be used to generate and deliver packages of generic components for installation on generic target systems and for updates to installed configurations on target systems. Embodiments may be used to generate and deliver packages for installing a particular configuration e.g. a particular application environment on two or more different target system platforms. For example a client may specify that a particular word processing application is to be installed on two different hardware platforms one of which uses a 32 bit processor and the other a 64 bit processor.

In embodiments of the configuration management service implemented as a web service documents or messages may be exchanged between client systems and the configuration management service using standardized web protocols such as the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP for example and may be formatted in a platform independent data format such as eXtensible Markup Language XML . Using a standardized web protocol such as HTTP allows configuration management to be performed through firewalls and NATs.

In one embodiment the configuration management service may be implemented as a service on a network with a standard network interface that may use standardized protocols e.g. HTTP for communicating over the network e.g. Internet . In one embodiment the configuration management service may be implemented as a web service with a web service interface that may use standardized protocols e.g. HTTP for communicating over the network e.g. Internet . In one embodiment the interface to the configuration management service may be published as an open Application Programming Interface API that allows developers to program client side applications modules web pages or even other services in accordance with the interface to the configuration management service. For example a developer may generate a web page for presentation via a browser to clients that allows the clients to specify particular configurations and communications information as necessary or desired and that leverages the interface to the configuration management service to send configuration requests specifying the particular configurations to the configuration management service via the Internet. As another example a developer may program a client side application to communicate with the configuration management service in accordance with the published interface to the configuration management service.

Clients may determine desired or necessary configurations for various target systems. illustrates a server a client device and a virtual machine as target systems. The target systems to which packages may be delivered may include computer devices and virtual machines. In general target computer devices may include any computer device that is capable of network communications. Packages may be delivered via the network to the local storage of any such system and installed thereon. An exemplary virtual machine environment to which packages may be delivered may be implemented on a network via a network based virtual machine service that provides resizable compute and or storage capacity across one or more computer systems on the network to users as a virtual machine. Embodiments may be used to deliver packages to other virtual machine environments. A client may define a configuration to specify a virtual machine implementation within such a virtual machine environment.

Configuration management system may be a generic configuration management system configured to build and deliver different packages for installing a variety of different heterogeneous configurations to heterogeneous target systems. That is the configurations may be for a variety of different applications software systems and so on and the target systems may be of different types makes and models may include different hardware and or software architectures or environments and may run different operating systems storage systems applications or combinations of applications application suites such as word processing suites and so on. As previously noted a target system may be implemented as a computing device or as a virtual machine. Configuration management system may be configured to build and deliver packages for installing a particular configuration e.g. a particular application environment on two or more different target system platforms.

Configuration management system may be generic and not limited in regards to the types of configurations on target systems that clients may request from configuration management system . For each received configuration request the configuration management service may build a specific package including one or more particular components for implementing the particular configuration indicated by the configuration request on the particular target system. For example one package delivered to server may include one or more components for implementing a requested office application suite another package delivered to client system may include one or more components for implementing a game or game system. Components included in a package may be provided by the service provider and or by one or more third parties. The components may be obtained locally or from remote locations e.g. from other servers or locations on an intranet or on the internet.

As an example a client may use application on server to specify a configuration to be installed on server or on some other target system or systems such as on virtual machine . The client may also specify communications information for the specified target system s e.g. a specific program on the target system with which the configuration management service is to communicate network addresses protocols to be used security requirements times and so on. Application may allow the client to specify or select a desired configuration and may provide a communications interface to generate and send the configuration request to configuration management service in one or more messages in accordance with configuration management interface . As another example a client may use a browser on client system to specify a configuration to be installed on client system or on some other target system or systems such as on virtual machine . The client may also specify communications information for the specified target system s . Browser may present a web page or pages that may allow the client to specify or select a desired configuration. Browser generates and sends the configuration request to configuration management service in one or more messages in accordance with configuration management interface .

In one embodiment a configuration request may include a client identifier that uniquely identifies the client that originated the request. A configuration request may include other information such as information describing the hardware and or software computing environment of one or more target systems on which the requested configuration is to be installed and communications information for the specified target system s . Upon receiving a configuration request configuration management service may collect one or more components necessary for the configuration and compile the components into a package. Components may include but are not limited to installers applications programs software modules drivers data files image files scripts plug ins or any other type of digital component that may be necessary or desired for installation on the target system. Information provided in the configuration request may be used by configuration management service to determine particular components for inclusion in the package for particular target systems. Components included in a package may be provided by the service provider and or by one or more third parties. The components may be obtained locally or from remote locations e.g. from other servers or locations on an intranet or on the internet. An example of an intranet may be a Local Area Network LAN of a company or company site. The package may then be delivered via the network e.g. Internet to the one or more specified target systems. The information may be delivered according to specified communications information for the specified target systems. The communication of the package from the configuration management service to the target system s may be secured for example using private key public key encryption or other means of securing communications over a public network. In one embodiment the security to be used to communicate with a target system may be specified by the client.

Once a package is received on a target system the package may then be installed. The client may initiate or otherwise control the installation of the configuration or alternatively the installation of the configuration may be performed automatically by the package. In one embodiment a package may include a module that once the package arrives on the target system runs on the target system to check the current state of the target system in regard to the requested configuration associated with the package. The module may for example determine that one or more components needed for the configuration are already present on the target system or that one or more additional or different components not included in the package are needed for the installation. If a component is already installed on the target system the package may not re install the component. If additional or different components are needed the module may attempt to obtain the needed components for the installation.

Configuration management service may generate a configuration specification according to the configuration request and store the configuration specification in configuration database on data storage . Configuration database may include configuration specifications received from multiple clients and thus may be indexed by client. In one embodiment the client identifiers may be used to index the configuration specifications. In addition the configuration specifications may be provided with identifiers used to index and distinguish the particular configuration specification from other configuration specifications requested by particular clients. The stored configuration specifications may be used by the configuration management service for example to track configurations for clients and to verify installed configurations on target systems upon client request for verification.

In one embodiment package may include a module that once the package arrives on the target system runs on the target system to check the current state of the target system in regard to the requested configuration associated with the package . The module may for example determine that one or more components needed for the configuration are already present on the target system or that one or more additional or different components not included in the package are needed for the installation. If a component is already installed on the target system the package may not re install the component. If additional or different components are needed the module may attempt to obtain the needed components for the installation. For example the module may send a message to the configuration management service to request additional or different components. The configuration management service may then generate a new package containing the requested components. Alternatively the module may attempt to obtain needed components from some other source for example from a different source via the network or from an installation CD or other storage media associated with the target system .

In the client may desire to verify the installed configuration on target system . For example one or more components of the installed configuration may have been deleted moved or damaged or the client may be concerned that one or more components may be out of date. The client may use a browser or some other application on target system to generate a verification request for the installed configuration . While shows the verification request as being generated on target system a verification request for target system may be generated on some other system. The verification request may be a message in accordance with configuration management interface . The verification request may include a client identifier that uniquely identifies the client and also may include an identifier for the particular installed configuration that the client desires to be verified. In one embodiment a verification request may indicate one or more installed configurations on one or more target systems to be verified. The client may also specify communications information for the specified target system s .

The verification request may be sent to configuration management service via the network. Upon receiving the verification request via configuration management interface configuration management service may access the corresponding configuration specification in configuration database and perform verification of the installed configuration on target system over the network. If the installed configuration is determined to be correct configuration management service may notify the client. If the installed configuration is incorrect configuration management service may correct or update the configuration for example as indicated in .

In one embodiment to perform verification of the installed configuration on target system over the network a software module that is configured to communicate with the configuration management service to verify the installed configuration may be included in the installation package illustrated in and installed on the target system . In response to receiving a verification request from the client the configuration management service may send one or more messages to the software module that indicate the expected configuration as indicated in configuration database . The software module may check the installed configuration on target system to verify the configuration against the expected configuration and reply to the configuration management service to indicate if the installed configuration is correct or incorrect. Alternatively the module may not be included in the installation package but may instead be sent to the target system in response to the verification request received from the client.

In configuration management service has determined that installed configuration on target system is not correct. For example one or more components may be missing damaged or out of date or some change in target system may require that one or more components be added removed replaced or modified for compatibility. In one embodiment configuration management service may generate an update package for delivery to and installation on target system . Configuration management service may include one or more components in update package . Components included in a package may be provided by the service provider and or by one or more third parties. The components may be obtained locally or from remote locations e.g. from other servers or locations on an intranet or on the internet. The update package may then be transmitted to target system via the network. The communication of the package from the configuration management service to the target system may be secured for example using private key public key encryption or other means of securing communications over a public network. The updated package may subsequently be installed on the target system automatically or alternatively under control of the client to update the previously installed configuration . Configuration management service may update the configuration specification stored in configuration database if necessary.

A method similar to that described above in reference to may be used to add or remove components from an installed configuration. The client may generate a configuration change request that specifies component s to be added to or removed from an installed configuration . The configuration change request may be sent to the configuration management service in accordance with the configuration management interface . The configuration management service may generate an update package in accordance with the configuration change request and may modify the stored configuration specification corresponding to the installed configuration accordingly. The update package may be sent to the target system and installed or run on the target system to effect the requested changes in the installed configuration .

A client may specify a configuration for one or more virtual machines to configuration management service for example via a web page presented via a browser on a computer system. The client may also specify communications information that indicates how the configuration management service is to communicate with the virtual machine environment. The configuration management service may store a configuration specification for the virtual machine s to configuration database . As part of the initiation process of a virtual machine a package request may be sent to configuration management service . For example a script executed during the initiation process may include a command line that initiates the package request. In response to receiving the package request configuration management system generates an installation package and sends the package to the virtual machine or to some target system on which at least part of the virtual machine is being implemented. The communication of the package from the configuration management service to the virtual machine may be secured for example using private key public key encryption or other means of securing communications over a public network. In one embodiment the security to be used may be specified by the client. The package may subsequently be installed on the virtual machine automatically or alternatively under direction of the client. The stored configuration specification may be used to verify the installed configuration on the virtual machine for example as described above in reference to .

Configuration management service may be generic and not limited in regards to the types of configurations on target systems that clients may request from configuration management system . For each received configuration request the configuration management service may build a specific package including one or more particular components for implementing the particular configuration indicated by the configuration request on the particular target system . For example package A may include one or more components for implementing a requested office application suite or word processing application on target system A and package B may include one or more components for implementing a game or game system on target system B. As another example target systems A and B may implement different hardware platforms and or software environments package A may include components for implementing an application environment on target system A according to its particular requirements and package B may include one or more different components for implementing the same application environment on target system B according to its particular requirements. For each received configuration request the configuration management service may also store a configuration specification to configuration database . The configuration specification may be indexed by client identifier and may further be indexed by an identifier for the particular configuration and or target system.

Once the packages are built the configuration management service may deliver the packages to the indicated target systems via a network which may be but is not necessarily the same network or communications channel via which the configuration requests are received. Each package may be delivered to its target system according to particular communications information specified by the client in regard to that target system . In this example package A is delivered to target system A and package B is delivered to target system B. Once a package is received on a target system the package may install or may be accessed by the client or another user or administrator to install the particular configuration on the target system . In this example package A installs configuration A on target system A and package B installs configuration B on target system B.

In one embodiment a package may include a module that once the package arrives on the target system runs on the target system to check the current state of the target system in regard to the requested configuration associated with the package . The module may for example determine that one or more components needed for the configuration are already present on the target system or that one or more additional or different components not included in the package are needed for the installation. If a component is already installed on the target system the package may not re install the component. If additional or different components are needed the module may attempt to obtain the needed components for the installation. For example the module may send a message to the configuration management service to request additional or different components. The configuration management service may then generate a new package containing the requested components. Alternatively the module may attempt to obtain needed components from some other source for example from a different source via the network or from an installation CD or other storage media associated with the target system .

As indicated at in response to receiving the configuration request via the interface to the configuration management service the configuration management service generates a package in accordance with the configuration request. The package may include one or more components for implementing the configuration on the target system s . Components may include software and or data. In one embodiment the package or components in the package may be compressed.

As indicated at the configuration management service sends the package to the one or more target systems via the network. In one embodiment communications information as specified by the client may be used by the configuration management service to communicate with the target system. In one embodiment bit torrent may be used to distribute the package to the target system s . In other embodiments other methods for sending information over the network to target system s may be used. In one embodiment the transmission of the package over the network may be encrypted or otherwise secured for secure communications over a public network. In one embodiment the security to be used to communicate with a target system may be specified by the client.

As indicated at the configuration management service may store a configuration specification to data storage for example as an entry or entries in a database. The configuration specifications in the data storage may be indexed by the client identifier. A client may request more than one configuration therefore the configuration specifications may be assigned configuration identifiers that are at least unique for the client and the configuration specifications may be further indexed by the configuration identifiers.

As indicated at once the package is received on a target system the package may install the configuration on the target system. In one embodiment the package may be configured to automatically install the configuration on the target system. In one embodiment the package may install the configuration on the target system under direction of the client or some other user with administrative authority on the client system. In one embodiment a package may include a module that once the package arrives on the target system runs on the target system to check the current state of the target system in regard to the requested configuration associated with the package. The module may for example determine that one or more components needed for the configuration are already present on the target system or that one or more additional or different components not included in the package are needed for the installation. If a component is already installed on the target system the package may not re install the component. If additional or different components are needed the module may attempt to obtain the needed components for the installation for example the module may send a message to the configuration management service to request additional or different components.

As noted above in one embodiment the target system s may be virtual machines. A client may use embodiments of the configuration management service to initially specify one or more configurations for installation on the virtual machine s to the configuration management service in accordance with the interface to the configuration management service. The configuration management service may store configuration specifications for the virtual machines according to the client s specifications. When one of the client s specified virtual machines subsequently starts up a package request may be automatically generated and sent to the configuration management service for the virtual machine in accordance with the interface to the configuration management service. Upon receiving the package request the configuration management service may generate a package according to the stored configuration specification for the virtual machine and send the package to the virtual machine for installation.

As indicated at in response to receiving the configuration verification request the configuration management service may verify the specified installed configuration on a target system according to the stored configuration specification corresponding to the installed configuration. Upon receiving the request via the interface the configuration management service may access the corresponding configuration specification from a configuration database and perform verification of the installed configuration on the target system over the network. In one embodiment communications information as specified by the client may be used by the configuration management service to communicate with the target system. In one embodiment to perform verification of the installed configuration on the target system over the network a software module that is configured to communicate with the configuration management service to verify the installed configuration may be included in the installation package. In response to receiving a verification request from the client the configuration management service may send one or more messages to the software module that indicate the expected configuration as indicated in configuration database. The software module may check the installed configuration on the target system to verify the configuration against the expected configuration and reply to the configuration management service to indicate if the installed configuration is correct or incorrect. Alternatively the module may not be included in the installation package but may instead be sent to the target system in response to the verification request received from the client. In one embodiment a module or program to which the configuration management service is to communicate may be provided by the client and may be specified to the configuration management service as part of the communications information. Other methods of verifying the configuration over the network may be used in other embodiments.

At if the configuration is correct the client may be notified as indicated at . If the configuration is not correct in one embodiment the configuration management service may generate an update package as indicated at . In one embodiment the update package may be automatically generated upon determining that the installed configuration is incorrect. In one embodiment an update package is generated upon receiving approval by the client. In this embodiment the client may be notified that the configuration is incorrect and asked if the client wants an update package to be generated and sent to the target system to correct the installed configuration. The update package may include one or more components for correcting the configuration on the target system. Components may include software and or data. In one embodiment the update package or components in the package may be compressed.

As indicated at the configuration management service sends the update package to the target system via the network. In one embodiment bit torrent may be used to send the update package to the target system. In other embodiments other methods for sending information over the network to target system s may be used. In one embodiment the transmission of the update package over the network may be encrypted or otherwise secured for secure communications over a public network.

As indicated at the configuration management service updates the stored configuration specification if necessary. For example verification of the installed configuration may discover that one or more components necessary for the configuration and included in the update package are not indicated in the stored configuration specification. As another example verification of the installed configuration may discover that one or more components of the package are old versions of available components and therefore the update package may include newer versions of the components and the configuration specification may be updated accordingly.

As indicated at the update package may be installed on the target system. In one embodiment the package may be configured to automatically update or correct the configuration on the target system. In one embodiment the package may update or correct the configuration on the target system under direction of the client or some other user with administrative authority on the client system.

A method similar to that described above in reference to may be used to add components to or remove components from an installed configuration. The client may generate a configuration change request that specifies component s to be added or removed from the configuration. The configuration change request may be sent to the configuration management service in accordance with the web services interface. The configuration management service may generate an update package in accordance with the configuration change request and may modify the stored configuration specification accordingly. The update package may be sent to the specified target system s and installed or run on the target system s to effect the requested changes in the installed configuration s .

As noted above in one embodiment the target system s may be virtual machines. A client may use embodiments of the configuration management service to initially specify one or more configurations for installation on the virtual machine s to the configuration management service in accordance with the interface to the configuration management service. The configuration management service may store configuration specifications for the virtual machines according to the client s specifications. When the client s specified virtual machines subsequently start up package requests may be automatically generated and sent to the configuration management service for the virtual machines in accordance with the interface to the configuration management service. Upon receiving the package request the configuration management service may generate package according to the stored configuration specifications for the virtual machines and send the package to the virtual machines for installation. In this embodiment the client may generate a verification request to verify installed packages on one or more of the virtual machines.

In one embodiment a web server that implements a configuration management service as described herein may include a general purpose computer system that includes or is configured to access one or more computer accessible media such as computer system illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface .

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processors capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by processor s . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing desired functions such as those methods and techniques described above for a configuration management service are shown stored within system memory as code .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network such as other computer systems or communications devices as illustrated in for example. In particular network interface may be configured to allow communication between computer system and client systems through various communications channels via network s . These client systems may include both client computer systems and virtual machines and may include what has been described herein as target systems and client systems from which clients may specify configurations and request configuration verifications. A client system may be both that is a client system may be both a target system and the system from which the client specifies a configuration or requests a configuration verification. The communications channels may include but are not limited to conventional and mobile telephone and text messaging communications channels. Network interface may commonly support one or more wireless networking protocols e.g. Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 or another wireless networking standard . However in various embodiments network interface may support communication via any suitable wired or wireless general data networks such as other types of Ethernet network for example. Additionally network interface may support communication via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a computer accessible medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above for for implementing a configuration management service. However in other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD coupled to computer system via I O interface . A computer accessible medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc that may be included in some embodiments of computer system as system memory or another type of memory. Further a computer accessible medium may include transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. As well as transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as network and or a wireless link.

The various methods as illustrated in the Figures and described herein represent exemplary embodiments of methods. The methods may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof The order of method may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc.

Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. It is intended to embrace all such modifications and changes and accordingly the above description to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

