---

title: Monetizing downloadable files based on resolving custodianship thereof to referring publisher and presentation of monetized content in a modal overlay contemporaneously with download
abstract: The monetization of downloadable files associated with a custodial host site based on resolving custodianship to a referrer publisher with subsequent presentation of monetized content within a modal overlay is disclosed. A request from a client device has a resource identifier and a referrer publisher identifier. The request for the downloadable file is evaluated against one or more publisher and custodianship policy rules, which relate to a file extension of the downloadable file, a format of the resource identifier, a custodial domain on which the downloadable file is stored, and a referral domain as specified in the referrer publisher identifier. When custodianship is resolved, a modal overlay on which monetized content is incorporated is presented on the client device. The modal overlay is concurrently displayed with the transfer of the downloadable file to the client device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09451011&OS=09451011&RS=09451011
owner: 
number: 09451011
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140627
---
This application relates to and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 841 740 filed Jul. 1 2013 and entitled A METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DETERMINING CUSTODIANSHIP OF DOWNLOADABLE FILES AND DELIVERY OF MONETIZED CONTENT THROUGH AN OMNISTITIAL the entirety of the disclosure of which is wholly incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates to network based data transfers and more particularly to Internet based content delivery and monetization over the open Web environment as well as closed proprietary systems to expand opportunities for custodial publishers to receive revenue associated with downloadable digital content.

Traditionally advertisements have been the means by which publishers monetized digital assets. These advertisements are embedded on web pages and presented in visual proximity to various written and or visual materials such as articles videos and the like. The presentation of advertisements has evolved over time with the earliest examples being standard HTML compatible code embedded within page content as text or images. More recently more engaging presentations are utilized such as pop up pop under advertisements also referred to as superstitials interstitials in which the user is redirected to an intermediary webpage between two other webpages and an advertisement is presented for a predefined time until user action is received in order to transition to the content and dynamic advertisements that expand across a page when a user interacts with an embedded webpage advertisement. Web pages however represent merely a fraction of the digital assets available from publishers today and conventional advertisements are a small portion of the monetized content now available from advertisers. Monetized content may refer to advertisements including video affiliate merchant products monetized search widgets advertorial blurbs promoted social media content such as Pins Tweets and Posts art music and photography etc.

Considering that the systems that handle publisher content on the Internet There are two types of content systems on the Internet in very simplified terms closed and open. A closed system is one in which a group of web pages and or files are locked in a proprietary system or framework and are therefore inaccessible to the public without payment and or a password. An example of such a closed system is a pay per download framework. The file is inaccessible to the general public and only becomes accessible once payment is made a custom URL accessed and or a password is provided by the user to retrieve the file. Certain closed systems such as YouTube have limited attributes of an open system where the files in this case videos are accessible to the public for viewing but the files themselves are inaccessible to the public for download. An open system on the other hand represents the remainder and the majority of the Internet where web pages and or files may be easily linked to by websites around the world and readily accessed by the public at large without any restrictions. Unlike closed systems no payment or passwords are required to access web pages or files that reside within the open web environment.

By some estimates there are billions of downloadable files posted on the Internet that are freely available. These include PDF Portable Document Format documents as well as others in native editable document formats such as .doc .docx files for word processing documents editable in for example Microsoft Word .ppt files for presentation documents editable in for example Microsoft Powerpoint .xls files for spreadsheet documents editable in for example Microsoft Excel .ai files for raster graphics editable in Adobe Illustrator and so forth. Other data such as fonts .ttf mobile applications .app plugins executable applications .exe etc. are additional examples of downloadable files that are available on the Internet. One search engine returned 1.19 billion activity PDF files alone indexed in 0.22 seconds May 2014 representing hundreds of billions or possibly trillions of download instances each year. Thus there is a substantial volume of under monetized assets. With the advent of tablets smart phones wearable computing devices and more intelligent gaming systems the number of daily downloaded files has increased exponentially. According to Apple over five million e books were downloaded during the first 65 days that the Apple iBook store was open many of which were downloaded for free and 2.5 million application installations accounted for and 10 billion downloads in the first six months of 2013. Although network bandwidth and data transfer rates are increasing the demand for such improved network capacity has commensurately increased. Even with a 768 Kbps DSL Digital Subscriber Line connection which is an average broadband home connection in the United States an average music file of about 7 megabytes takes about one minute and 16.46 seconds to download.

New forms of monetizing publishing assets are being developed but most approach the problem through the aforementioned closed systems. One of the challenges of an open web environment is the determination of custodianship of a particular file so that only those with a legitimate monetization right can do so. Free linking is a fundamental aspect of the form and function of the open architecture of the Internet and this essential function is also one of its greatest strengths. That a single file can have multiple incoming links oftentimes in the thousands or tens of thousands can also be the most significant weakness with respect to monetizing digital files. Copyright laws can protect to a certain extent the creator author s ability to exercise control over their dissemination and hence profit from their works. In an open web environment any third party can link directly to any file that is accessible via the Web however ascertaining whether a particular link originator is entitled to monetization is difficult. Closed protective systems provide a partial solution by preventing unauthorized linking to these files but they also eliminate the benefit that would be derived from those same incoming links.

Deep linking is the practice of linking to an interior webpage instead of the homepage of the site without requiring navigation through what can be complex layers of a website. The more invasive practice of Hot linking is the practice of linking directly to a file on a site instead of the hosting publisher s webpage that links to the file thus bringing users directly to those resources. Hot linking to files can be malicious since it may be used to illegally display or access a file directly from a site that is out of the control of the publisher thereby intentionally bypassing associated monetization pages. In the case of video it may be used to illegally display the video bypass any associated advertising and effectively misappropriate the bandwidth of the site. Access to the content outside the terms service that is access without first viewing the advertising may rise to an infringement of the provider s property rights.

Again one of the most significant strengths of the open environment of the Web is that individuals and entities can link directly to materials around the world. Thus there may be certain incidental benefits of hot linking to a downloadable file that help a publisher or site owner. For instance sets of inbound links can increase the publisher s rank within an Internet search system. The challenge is in retaining the benefits while eliminating the detrimental aspects of hot linking.

Because Internet commerce has been largely content driven in its short history the ability to open this immense pool of publishers assets to monetization by advertisers and merchants would represent a significant revenue enhancement to all stakeholders. Accordingly there is a need in the art to associate monetized content to publishers downloadable assets. This need for the monetization of downloadable files exists in the open web environment where custodianship of the downloadable content has been determined as well as in closed systems where it would function as an alternative to currently available methods.

As mentioned above monetization of conventional web page content has been achieved with advertising which is generally limited to web page views and click through interactions web page to web page intermediary redirect advertisements embedded proprietary video advertisements and so on. With the distinctive needs related to the monetization of downloadable files there is also a need in the art for an effective presentation of the same. Thus it would be desirable for a specialized monetization modality to accommodate the monetized content related to navigation to specific downloadable files

The present disclosure is directed to the monetization of downloadable files based on resolving custodianship between a publisher and a file host with policy based rule sets scripts and identifiers. Various technical improvements to inserting monetization content into data transmissions in an open Web environment are also disclosed. A publisher can thus attach monetized content as defined herein to specified files without complicated access restriction modalities. Once custodianship is identified the assets can be correctly monetized through advertising publishing. Accordingly content creators can maintain monetization control over their works.

In one embodiment a method for resolving custodianship of a downloadable file is disclosed. The downloadable file may be stored on a custodial host site and referenced by a resource identifier. The request may originate from a client device. The method may include receiving the request for the downloadable file generated from the client device through the custodial host site. The request may include the resource identifier and a referrer publisher identifier that specifies an origin from which the request for the downloadable file was generated. The method may also include evaluating the request for the downloadable file against one or more custodianship policy rules. Each of these custodianship policy rules may be defined by a custodianship parameter related to a part of at least one of the resource identifier and the referrer publisher identifier and a criterion value that corresponds to a positive evaluation of custodianship. There may further be a step of designating the request for the downloadable file as having the positive evaluation of custodianship in response to parts of at least one of the resource identifier and the referrer publisher identifier matching criterion values for at least two particular ones of the custodianship policy rules. The custodianship parameter of one of the custodianship policy rules may be one of a file extension of the downloadable file as specified in the resource identifier a format of the resource identifier a custodial domain on which the downloadable file is stored as specified in the resource identifier and a referral domain as specified in the referrer publisher identifier. This policy based system allows custodianship criteria to be highly flexible and responsive.

Another embodiment is a method for monetizing a downloadable file stored on a custodial host site and requested by a client device. There may be a step of receiving a request for the downloadable file from the client device the request including a resource identifier and a referrer publisher identifier specifying an origin from which the request for the downloadable file was generated. Furthermore there may be a step of setting a file type authorization for the request based upon an evaluation of a file extension of the downloadable file being included in an array of authorized file types. There may also be a step of setting a publisher custodianship for the request based at least in part upon an evaluation of the resource identifier in the request. The method may continue with transmitting a modal overlay display instruction to the client device with the file type authorization and the publisher custodianship for the request being established. There may further be a step of directing a transmission of the monetized content to the client device for display thereon in a modal overlay being generated in response to the modal overlay display instruction. The method may include directing a transmission of the downloadable file specified in the request to the client device concurrently with the transmission of the modal overlay display instruction.

Yet another embodiment contemplates method for presenting monetized content for a downloadable file stored on a custodial host site and referenced by a resource identifier. The method may include rendering on the client device a first view of a referral page received from a publisher site. The referral page may include the resource identifier for the downloadable file. There may be a step of receiving a load triggering event corresponding to a request for the downloadable file from a user on the client device. Furthermore the method may include transmitting the request for the downloadable file to the custodial host site. The request may also include the resource identifier. There may also be a step of rendering a modal overlay over the referral page following a validation of custodianship of the downloadable file by the referral page. Thereafter there may be a step of initiating a transfer instance of the downloadable file from the custodial host site at a time that is one of concurrent with the rendering of the modal overlay and subsequent to the rendering of the modal overlay data of the downloadable file being received on the client device from the custodial host site during the transfer instance. The method may also include updating a download progress indicator within the modal overlay during the transfer instance and then closing the modal overlay in response to a modal overlay termination event. The modal overlay termination event may be one of a user input closure activity and a monetization system generated termination event.

Still another embodiment of the present disclosure contemplates a method for monetizing a downloadable file being accessed by a client device. The method may include deriving an extension type of the downloadable file. Additionally the method may include a step of validating an authorization to monetize the downloadable file according to one or more rules as set by at least one of a custodial publisher and a monetization system. One of the rules may relate to a file extension. There may be a step of applying one or more characteristics associated with the downloadable file including one or more presentation characteristics of monetized content within a modal overlay presentable on the client device. Furthermore there may be a step of applying one or more characteristics associated with the one or more rules including one or more presentation characteristics of monetized content within the modal overlay presentable on the client device. The method may additionally include a step of customizing one or more forms of monetized content based on the identified characteristics associated with the downloadable file and on the identified characteristics associated with the one or more rules by customizing a presentation of monetized content based on the one or more identified presentation characteristics of the content within the modal overlay. The method may also include transmitting the customized monetized content for display in the modal overlay.

The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of certain embodiments of monetizing downloadable files based on resolving custodianship thereof to a referring publisher and presenting monetized content in a modal overlay contemporaneously with the download. It is not intended to represent the only forms of these methods that may be developed or utilized. The description sets forth the various functions in connection with the illustrated embodiments but it is to be understood however that the same or equivalent functions may be accomplished by different embodiments that are also intended to be encompassed within the scope of the present disclosure. It is further understood that the use of relational terms such as first and second and the like are used solely to distinguish one entity from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities.

The block diagram of illustrates a networked computing environment in which various embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented. By way of example the environment is the open Web where various computer systems communicate with each other to exchange information over a common network modality e.g. the Internet . The Web in general terms may be comprised of numerous hyperlinked documents also referred to as webpages stored on various server computer systems and served to client devices upon request Reference to webpages in the present disclosure however is not intended to be limiting and could also encompass other interactive media connected to the Internet including interactive flipbooks and media as well as documents videos apps and games with embedded links The contemplated systems and methods will be described in terms of this open Web environment though it will be appreciated by those having ordinary skill in the art that alternatives may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In the context of the exemplary networked computing environment the term client is understood to refer to the role of the client device as a requestor of data or services while the term server is understood to refer to the role of the server computer system to provide such requested data or services. It is possible that the components of the server computer system may request data or services in one transaction and provide data or services in a different transaction. The illustrated networked computing environment is generalized and it will be appreciated that there are numerous variations with respect to implementation specificities that have not been set forth in the present disclosure.

Although depicted as a conventional desktop personal computer the client device is understood to encompass any general purpose data processing apparatus with which a user may interact. Broadly the client device has a data processor a memory one or more input devices and one or more output devices. A basic configuration that may be suitable for use in connection with the systems and methods of the present disclosure may include an output device that is a display screen that can generate a graphical output and an input device by which inputs can be provided. Furthermore because data exchanges with other systems and the Internet in general is contemplated the client device is also understood to include a networking and data communications modality.

The data processor of the client device executes a series of pre programmed instructions based on certain inputs provided by the user via the input devices to generate resultant outputs on the output devices. The instructions software may be stored in non transitory media such as the aforementioned memory. These instructions may be those of an operating system that controls the basic functions of the client device including file management input output and so forth. The instructions may also be those of a web browser application that generates and transmits the requests for the aforementioned webpages from the web server computer systems receives the requested webpages and renders its contents.

The client device may be any data processing device with the aforementioned basic features and functions. Thus when referring to the client device other like devices such as tablets mobile communications devices and smart phones Internet enabled television sets e book readers gaming consoles personal digital assistants wearable computing devices and any other Internet capable convergence devices may be substituted.

The web server computer systems may be a conventional data processing apparatus with a processor memory and Internet networking functionality. The server computer systems may each include an operating system that manages the various hardware functions thereof along with a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP server application. One of the basic functions of the HTTP server application involves receiving page requests from the browser application running on the client device retrieving the requested webpage stored on for example a storage device of the server computer system and transmitting the webpage to the client device . Additional functionality such as enforcement of access restrictions and the like may be implemented with scripts that are executed on the server computer system . The various embodiments will be described in terms of data services provided over HTTP and by the HTTP server to serve HTML based webpages but other protocols and server applications therefor may also be utilized. The webpage may be more generally referred to as a document object model DOM element and thus need not be limited to HTML documents.

It will be recognized that the web browser application can request and the HTTP application can serve files other than webpages that are formatted in accordance with Hypertext Markup Language HTML . For example the Portable Document Format PDF is one of the more widely used for document sharing as it is possible to preserve the formatting and visual appearance of documents regardless of platform specifics. The web browser application itself as part of its HTML rendering capabilities typically does not handle PDF documents but rather may rely upon an external application or plug in. Nevertheless due to the additional functionality provided by the browser plug in it may be possible to render PDF documents within the browser window. Common file formats with browser plugins that open or otherwise render its contents within the browser window include video and audio files with extensions such as .mov .mp3 and .mp4 as well as multimedia platform data files such as Flash .swf and so on. The file extension designates a default external application with which the file is to be opened.

Other file formats may not include in browser plugins that may be called upon to open the file within the browser window. Only upon invoking a dedicated external application can its contents be displayed. Such native document formats include for example .doc .docx for word processing documents that can be opened and edited with Microsoft Word .xls for spread sheet documents that can be opened and edited with Microsoft Excel .ppt for presentation documents that can be opened and edited with Microsoft PowerPoint .psd and .ai for graphics and images that can be opened and edited with Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator respectively. Although specific file formats and corresponding file name extensions are noted herein it is to be understood that any format with any file name extension may be utilized.

All of the aforementioned files regardless of the format specifics may be referred to as a downloadable file . In most cases the entirety of the file is transferred to the client device before opening rendering. Alternatively the file may be virtually loaded and displayed in a temporary viewer on the client device or in a remote viewer that is accessible via the client device . In some cases the file may be a container for streaming media and specify a connection to a media streaming source. Generally the downloadable file is understood to be any data file that is opened or otherwise handled outside of the rendering of the webpage within the browser application. The transfer of the downloadable file from the server computer system to the client device however is understood to be the same as the transfer of the webpage . For the downloadable file however there may be a browser sub module referred to as a download manager that initiates the retrieval and stores the file to the local file system. The downloadable file may be stored on the storage device though other storage modalities such as cloud based services are also envisioned.

In further detail for purposes of illustrating the various embodiments of the present disclosure the downloadable file is stored on a custodial host site that is accessible by the client device over the Internet . A resource identifier may identify the downloadable file . In one embodiment this is a Uniform Resource Identifier URI which is a string of characters that are used to identifier a name or a Web resource. The identification is understood to enable interaction with representations of the resource over a network using specific protocols. For example a URI for the downloadable file may be http www.classbrain.com download.pdf where http refers to the protocol to be utilized by the browser application to retrieve a particular file also referred to as the scheme www.classbrain.com refers to the server by its domain name from which the downloadable file may be retrieved i.e. the custodial host site and may also be referred to as a site authority. Furthermore download.pdf refers to the file name of the downloadable file .

Although the exemplary embodiments will be described in terms of the static downloadable file that is stored locally on the custodial host site adaptations to other asset access modalities is contemplated. The downloadable file may also be dynamically generated stored remotely or virtually and may be part of the open Web environment. Along these lines adaptation to existing file delivery systems such as Flickr YouTube Slideshare and so on with the accounts thereof controlled by the publisher is also possible. Those having ordinary skill in the art will recognize the modifications needed to various features of the present disclosure for such adaptations.

The exemplary environment includes a first publisher site a second publisher site and a third publisher site . The first publisher site has a webpage that includes among other content a hyperlink to the downloadable file as well as a webpage that similarly includes a hyperlink to the downloadable file. The second publisher site has a second webpage that also includes among other content the hyperlink to the same downloadable file . Furthermore the third publisher site has a third webpage that includes the hyperlink to the downloadable file . As referenced herein the publisher site along with the corresponding webpage that is generated thereby is understood to be that which is controlled by the publisher and served to the requesting user . The webpages may be static or dynamically generated.

By way of example the custodial host site on which the downloadable file is stored may be the same server computer system as that of the first publisher site . In this regard the domain for the custodial host site and the first publisher site may be the same e.g. www.classbrain.com. The second publisher site may be separate from the first publisher site and accordingly has a different domain e.g. www.classbraingames.com. In this example the first publisher site and the second publisher site may be owned and operated by the same publisher but is understood to be a different site. The third publisher site may be a completely separate and unrelated server computer system from the others described above with an example domain of www.nobrain.com.

Thus as shown it is possible for different publisher sites three in this illustrated example to link to the same downloadable file . While the first publisher site and the second publisher site may be authorized to monetize the downloadable file the unrelated third publisher site may not be. Because the downloadable file is made accessible on the open Web environment downloads are permitted for all users connected to the Internet regardless of monetization.

One embodiment of the present disclosure contemplates a method for resolving custodianship of the downloadable file . Custodianship refers to the relationship or affiliation between a given publisher site or webpage and the downloadable file to which a link is made available from the publisher site or webpage . That a given publisher site has custodianship over the downloadable file also designates the authorization to monetize each download instance thereof that is every access of the downloadable file by the users .

Other embodiments of the present disclosure contemplate the monetization of downloadable assets and the resolution of custodianship is understood to facilitate proper monetization without placing these assets in separate secured directories or specially firewalled systems. It is recognized that many such files are in the public domain available through the Creative Commons for commercial distribution or otherwise available for use by a publisher by a copyright holder or owner. The publisher may not necessarily be a creator of a particular work and so custodianship is intended to characterize the authorization that the publisher has to monetize the downloadable file . Whether or not the publisher has obtained the legal right to use the downloadable file by linking to the same from its webpage may be resolved contractually similar to the way other content such as photographs and written articles may be certified or designated by the publisher as authorized use. The lack of custodianship by a given publisher does not necessarily equate to an infringement of the downloadable file just that the publisher does not have the monetization right.

With reference to the diagram of custodianship may be generally determined based upon an evaluation of the resource identifier e.g. the hyperlink to the downloadable file included in the webpage and a referrer publisher identifier that specifies an origin from which the request for the downloadable file was generated. In the illustrated example the full resource identifier of the downloadable file is http www.classbrain.com download.pdf. The absolute base URL or site authority for determining custodianship is classbrain.com and may be identified independently of the domain name as classbrain. 

The first publisher site serves a webpage that includes a relative hyperlink which is a form that can be utilized when the downloadable file is stored on the same server computer system storage path as the referring document or webpage. The relative hyperlink is specified as download.pdf meaning that the downloadable file resides in the same server directory structure as that which contains the webpage e.g. www.classbrain.com funpages.html. The diagram of also depicts headers corresponding to each of the webpages with the referrer publisher identifier . The custodial host site may thus be the same as the first publisher site . It is understood that when there is a relative hyperlink the referring document or site e.g. the first webpage or the first publisher site has a custodial relationship with the downloadable file .

The first publisher site also serves a webpage that includes an absolute hyperlink . This form is understood to be optional when the downloadable file is stored on the same server and specifies the scheme domain and filename in its entirety. Because no assumptions can be made from a specified absolute hyperlink a further comparison thereof is made with the referrer publisher identifier which in this example is www.classbrain.com stategames.html as specified in the header of the second webpage . Because the domains or absolute base URLs are the same again the referring document or site e.g. the second webpage or the second publisher site has a custodial relationship with the downloadable file .

The second publisher site serves a webpage that also includes the same absolute hyperlink discussed above. In this particular example as set forth in the header of the webpage the referrer publisher identifier is www.classbraingames.com blog states.shtml. In this case the resource identifier hyperlink specifies a domain of the downloadable file as www.classbrain.com which is different from www.classbraingames.com. Accordingly based upon a comparison of the domain names or absolute base URLs alone a conclusion would be reached that the second publisher site webpage does not have a custodial relationship with the downloadable file . However despite having different domains the second publisher site may be owned or otherwise managed by the publisher of the first publisher site and so there may be a custodial relationship regardless.

The third publisher site serves a webpage with the same absolute hyperlink included therein. The referrer publisher identifier is www.nobrain.com fun pages 10 2011.asp and is specified in the header of the webpage . Not only does the third publisher site differ in terms of domain names that is the absolute base URL to that specified in the resource identifier of the downloadable file there is understood be no custodial relationship. As such the third publisher site does not have the right to monetize the transfer of the downloadable file because it would otherwise be allowed to profit from a deep link and infringe upon the rights of the custodial publisher e.g. ClassBrain. The further determination of whether the dissimilar domains are or are not in a custodial relationship with the downloadable file to which there is a hyperlink will be discussed more fully below.

Although the custodial relationship can be resolved intrinsically in relation to the downloadable file and the webpages additional validation may be necessary with respect to the webpages and . Neither of the webpages and have a referrer publisher identifier with a domain that is the same as that of the hyperlink . Along these lines while many publishers only run one publisher site others may have two or three while other publishers still may operate hundreds if not thousands of different sites each with different domains. The block diagram of illustrates a monetization system that may implement one or more aspects of the functionality of further resolving the custodianship of the downloadable file in addition to the aforementioned intrinsic analysis of the referrer publisher identifier and the resource identifier hyperlink .

Generally the monetization system authenticates the classbrain.com site the first publisher site as the primary domain belonging to the publisher Classbrain. Furthermore others including the second publisher site may likewise be authenticated as belonging to the publisher Classbrain. To this end the monetization system is understood to be another server computer system that is capable of storing and processing data.

The association of the first publisher site . e.g. www.classbrain.com and the second publisher site e.g. www.classbraingames.com to the publisher Classbrain may be stored on the monetization system in an approved publisher domain database that stores the absolute base URL and is confirmed validated upon request. As shown in the table of representative of the approved publisher domain database the www.classbrain.com domain and the www.classbraingames.com are included whereas the www.nobrain.com domain is not. Because the publisher Classbrain and the custodial host site thereof have been authenticated it is possible for the proper publisher to monetize a transfer instance of the downloadable file even though the request originated from the third publisher site webpage

By authenticating a custodial host site as belonging to a particular publisher the domain of the referring website that is the publisher site may be matched against the format or domain site authority specified in the hyperlink . The determination of whether or not there is a custodial relationship between the publisher site and the downloadable file as well as whether or not the publisher site has the right to monetization is thus possible. Without authentication of the publisher site another publisher site may erroneously or in some cases maliciously claim the asset of another publisher as its own.

According to one embodiment of the present disclosure upon authentication of the publisher site a site authentication identifier is stored thereon. The site authentication identifier may include an authentication file metadata site scripts or other identifiers. Besides the publisher site the site authentication identifier may be stored on a file system or a cloud provider system. The authenticated publisher site is recognized by the monetization system as having been preliminarily cleared to monetize download instances. It is understood however that other conditions for monetization may also be imposed by the monetization system .

A broad general depiction of the method for resolving custodianship of the downloadable file that is stored on the custodial host site is illustrated in the flowchart of . According to one embodiment this method begins with a step of receiving a request for the downloadable file from the client device . Furthermore with reference to the flowcharts of additional details of a specific sequence of evaluating custodianship policy rules will be considered. Prior to receiving the request the client device may receive the webpage that contains the hyperlink to the downloadable file from the publisher site in accordance with a step . This may in turn be preceded by a request for the webpage .

When the user activates the hyperlink on the client device a software command such as the POST or GET command in the HTTP context is generated. This is understood to correspond to a step of the user initiating a hyperlink load triggering event to request the downloadable file . Any number of other load triggering events that could be substituted including activating an offsite link an on MouseDown event an on MouseUp event and an onClick event. Additionally the capture of a QR Quick Response code a SPARQCode or other like special barcodes that are designed to be photographed with on board cameras of smartphones and direct the user to a particular webpage or downloadable file as well as vocal vision tracking or body tracking commands for wearable Internet devices are also intended to be encompassed within the step .

The aforementioned request resulting from the load triggering event is understood to include the resource identifier e.g. http www.classbrain.com download.pdf that particularly identifies the domain absolute base URL path and file name of the downloadable file along with the referrer publisher identifier that specifies the origin from which this request was generated e.g. www.classbrain.com stategames.html. The request for the downloadable file is differentiated from a retrieval of another webpage based upon the file extension. For example the downloadable file has a .pdf extension while the webpage may have a .htm .asp .html .shtml .cfm or any other standard webpage extension. The request is transmitted to the custodial host site in accordance with a step .

The authentication status of the publisher site may be checked in a decision branch . If authenticated then the procedure continues to the step where the request is redirected to the monetization system and the publisher rules are implemented in step If the custodial site has not completed its validation process within the system or the publisher rules have not authorized the file extension type for monetization the script is stopped and no monetization is permitted in accordance with a step . The downloadable file is served to the client device normally per step .

Referring again to the flowchart of the method for resolving custodianship of the downloadable file continues with a step of evaluating the aforementioned request against one or more custodianship policy rules. As will be described in further detail below each of the custodianship policy rules may be defined by a custodianship parameter that is related to a part of at least one of the resource identifier e.g. the hyperlink and the referrer publisher identifier as well as a criterion value that corresponds to a positive evaluation of custodianship. The specific criterion values will be discussed in greater detail. The monetization system is understood to make these evaluations and the criteria therefor may be stored locally or remotely.

Several custodianship parameters of the custodianship policy rules are contemplated in accordance with the embodiments of the present disclosure. One is a file extension of the downloadable file as specified in the resource identifier while another is a format of the resource identifier. Additionally another may be a custodial domain on which the downloadable file is stored as specified in the resource identifier. Yet another is a referral domain as specified in the referrer publisher identifier. These custodianship policy rules may be stored on the custodial host site the monetization system or any other local or remote data storage system. Those having ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other custodianship parameters may be established.

In a step the monetization system may check the custodianship policy rules for valid file types which may be defined by the publisher. This is understood to include a listing of all file types extensions that are authorized for monetization and the file extension of the downloadable file as specified in the resource identifier is reviewed for inclusion in a decision step . If the specified extension is found then monetization may be permitted and the method proceeds to the next step. Otherwise control of the downloadable file is released back to the custodial host site in a step . Monetization is stopped per step and the downloadable file is served to the client device normally per step . The evaluation does not stop with determining whether the specified file extension is authorized for monetization and there is a step in which the publisher rules are checked for additional service parameters and restrictions. Then in a step these additional service parameters and restrictions are applied.

The next evaluation in a decision step is whether the resource identifier hyperlink is a relative link. As mentioned above if the hyperlink is a relative link the webpage including such hyperlink is presumed to have a custodial relationship to the downloadable file . Custodianship is thus resolved in a step and the downloadable file is served along with monetized content that may be presented within a modal overlay in accordance with a step as will be described in further detail below. Furthermore the custodial publisher may be credited with the monetization in a step .

Otherwise the analysis proceeds to the next evaluation in a step which involves a comparison of the absolute base URL of the referrer publisher identifier to those in the publisher domain database as being associated with a particular publisher that has custodianship over the downloadable file . In a decision step if the particular domain name is found in the publisher domain database custodianship is resolved in accordance with the step and the downloadable file along with the monetized content is served to the client device in a step . Again the custodial publisher may be credited with the monetization in a step .

If the domain is not listed in the publisher domain database the analysis continues with a comparison of the domain name as set forth in the resource identifier hyperlink and the referrer publisher identifier in the webpage according to step . If there is a match as evaluated in a decision step custodianship is resolved per step and proceeds to request the monetized content in the step . Otherwise the publisher site is deemed to not to have custodianship of the downloadable file according to a step and additional publisher rules are applied in a step . Generally this involves per decision step determining whether the downloadable file may be served regardless of the custodianship status. That is even if the referring publisher site is non custodial and or not affiliated whether the downloadable file should be transmitted to the user requesting the downloadable file therefrom. If the publisher s policy so dictates the downloadable file along with the monetized content is served to the client device in a step . Again the custodial publisher may be credited with the monetization in a step . However if not the file delivery may be blocked according to a step . Furthermore an optional system alert may be displayed which informs the user that the file is monetized and restricted and cannot be downloaded from a link from a non custodial publisher site to the custodial host site .

Once the status of a hyperlink is defined or identified as custodial or non custodial to the domain of the particular publisher site it is possible for the monetization system to record the same with a locally or remotely stored array.

Referring to the flowchart of the aforementioned evaluation steps can be summarized as a step of designating the request for the downloadable file as having the positive evaluation of custodianship. Again this designation can be made in response to parts of at least one of the resource identifier and the referrer publisher identifier matching criterion values for at least two particular ones of the custodianship policy rules.

The monetization system plays a role in resolving custodianship of the downloadable file particularly when there are multiple publisher sites under the dominion of a single publisher and the comparison of specified domain names in the resource identifier hyperlink and the referrer publisher identifier is insufficient. As indicated above it is possible to define the included publisher sites in the publisher domain database associated with the monetization system. In some embodiments the monetization system may be a subsystem of a content management platform of the publisher site or of the publisher site itself. One of the functions of the monetization system is the delivery of monetized content which as utilized herein refers to any content that can be served to the user to monetize assets. Such content may include advertisements sponsored searches images advertorials QR codes SPARQCodes affiliate links and so on.

Before the delivery of the monetized content to the users can commence with the monetization system an authentication procedure in which the aforementioned server file header code or the like is provided to the publisher site may be involved. Again this site authentication identifier may demonstrate that the publisher has administrative control over the files in the domain s in question and has been approved by the monetization system or a related third party application programming interface. Further publisher sites may be similarly identified for cross domain monetization of assets.

In one embodiment of the configuration authentication procedure the publisher may log in to the monetization system via a web based dashboard interface as shown in the screen capture of . The publisher can create a general profile in the monetization system . Basic information such as an account name and contact information street city state zip code and country as well as telephone and fax numbers may be provided in the profile . Additionally preferred localization settings such as language and currency may be specified.

After the basic account is set up the publisher sets up and authenticates the primary domain as well as any secondary domains. Continuing with the example shown in the primary domain of the publisher Classbrain may be www.classbrain.com and a secondary domain may be www.classbraingames.com. Still referring to the screen capture of the dashboard interface further includes a domain setup section . As shown a first field indicates the name of the publisher. The publisher is assigned an alphanumeric publisher identifier that may include the publisher s company or corporate name a primary validated domain name or any other sequence of characters as desired. The publisher identifier is indicated in a second field . Similarly a site identifier that may be based on the domain name of the publisher site along with any other sequence of alphanumeric characters as desired. The site identifier is indicated in a third field . A fourth field shows that the primary domain has been authenticated and a fifth field shows the URL of this particular publisher site that is the primary domain. A descriptor of the publisher site may be entered in a sixth field

One of the conditions for resolving custodianship and determining whether a particular downloadable file is to be monetized involves the file type or extension. That is only certain file types may be designated for monetization. The domain setup section accepts inputs for these designations and includes checkboxes therefor. To the extent any changes are to be committed after entering the desired values in the form fields an edit button user interface element may be selected.

After the file types for monetization have been selected via the checkboxes one embodiment of the present disclosure contemplates the scanning of content upload directories on the custodial host site to build a local lookup table of all eligible downloadable files . This table may be exported as an XML eXtensible Markup Language file or in any other suitable format. Further levels of control over monetization of the individual files identified and listed in the lookup table are also possible by way of exemptions and or additions and different rules tags and branding may be applied thereto. At this point the publisher may be requested to certify that all of the listed downloadable files are legally under the custodianship of the publisher.

After the foregoing selections are made the monetization system generates the domain authentication codes as a site file or page header codes in response to the user activating a generate code button user interface element . The authentication code may also be generated by a third party application programming interface. The publisher may then manually install the authentication code on the specific webpages that includes the hyperlinks to a downloadable file to be monetized. The monetization system authenticates the publisher site as a custodial site and for monetization and is activated.

To the extent there are any publisher sites that have been added but not validated the dashboard interface is understood to indicate as such. Furthermore the downloadable files that have been identified may not be eligible for monetization regardless of whether the policy rules have been set for the publisher site if it has not been validated. Another embodiment of the dashboard interface is shown in which depicts multiple rows of listings and sublistings of fields and corresponding values. This representation may provide a user friendly view of all of the publisher sites being monetized.

Further secondary sites may be added to the publisher account in a similar manner by activating a add new site button user interface element which invokes a different domain setup section as shown in . If the secondary domain exists within the profile a menu user interface element may be used to select between such separate domain setup sections . The secondary domains are likewise associated with the publisher for purposes of resolving custodianship to specific downloadable files in the manner considered above as well as for cross monetization. A similar configuration authentication authentication code installation and validation procedure for the primary domain is also applicable for configuring the secondary domains.

With reference to the block diagram of in addition to the foregoing functions the monetization system cooperates with a monetized content provider to serve relevant monetized content in conjunction with the downloadable file . Along the lines of the monetized content referring to any content that can be served to the user to monetize the assets of the publisher the monetized content provider is understood to be expansive and can include any agency affiliate search engine or other supplier of the monetized content. A wide variety of monetized content can be presented though various embodiments of the present disclosure contemplate a more targeted customized approach in which one or more characteristics of the downloadable file are matched to known presentation characteristics of the monetized content. To this end additional attributes of the publisher system and of the publisher may be defined via the dashboard interface including tags related to the interest graph of each website or downloadable file requested monetization partners branding white listed blacklisted partner sites age appropriateness and others.

Having described the methods for resolving custodianship and the configuration of the monetization system further details pertaining to the process by which the request for the downloadable file eventually transforms to the publisher s monetization thereof will be considered. The block diagram of illustrates an exemplary operating environment where the user interacts with various publisher sites to access downloadable assets also referenced herein as the downloadable files . The present disclosure contemplates different types of publisher entities three of which are depicted. The first publisher site is a conventional for profit publisher that presents a first monetized content to the user with that impression or other monetization being recorded to credit the publisher.

The monetization system is in communication with various sources monetized content providers from which the particular monetized content to be presented to the user for the download instance can be retrieved. These include a conventional advertisement server various online advertising exchanges a supply side platform where the publishers manage advertising inventory and impressions and affiliate networks that work with affiliate merchants . Furthermore advertisers may interface with a demand side platform to work with multiple advertisement exchanges. The variety of sources of the monetized content is understood to provide a greater pool from which a best match can be made to the particular download instance. In most cases a best match is that which most closely matches the rules for monetized content set by the publisher with the highest value. It is understood that different advertisers can bid for the most desirous placements and the monetization system may be the central management point for the selecting and receiving the monetized content . As shown in the block diagram of the selection of the best match bid may be performed by a bitch analysis system which utilizes a series of analytics .

Similar to the first publisher site the second publisher site which may be associated with a non profit publisher presents a second monetized content to the user after which the proceeds are provided as donations. This example would normally exclude affiliate merchant systems. The second monetized content may have a different presentation that refers to the supplier of the monetized content and subsequent donation as a sponsor instead.

A hybrid arrangement where the user is given the option to pay for the downloadable asset instead is also contemplated. In further detail there is a third publisher site which may license sell or otherwise exchange downloadable files such as movies songs music videos e books and the like for payment. In the same way the other publisher sites retrieved the best matched monetized content respectively the third publisher site likewise retrieves the best matched monetized content and presents the same to the user if the interaction with an advertisement or other monetized content is selected by the user and any necessary action completed such as watching a complete video advertisement then user will gain access to the publisher s downloadable asset for free or in some cases for a reduced price

If not the user is directed to a paywall at which point a payment can be made or otherwise be granted access to the downloadable asset by supplying appropriate credentials.

Further details of the monetizing the downloadable file will now be considered. With reference to the flowchart of the procedure begins with a step in which the user is viewing the webpage . As indicated above the referring webpage includes the hyperlink to the downloadable file and in a step the user activates such hyperlink . This request is transmitted to the custodial host site per step . The flowchart of depicts a method for monetization of the downloadable file relative to the monetization system and similarly begins with a step of receiving this request for the downloadable file . Along these lines the flowchart of depicts a method for presenting monetized content for the downloadable file. The corollary to the step of the user viewing the webpage is a step of rendering the referral webpage from the publisher site the corollary to the step is a step of receiving the load triggering event and the corollary to step is a step of transmitting the request for the downloadable file to the custodial host site .

According to some embodiments of the present disclosure the transfer of the downloadable file begins as a response to the request. Concurrently further determinations may be made by the monetization system in order to determine whether the download instance can be monetized or not. In this regard after sending the user request it may be redirected to the monetization system according to a step . Prior to this however in a decision block the validation status of the site is confirmed and only upon an affirmative finding does the redirection occur. Otherwise the user request is again transmitted to the custodial web server in accordance with the step .

In a step the monetization system checks for a monetization status e.g. whether the file type is one that can be monetized and whether the referrer publisher identifier has custodianship over the downloadable file. This determination may be made in a generalized decision step . Referring to the flowchart of such decision step may encompass a step of setting a file type authorization for the request based upon an evaluation of a file extension of the downloadable file included in an array of authorized file types. Furthermore the decision step may also encompass a step of setting a publisher custodianship for the request based at least in part upon an evaluation of the resource identifier in the request. These two determinations have been extensively discussed above in relation to the contemplated method of resolving custodianship. If it is determined that the requested downloadable file is not to be monetized as established in a step then the download to the client device is initiated per step in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. Alternatively however it is also possible to reject the download request as not being authorized.

On the other hand if the requested downloadable file is authorized for monetization then additional custodial publisher rules are applied in a step . Referring to the flowchart of according to a step instructions to display a modal overlay on the client device during the download process is transmitted to the client device . In further detail shown in the flowchart of this may include a step of the monetization system requesting various content partners for the monetized content to match the file type and the publisher rules. As indicated above this request may return multiple possible instances of monetized content and the monetization system is understood to match those to the particulars of the requested downloadable file in accordance with a step . Thereafter the selected monetized content is assembled in a step and served in a step .

Referring to the flowchart of this corresponds to a step of directing the transmission of the monetized content to the client device together with the aforementioned step of transmitting modal overlay display instructions. These two steps may take place substantially concurrently that is around the same time. The flowcharts of further illustrate the various additional steps that are contemplated on the client device side. The side showing the steps beginning with label B1 involves the file download process while the side showing the steps beginning with label B2 involves the modal overlay presentation process. Beginning with B1 a step is where the file download has been authorized and begun by the monetization system which may correspond to a step of initiating the transfer instance of the downloadable file as depicted in the flowchart of .

Contemporaneously with the initiation of the data transfer starting with B2 a modal overlay is displayed on the client device in accordance with a step . Referring to the flowchart of this may correspond to a step of rendering the modal overlay . The modal overlay remains activated until one of several possible events occurs. One exemplary implementation of a modal overlay is illustrated in shown within a graphical interface against a darkened background . The portion of the graphical interface that is darkened is understood to be the referrer webpage and contrasts with an un darkened or full brightness modal overlay . The modal overlay is understood to be an interactive delivery system for the aforementioned monetized content.

In some circumstances rather than starting the display of the modal overlay concurrently with the start of downloading in order to make the impression of the monetized content more meaningful a slight delay may be introduced. The speed at which the download proceeds is primarily a function of the size of the downloadable file though the network connection speed also plays a role. The evaluation of the file size and the introduction of the aforementioned delay may be undertaken by the custodial host site . At the outset of the file transfer the custodial host side may also evaluate the specifics of the client device the location from which the request for the downloadable file originated and other rule based parameters to determine if the downloadable file is to be served directly to the client device or through the monetization system with a virtual viewer.

Unlike existing advertisement presentation modalities such as banner advertisements pop ups superstitials and interstitials the contemplated modal overlay of the present disclosure is delivered concurrently with the transfer of the downloadable file . It will be appreciated that the user s navigation of the Web is not impeded and indeed augmented as it is possible to navigate from webpage to webpage. While the user is waiting for the downloadable file to complete its data transfer various monetized content can be presented within that time period and in the modal overlay . As will be described in further detail below the download progress may be tracked and presented within the modal overlay and hence becomes a tool to enhance user experience. It is expressly contemplated that the modal overlay is not limited to displaying advertisements in the conventional sense and may be utilized to present a wide variety of monetized content as noted herein.

Although the modal overlay may be presented in numerous ways there are a few common elements. In particular there may be a close icon that can be activated by the user positioned on the upper right hand corner of the modal overlay along the lines of a conventional windowing application interface. Additionally as indicated above tracking the progress of the data transfer is common amongst the various embodiments so each is understood to include a download progress bar . As will be described in further detail below the size positioning and orientation of the download progress bar as well as its proffered design and animation characteristics for graphically representing the progress of the download may be modified according to preference. Along these lines another common feature is the presentation of the monetized content and thus in each implementation of the modal overlay there is a dedicated monetized content section . The positioning and size of the monetized content section may be varied though to present the monetized content most effectively some degree of prominence is envisioned.

Continuing with the data transfer procedure that began with B1 the underlying information for the download progress bar originates from a step of calculating the transfer progress time. According to one embodiment a file manager running on the client device may be called to make this calculation an alternate method may be communicating. The resultant value is passed to the modal overlay and as set forth in a step the approximate time to completion is shown in the rendering of the download progress bar . Referring to the flowchart of these two steps may generally correspond to a step of updating the download progress indicator. The progress may also be indicated in terms of percentage completed time remaining and other such units that are known in the art. Since the progress of the transfer of the downloadable file to the client device is being regularly monitored when it is completed in a step this is likewise presented in the modal overlay in a step . In at least one embodiment notification of the file download completion may manifest as a presentation to the user of a View Now button or link or one of similar meaning that allows the user to launch the file into a viewer or locate the file and possibly activate the file on their device as described in more detail below.

As indicated above prior to commencing the data transfer optionally the custodial host site may determine whether or not the downloadable file is viewable on the destination client device . If it has been deemed a viewable file in a step then in a step the downloadable file is opened in the client device . If the file is such that it cannot be opened within the browser the modal overlay may include a link to the local file system on which the downloaded file was saved that can be activated to invoke the particular application therefor. Alternatively invoking the external software application may be automated along with the closing of the modal overlay . Per step the user may be presented with an option to save the content of the modal overlay. to a new tab or window and upon so selecting this is accomplished in a step . This optional step may or may not be implemented for particular configurations of the modal overlay .

The modal overlay stays visible to the user until its closing is authorized in a step . This authorization may come from the user in accordance with a step which takes action to terminate the modal overlay . For example the close icon may be activated. Alternatively the authorization to close the modal overlay may come from the monetization system . This may be the case when the download has been completed. Once the authorization is received to close the modal overlay the user is returned without any further intervention to the underlying referrer webpage in accordance with a step . Referring to the flowchart of this step is understood to have a corollary step of closing the modal overlay . To the extent that the modal overlay was launched from an alternative platform other than the web the user is returned thereto. At any time the modal overlay is closed while the download is still ongoing it is understood that such data transfer can also be stopped. This behavior however can be adjusted depending on the desires of the publisher.

An embodiment in which the user is given a choice between viewing the monetized content and paying for the downloadable file was briefly described above with reference to the block diagram of . Now with reference to the flowchart of as well as an example implementation of the modal overlay shown in additional details of this hybrid monetization will be considered. By default the modal overlay is already being rendered in accordance with the foregoing procedures as discussed earlier. Thus when the user interaction comes to a decision block at the very least the modal overlay with the monetized content is presented. The download may also be proceeding but may be delayed to accept a choice from the user . At this point the user may select to pay a fee to gain access to the downloadable file . With particular reference to this may be in the form of a skip button that when selected prompts the user for payment but otherwise continues the presentation of the monetized content until complete. However to the extent playback is interrupted as shown in a step the download is stopped in accordance with a step . So long as playback continues and concludes without intervention per step the downloadable file is released to download to the user s device in a step and when complete the modal overlay disappears in a step .

When the pay option is selected the interaction proceeds to another decision block . Even though the user indicates that he she will pay by activating the skip button when it comes to actually doing so that may not be the case. As such this checking step may be useful. If the user does not actually pay the download is stopped in a step after which the modal overlay disappears in a step . Upon confirming that a payment will be tendered the user may be redirected to a third party payment processor in a step . There is a possibility that the payment attempt fails at this stage for a variety of reasons so yet another evaluation takes place in a decision block . If payment has failed the download is stopped in the step and the modal overlay . If it has not failed the modal overlay disappears in a separate step and completed the download in a step .

While a few of the common elements of the modal overlay were considered above there are several variations that have been configured to meet particular needs. Returning to the example shown in a more basic implementation is shown. However within the monetization content section there is additionally an optional newsfeed social media or interactive widget area section along with a publisher branding section . Furthermore there is an open to tab button located on the lower right hand corner of the modal overlay by which the monetized content or the additional content can be loaded into a secondary tab.

The examples shown in feature a vertical download progress bar which is positioned thus in order to lead the eyes of the user across the monetized content in the same way that a speed reader uses the hand or other tracking device to led the eyes across the page. The download progress bar can be positioned on the left side as shown in or on the right side as shown in to accommodate left to right reading languages and right to left reading languages respectively. This variation also includes the open to tab button though this can be substituted with any other button that activates various functions both within and outside of the modal overlay . Furthermore instead of the publisher branding as in the variation shown in it is also possible to include branding for the advertiser as shown in a branding section .

Considering that the modal window and the download progress bar positioned therein is being updated as the download progresses changing other content displayed within is easily achieved. Depending on the length of a particular download one or more sets of monetizable content may be shown sequentially within the modal overlay. In this regard there may also be a separate presentation once the download is complete such as a download completion graphic and so forth. Based on the foregoing disclosure those having ordinary skill in the art will recognize the numerous possibilities for designing the modal overlay

The particulars shown herein are by way of example only for purposes of illustrative discussion and are presented in the cause of providing what is believed to be the most useful and readily understood description of the principles and conceptual aspects of the various embodiments set forth in the present disclosure. In this regard no attempt is made to show any more detail than is necessary for a fundamental understanding of the different features of the various embodiments the description taken with the drawings making apparent to those skilled in the art how these may be implemented in practice.

