---

title: Estimating available cell capacity based on monitored network data
abstract: In one embodiment, a method comprises monitoring network data associated with a cell of a communication network for one or more channel conditions, estimating total cell capacities for respective channel conditions based on the monitored network data, and estimating an available cell capacity based at least in part on the total cell capacity estimates and a portion of the monitored network data. The method may also include sending information derived from at least a portion of the network data to a server and receiving from the server total cell capacities for respective channel conditions, where the total cell capacities received from the server are used to estimate the available cell capacity. The method may further include sending the available cell capacity estimate to the server and receiving from the server an available cell capacity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09307428&OS=09307428&RS=09307428
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 09307428
owner_city: Boulogne-Billancourt
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20140107
---
The field relates generally to communication networks and more particularly to techniques for transmitting information in such networks.

In communication networks load can vary significantly over time and channel conditions. This is particularly true in mobile cellular networks such as fourth generation Long Term Evolution LTE cellular networks which are designed for handling consumer communication applications such as voice video streaming video conferencing web browsing and file transfers. LTE networks and other conventional wireless networks such as IEEE 802.11n networks have mechanisms such as rate adaptation and scheduling for dynamically allocating resources to serve multiple users. In typical mobile cell sites however a significant portion of traffic is carried during peak times which include only a few hours of the day. As a result almost 80 of cell capacity is unused for an average mobile cell site.

Illustrative embodiments of the present invention provide for better utilization of network resources for traffic in mobile data networks with varying channel conditions. Similar advantages are provided in numerous other networks that are subject to varying channel conditions.

In one embodiment a method comprises monitoring network data associated with a cell of a communication network for one or more channel conditions estimating total cell capacities for respective channel conditions based on the monitored network data and estimating an available cell capacity based at least in part on the total cell capacity estimates and a portion of the monitored network data. The method is performed by at least one processing device comprising a processor coupled to a memory.

In another embodiment a method comprises receiving information derived from network data associated with a cell of a communication network for one or more channel conditions from one or more of a plurality of clients connected to the cell determining a total cell capacity for respective channel conditions based at least in part on the received information sending the total cell capacities for respective channel conditions to the plurality of clients receiving available cell capacity estimates from one or more of the plurality of clients connected to the cell determining an available cell capacity based at least in part on the received available cell capacity estimates and sending the available cell capacity to the plurality of clients. The method is performed by at least one processing device comprising a processor coupled to a memory.

Illustrative embodiments of the invention will be described herein with reference to exemplary communication networks clients servers and associated communication modes and channels. It should be understood however that the invention is not limited to use with the particular arrangements described but is instead more generally applicable to any communication network application in which it is desirable to provide improved performance under varying channel conditions.

As described above the load for communication networks such as mobile or cellular networks can vary significantly over time and channel conditions. Thus there is a growing need for scalable monitoring systems capable of real time congestion detection in large mobile networks as well as rapid dissemination of changes in network state to a large number of clients.

Also as described above most of the traffic for a typical mobile cell site is carried during only a few hours of the day resulting in almost 80 of cell capacity being unused on average. Thus potentially 5 times capacity gains are possible without adding extra capacity by tapping into this surplus or unused capacity. Identifying and leveraging the surplus or unused capacity however is challenging due to the highly dynamic and unpredictable nature of data traffic resulting in fast and dynamic changes in network load.

Historically voice has dominated data traffic in mobile networks. For voice the busy hours are quite predictable e.g. voice traffic is observed to happen mainly in the morning or evening rush hours. With the rise of smartphones and faster mobile networks however data traffic is beginning to dwarf voice traffic. Unlike voice traffic data traffic can be bursty particularly at the radio access network RAN side of a mobile network. As a result even during times of peak usage there is a high variation in cell loading that happens at the granularity of minutes. Thus there are often times even during busy hours when a cell is lightly loaded and there is surplus capacity. Considerable efficiencies can be achieved by making use of such surplus capacity available throughout the day.

Embodiments of the invention provide techniques for dynamically and rapidly detecting changes in network load in real time. Embodiments identify surplus or available capacity or detect congestion and rapidly make this information available to a large number of clients without adding significant signaling and data overhead to the network. Embodiments as will be described in further detail below can offer discounts to users or trigger content download or updates when surplus capacity becomes available.

Conventional techniques for congestion detection are not very well suited for the dynamic and unpredictable nature of data traffic. For example the use of statically determined peak and off peak times is used to reduce network congestion. Data traffic however not only varies from time to time but also varies from location to location. For instance different cells within the same network can exhibit very different network usage patterns. Even for a single cell data usage patterns do not remain static over time. Instead data usage patterns continually evolve as more and more data users begin to use an increased variety of mobile devices and applications. Dynamic congestion detection and rapid response to changes in network load are important functions that are missing from or not adequately addressed by conventional techniques.

The term cell as used herein refers to a particular coverage area of a network. A cell may refer to a particular geographic area. In some embodiments a cell is the geographic area covered by a base station BTS in a cellular or mobile network. In the context of a wireless network such as an 802.11 wireless network the cell is the geographic area covered by a particular router or access point for the network. Various other examples are possible for other types of mobile and wireless networks.

Conventional network monitoring systems also typically make an assumption that the available capacity can be determined as the difference of the capacity of a bottlenecked link to the offered load. However in mobile networks this is not always the case as the capacity of a radio link is very much dependent on the channel quality of users and hence can be time varying. Thus even if an observed load for a particular cell is low the cell may still not have any or sufficient available capacity due to available network resources being assigned to users with poor channel quality.

Therefore monitoring solutions should measure cell load in conjunction with the channel quality for users. On the network side such monitoring is done from the BTS where both the user s channel quality and the allocated BTS resource usage can be monitored. While this can result in more accurate monitoring it can be challenging to deploy for a number of reasons. For example there is a significant cost and challenge associated with upgrading BTSs with many different proprietary interfaces. As another example BTS side monitoring increases cell or backhaul overhead in sending monitored data from BTSs to central policy control and enforcement engines. Such increased backhaul overhead also results in high delays in informing clients of changes in network load thus slowing reaction time. In addition rapidly distributing information to a large number of clients so that the clients can quickly react to changes in network load also involves high overhead.

On the client side mobile devices themselves perform monitoring and policy enforcement locally. A combination of active and passive probing techniques can be used for monitoring local conditions such as the user s channel quality as well as estimating the global network state including cell congestion. Network availability can be estimated by passively monitoring the radio channel slot occupancy. This can be challenging however as it requires access to proprietary vendor specific application programming interfaces APIs for the radio modem of the device.

Another client side approach is to use active probing. Active probing involves sending probe packets to estimate the available bandwidth. Active probing techniques have the advantage of being mostly independent of the device firmware hardware operating system etc. Active probing however requires additional signaling and data overhead. Embodiments of the invention can overcome these and other drawbacks as will be detailed below.

It is important to note that while shows an embodiment including a server and multiple clients embodiments of the invention are not limited solely to this arrangement. As will be described in further detail below in some embodiments a given client estimates the available cell capacity without receiving total cell capacities or other information from the server . For example a given client can use monitored network data to estimate total cell capacities for respective channel conditions and use such estimates for estimating the available cell capacity.

Server comprises a server network capacity determination module processor memory and network interface . The term server should be understood to encompass any type of processing device or set of such devices that is operative to perform functionality described herein with respect to server . A server may be implemented as a portion of a device that performs other functions as a combination of multiple servers or other devices or in other forms.

The client comprises a client network capacity determination module processor memory and network interface . Although not explicitly shown in clients . . . N similarly comprise respective client network capacity determination modules processors memories and network interfaces. The clients in are examples of processing devices. Such processing devices include user interface devices such as cellular phones tablets laptops smart watches and various other mobile computing devices. Processing devices can also include desktop computing devices and lightweight computing devices such as radio frequency identification RFID tags 

The server network capacity determination module and the client network capacity determination module comprise functional modules which are implemented via hardware software or a combination of hardware and software to provide functionality to be described below.

The processors and of server and client respectively may each be implemented utilizing a microprocessor a microcontroller an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other type of processing circuitry as well as portions or combinations of such processing circuitry. A given such processor may include one or more embedded memories as internal memories.

The processor or and any associated internal or external memory may be used in storage and execution of one or more software programs for controlling the operation of the corresponding server or client . Accordingly the server network capacity determination module the client network capacity determination module or portions of these modules may be implemented at least in part using such software programs.

Each of the memories and of the respective server and client is assumed to include one or more storage areas that may be utilized for program code storage. The memory or may therefore be viewed as an example of what is more generally referred to herein as a computer program product or still more generally as a computer readable storage medium that has executable program code embodied therein. Other examples of computer readable storage media may include disks or other types of magnetic or optical media in any combination. Articles of manufacture comprising such computer program products or other computer readable storage media are considered embodiments of the invention. The term article of manufacture as used herein should be understood to exclude transitory propagating signals.

The memory or may more particularly comprise for example an electronic random access memory RAM such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM or other types of volatile or non volatile electronic memory. The latter may include for example non volatile memories such as flash memory magnetic RAM MRAM phase change RAM PC RAM or ferroelectric RAM FRAM . The term memory as used herein is intended to be broadly construed and may additionally or alternatively encompass for example a read only memory ROM a disk based memory or other type of storage device as well as portions or combinations of such devices.

The server and client also include respective network interfaces and which allow the server and client to communicate with one another via network . The network interfaces and comprise transceiver circuitry which will generally include conventional transceivers as well as other related circuitry used to support communication over the network .

The network may comprise for example a cellular or other mobile or wireless network. The term network as used herein however is intended to be broadly construed and may include global computer networks such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a satellite network a telephone or cable network a cellular network a wireless network such as Wi Fi or WiMAX or various portions or combinations of these and other types of networks.

It is to be appreciated that the particular arrangement of components shown in is exemplary only and numerous alternative configurations may be used in other embodiments. For example the server or client can be configured to incorporate additional or alternative components and to support other communication protocols.

Also embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in one or more ASICS FPGAs or other types of integrated circuit devices in any combination. Such integrated circuit devices as well as portions or combinations thereof are examples of circuitry as that term is used herein.

A wide variety of other arrangements of hardware and associated software or firmware may be used in implementing embodiments of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention provide techniques for efficiently detecting and distributing network congestion information. Clients such as the clients in system can utilize active or passive probing mechanisms to allow the client to sample the available bandwidth. The available bandwidth is determined based on a number of different parameters. For example a client can measure download throughput for determining available bandwidth.

The throughput parameter by itself however may not always be enough or sufficient for obtaining an accurate estimate of available cell capacity. This is because in wireless networks such as cellular networks the throughput depends not only on the available capacity or wireless technology of the cell but also on the channel quality for a particular client. Even with only one client connected to a cell the download throughput may be low if the client has poor channel quality. Thus the client s estimation of available cell capacity based solely on observed download throughput may not be accurate.

As such embodiments also monitor parameters indicative of a total cell capacity. The term total cell capacity as used herein does not necessarily mean the absolute maximum capacity for a given cell. Instead the term total cell capacity is intended to refer to a measure which is indicative of but not necessarily equal to the maximum throughput for respective channel conditions for a given cell. In some embodiments the total cell capacity measure is based on a confidence level e.g. 90 or 95 of observed parameters indicative of the maximum possible throughput. For example a total cell capacity measure can exclude certain outliers in monitored data which correspond to temporary bursts of cell capacity that are not truly indicative of the maximum possible throughput for the given cell. In other embodiments the total cell capacity is alternatively or additionally based on statistical analysis of monitored parameters and includes a given value as well as a standard deviation. The total cell capacity for a given channel quality or channel condition varies from cell to cell based on the RAN technology of the cell frequency number of carriers etc.

Embodiments below distinguish between estimates of total cell capacities and the total cell capacities as well as between estimates of the available cell capacity and the available cell capacity solely for clarity of illustration. In the embodiments described below an estimate is used to refer to the calculation computation or determination of total cell capacity or available cell capacity by a client. Calculations computations or determinations by a server are distinguished therefrom and referred to simply as total cell capacities or the available cell capacity. This does not mean however that the calculation computation or determination by a server is necessarily the actual total cell capacity for a given channel condition or the actual available cell capacity. Instead the total cell capacities and available cell capacities calculated computed or otherwise determined by the server are also estimates. Generally the estimates of the server will be more accurate than the estimates of any particular client selected at random since as will be detailed below the server has access to estimates from a number of clients.

Clients as discussed above use download throughput as one parameter for determining an estimate of the available cell capacity. Download throughput however depends on the number of clients or other users connected to the cell as well as the level of sharing in the cell. BTSs such as an Evolved Node B eNodeB in an evolved Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access E UTRA LTE network use proportionally fair scheduling to divide radio resources fairly and evenly between active users attached to a cell.

In some embodiments of the invention clients estimate available capacity for a cell as follows. First clients monitor network data associated with the cell. The network data includes historic data about channel conditions as measured by parameters such as the Signal to Noise Ratio SNR Received Signal Strength Indication RSSI with observed throughput etc. Clients use the monitored network data to determine an estimate of the total cell capacity for particular channel conditions. In some embodiments this involves a client such as client sending information derived from at least a portion of the monitored network data to the server and receiving from the server the total cell capacities for respective channel conditions. In other embodiments the client need not send data to or receive total cell capacities from the server .

In addition to monitoring network data the clients also monitor data transfers to determine throughput. Clients locally track the observed throughput for different channel conditions within each cell that they connect to. Updates on the observed throughput per channel quality are sent to the server along with the monitored network data or some information derived from the network data and observed throughput to reduce overhead for transmissions between the clients and server .

The server aggregates network data or information derived therefrom which is received from various ones of the clients so as to determine the total cell capacities. The monitored network data and other measurements by individual clients can be aggregated by the server to obtain a more complete view of channel conditions in the cell and thus more accurate estimations of the total cell capacities. The server makes the total cell capacities for various channel conditions available to the clients . A client which connects to a new cell communicates with the server so as to obtain the current total cell capacities for one or more channel conditions.

To estimate available cell capacity the clients measure download throughput and channel conditions over a sequence of time windows in real time. The total cell capacity for a given channel condition in a given time window is based on the number of active cell users during the time window. For example under proportional scheduling used in cellular networks the user s throughput for a given time window is the total cell capacity for the current channel condition divided by the number of active users during the given time window. The time windows are designed to be short enough such that within each time window there is either no data transfer from any other user of the cell or the cell capacity is fully utilized from such data transfers. In some embodiments the time windows vary in length between one and ten seconds. The length of the time windows can be determined by usage patterns for the cell historical data etc. Trial and error may be used to select a time window length which achieves a desired tradeoff between computational resources consumed and accuracy.

In some embodiments a client calculates the available cell capacity as follows. For a sequence of time windows t t . . . t let the observed throughput by a client be B B . . . B. For each of the time windows t t . . . t let the total cell capacity for the current channel condition be C C . . . C. In embodiments where the client does not communicate with a server C C . . . Cwould represent the total cell capacities estimated at the client. The average available cell capacity over the time period spanning these k time windows is estimated as

In some embodiments the available cell capacity estimate of the client is compared to a cell specific available capacity threshold . The available cell capacity is determined to be available only if the available cell capacity estimate is greater than or equal to the cell specific available capacity threshold .

Probing mechanisms used in embodiments of the invention include active and or passive probing techniques. Active probing techniques involve a user occasionally downloading data from the network. Probing mechanisms used in embodiments of the invention however need not operate independent of user data transfers. Passive probing techniques use existing user data transfers for determining total cell capacity and available cell capacity estimates. In some embodiments existing data transfers are utilized as an alternative to or supplement to active probing for determining throughput in various time windows in the manner described above. The client can act as a proxy for user applications running on a processing device to monitor the capacity availability as user applications transfer data in the network. Thus probing in some embodiments does not require any additional data transfers so long as there is data activity from user applications running on a client processing device such that passive probing may be performed. This helps to mitigate the additional overhead involved in active probing techniques.

In some situations a user is not currently engaged in data activity e.g. there are no user applications running on the processing device which are currently transferring data in the network. In these situations a background user application monitors congestion information in order to resume a content download at an appropriate time. As described above network congestion estimates such as the available cell capacity estimates are utilized to schedule background data tasks such as application updates data synching system updates etc. The background application may run on a client processing device so as to schedule such data transfer tasks when the cell capacity is underutilized.

To minimize the impact of active probing to monitor network congestion clients in some embodiments perform active probing in accordance with a schedule. The schedule appropriately spaces out active probing activities for a given client while still ensuring that capacity availability can be detected in a timely fashion. In some embodiments the server determines and distributes a schedule for active probing to the clients . The schedule is designed to ensure that only a small number of the clients perform active probing at any given time.

In some embodiments the server dynamically selects a small set of the clients within each cell for active probing. For example server may schedule only a few e.g. 2 3 or some percentage e.g. less than 5 of clients connected to the cell to perform active probing at a given time. It is important to note that the specific number of clients scheduled for active probing may be altered or selected based on a given network arrangement. In some embodiments more than 2 3 clients are scheduled for active probing at a given time or only a single client is scheduled for active probing at a given time. Similarly the specific percentage of clients scheduled for active proving at a given time may be adjusted. Thus the specific numbers provided above are presented by way of example only.

Scheduling the small set of clients within each cell for active probing ensures low signaling and data overhead resulting from active probing. As the small set of clients track changes in cell congestion they report such changes to the server . The server in turn notifies other clients in the cell who need updates on changes in cell congestion but are not themselves monitoring congestion. Different subsets of the clients connected to each cell are selected for active probing during different time periods to keep the probing load spread across the clients to minimize battery drain from active probing or to free up processing and memory resources used for active probing.

In clients and are actively probing the network cell and reporting estimates of the available capacity for network cell to the server . The server as discussed above may dynamically select and schedule the particular ones of the clients which are actively probing the network cell at a given time. Client is not actively probing the network cell . Instead the client receives the available capacity for network cell from the server .

In step the server provides total cell capacities for respective channel conditions and the available cell capacity to clients and . Although described above as occurring in a sequential manner the steps need not be performed in the order shown in . Instead various steps may be performed substantially simultaneously or in a different order altogether. For example clients and may perform steps and concurrently. Similarly steps and may be performed concurrently.

As another example step may occur before steps and or in some cases before all of steps . The server may provide total cell capacities and available cell capacities to clients and before clients and begin the active probing process. The total cell capacities and available cell capacities may be based on active probing by clients not shown in e.g. some subset of the N clients connected to network cell may have been selected for active probing at a time period before clients and were selected .

In some embodiments the server provides the total cell capacities and available cell capacities to the clients and at different times rather than in a single step as shown in . For example the server provides total cell capacities to the clients after receiving total cell capacity estimates from respective ones of the clients or after the server has received a sufficient number of total cell capacity estimates from various ones of the clients so as to calculate the total cell capacity with a particular confidence level. Similarly the server may provide the available cell capacity to the clients after it has received a sufficient number of available cell capacity estimates such that the server is able to calculate the available cell capacity with a particular confidence level.

In addition while shows the server transmitting the total cell capacities and available cell capacities to the clients and at the same time embodiments are not limited solely to this arrangement. In some embodiments communication of the total cell capacities and the available cell capacity to a number of the clients is done at the same time to reduce signaling and overhead. In other embodiments unicast or point to point transmission of such information is used.

For example the server may schedule broadcast or multicast messages of total cell capacities and available cell capacities at defined intervals. The defined time intervals may be periodic e.g. every x minutes or based on other criteria. To reduce signaling and overhead the server in some embodiments broadcasts a communication with total cell capacities and available cell capacities when such capacities have changed by a particular amount. For example the server may not send out a new broadcast message until the capacities have changed by 5 10 or some other threshold chosen for a particular embodiment.

In other embodiments the server broadcasts a communication with updated total cell capacities and or available cell capacities when the particular set of clients connected to a given network cell has changed by certain amount. For example if 10 of the clients connected to the network cell are different than the clients connected to the network cell during the previous broadcast message a new broadcast message may be sent. As will be appreciated the particular numbers and thresholds are presented above by way of example. These thresholds are altered in other embodiments based on the particular system configuration as well as current network congestion levels. For instance during periods of high network congestion the server may send less frequent updates of total cell capacities and the available cell capacity to reduce overhead.

In other embodiments the server sends a point to point or unicast message to a particular one of the clients with total cell capacity or available cell capacity information. For example if one of the clients has just connected to the network cell then the server may send a message to that client with the total cell capacities and available cell capacity. As another example the server may send a point to point or unicast message to a given one of the clients in response to an explicit request from the given client.

It is also important to note that in some embodiments the server need not necessarily provide an available cell capacity to the clients . Instead each client may simply use its own available cell capacity estimate. In some embodiments a client determines whether to use its own estimate of the available cell capacity in place of the available cell capacity provided by the server . While the available cell capacity calculated by the server may be more accurate than the estimate of any given one of the clients since the server is able to aggregate estimates from the various clients the available cell capacity calculated by the server may not be as fresh or current as the available cell capacity estimate computed by a given client. Thus in some embodiments clients compare a time at which the available cell capacity was received from the server with the time at which the client estimated the available cell capacity. Based on the currency of the available cell capacity from the server a client determines whether to use its own estimate or the available cell capacity received from the server . By way of example a given client may use the length of time windows as discussed above to determine the currency of the available cell capacity received from the server .

In step the client receives from the server total cell capacities for respective channel conditions. The total cell capacity for a first channel condition may be different than the total cell capacity for a second channel condition. For example the particular location of a device within a cell may affect the total cell capacity. In step the client estimates an available cell capacity based at least in part on the total cell capacities and a portion of the monitored network data. As discussed above the available cell capacity may be estimated by comparing the observed throughput for one or more time windows with the respective total cell capacities for channel conditions associated with those time windows.

The client sends the available cell capacity estimate to the server and receives from the server the available cell capacity computed by the server . In some embodiments the server aggregates available cell capacity estimates from a number of clients and calculates the available cell capacity based on these estimates. The server can calculate the available cell capacity using a number of techniques including statistical techniques such as calculating the average or median of the received estimates.

In addition clients do not have to continuously transmit network data to the server. Instead clients may calculate estimates of total cell capacities and send such estimates to the server periodically or in batches to reduce signaling and overhead. For example a client may wait until a certain portion of the estimates have changed in order to send information to the server . Alternatively a client may send network data and or estimates of total cell capacity on a schedule e.g. once a day once a week etc. Total cell capacity may not change as often or as drastically as available cell capacity and thus to reduce signaling and overhead the estimates of total cell capacity may be sent to a server less frequently than estimates of the available cell capacity.

In step the server determines a total cell capacity for respective channel conditions based at least in part on the information received in step . As detailed above the total cell capacity for a first channel condition may be different than the total cell capacity for a second channel condition. The server sends the total cell capacities for the respective channel conditions to the plurality of clients. In some embodiments the server does not send the total cell capacities to every one of the plurality of clients connected to a cell. For example not every client or processing device that is connected to a cell is part of the network congestion monitoring system. The plurality of clients may include only those clients which have subscribed to the network congestion monitoring system provided by the server .

The server receives available cell capacity estimates from one or more of the plurality of clients connected to the cell. The server may schedule different subsets of the plurality of clients to actively probe the cell of the network at a given time. Thus the server will generally receive available cell capacity estimates from only a few of the plurality of clients connected to a cell. Embodiments however are not limited solely to this arrangement. For example as the number of clients connected to a cell decrease the relative proportion of clients that are actively probing the cell may increase. In the example for instance two out of the three clients are actively probing the network cell .

In step the server determines an available cell capacity based at least in part on the available cell capacity estimates received in step . The server then sends the available cell capacity to the plurality of clients.

Similar to above embodiments are not limited solely to the particular ordering of steps shown in the methods and in . Certain steps may be rearranged or performed concurrently. In addition although not explicitly shown certain steps may be repeated. For example the server may repeat step and or step at defined time intervals as described above. In some embodiments some of the steps in the methods and may be omitted. For example in embodiments where a client does not communicate with a server certain steps in the method such as steps and are not required.

It should again be emphasized that the embodiments described above are for purposes of illustration only and should not be interpreted as limiting in any way. Other embodiments may use different types of network device and module configurations and alternative communication protocols process steps and operations for implementing network congestion monitoring functionality. The particular manner in which total cell capacities and available cell capacities as well as estimates thereof are computed can be varied in different embodiments. Also it should be understood that the particular assumptions made in the context of describing the illustrative embodiments should not be construed as requirements of the invention. The invention can be implemented in other embodiments in which these particular assumptions do not apply. These and numerous other alternative embodiments within the scope of the appended claims will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

