---

title: Jurisdiction-based adaptive communication systems and methods
abstract: Embodiments of systems and methods for jurisdiction-based adaptive communication are disclosed herein. In some embodiments, a wireless device may be configured to store different jurisdiction identifiers, each jurisdiction identifier in association with a stored set of wireless communication operation constraints. In some such embodiments, the wireless device may receive a jurisdiction identifier nominally representative of a jurisdiction in which communication hardware of the wireless device is located, and may validate or invalidate the received jurisdiction identifier. If the received jurisdiction identifier is validated, the wireless device may apply the stored set of wireless communication operation constraints corresponding to the received jurisdiction identifier to adapt the operation of the communication hardware of the wireless device. Other embodiments may be disclosed and/or claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09408063&OS=09408063&RS=09408063
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09408063
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140915
---
The present disclosure relates to device communication and more particularly to jurisdiction based adaptive communication.

Different countries have different regulatory requirements for wireless transmissions and compliance with these requirements may be necessary for lawful operation within the country. To accommodate these different regulatory requirements conventional wireless devices are configured to operate in accordance with the lowest common denominator requirements in order to achieve compliance with all likely jurisdictions or when permitted the devices may dynamically receive sets of regulatory requirements when operating in a particular jurisdiction.

Embodiments of systems and methods for jurisdiction based adaptive communication are disclosed herein. In some embodiments a wireless device may be configured to store multiple different jurisdiction identifiers each jurisdiction identifier in association with a stored set of wireless communication operation constraints. In some such embodiments the wireless device may receive a jurisdiction identifier nominally representative of a jurisdiction in which communication hardware of the wireless device is located and may validate or invalidate the received jurisdiction identifier based on whether the received jurisdiction identifier corresponds to one of the stored jurisdiction identifiers. In some embodiments the system may store an identifier of one or more trusted location providers and may validate or invalidate the received jurisdiction identifier based on whether the received jurisdiction identifier was provided by a trusted location provider. If the received jurisdiction identifier is validated the wireless device may apply the stored set of wireless communication operation constraints corresponding to the received jurisdiction identifier to adapt the operation of the communication hardware of the wireless device.

In some embodiments the wireless device may be configured to store multiple different jurisdiction identifiers each jurisdiction identifier in association with a stored location based jurisdiction definition and to store an identifier of a trusted location source. In some such embodiments the wireless device may receive location data nominally representative of a location at which communication hardware of the wireless device is located and may validate or invalidate the received location data based on whether the received location data was provided by the trusted location source. If the received location data is validated the wireless device may cause the provision of a jurisdiction identifier corresponding to the received location data based on the stored location based jurisdiction definitions to the communication hardware of the wireless device for use by the communication hardware to adapt its operation.

Various ones of the embodiments disclosed herein may enable computing devices that do not have ready access to location information to comply with the different wireless communication regulations of different countries in other jurisdictions. In cellular networks service providers may broadcast their identity and location such that nearby cellular devices can use this information to comply with regulatory requirements e.g. by querying a remote requirements database . However other wireless transmission protocols such as Wi Fi and Zigbee do not typically have access to location information even though the operation of devices in accordance with these transmission protocols may be affected by jurisdiction based regulatory requirements. Such devices may have been designed to comply with a specific wireless standard and may have no ready ability to comply with different sets of constraints depending upon the current location of the devices.

Consequently such devices have conventionally been designed as geo specific products that is a particular wireless device will be designed for compliance with the regulatory requirements of a particular jurisdiction and sold for use in that jurisdiction. This approach may be unsatisfactory in a number of ways. As an initial matter this approach relies on the assumption that the number of devices that will travel to countries that have a conflicting set of regulatory requirements will be limited and or the governing bodies of the various jurisdictions will allow traveling devices to operate temporarily within their borders . This is not always the case and the number of traveling wireless devices will only increase. Additionally this approach requires the manufacturer to maintain a range of different products for different jurisdictions and to keep those products segregated during manufacture storage transportation and distribution. Some manufacturers may decide to only produce one version of a product and design that product to comply with a set of lowest common denominator requirements that satisfy the regulatory requirements of most if not all the jurisdictions in which the product will be used. In other words compliance with the lowest common denominator requirements will ensure compliance with the regulatory requirements of most if not all the jurisdictions in which the product will be used. However this approach may hobble device performance and not allow devices to take advantage of improved regulatory conditions in certain jurisdictions. For example many countries do not allow a Wi Fi device to independently operate as a mobile access point in the 5.8 gigahertz band but the United States permits such operation. A lowest common denominator approach would prohibit a device from ever independently operating as a mobile access point in this band preventing the device from performing at its full capability where permitted e.g. in United States .

Moreover approaches that have been used for achieving regulatory compliance for cellular devices may be against the law or frowned upon by regulators when used in other types of wireless communication such as Wi Fi. In particular some regulatory bodies discourage or prohibit Wi Fi devices from querying a local access point to access the regulatory requirements in the jurisdiction at least because malicious access points may provide false information to querying devices. Instead such regulatory bodies may require or encourage wireless devices to store the relevant regulatory requirements on the wireless device itself to minimize the potential for malicious behavior. Indeed even if it is technically possible to configure Wi Fi access points or other communication nodes to broadcast or otherwise transmit location based operational constraints many regulatory bodies specifically require that end users be prevented from modifying the regulatory constraints of their wireless devices in the field.

Disclosed herein are systems and techniques that may be used to securely provide location information to such wireless devices such that the devices can trust the location information and use it to comply with local regulatory requirements. Various ones of the systems and techniques may allow wireless devices to verify their locations and dynamically apply appropriate regulatory settings. Implementation of the various ones of the systems and techniques disclosed herein may enable manufacturers to build new products and manage their inventory with increased efficiency. In some embodiments manufacturers and vendors may reduce operating expenses and streamline customer operations by reducing the number of regulatory requirement driven wireless device product versions.

Additionally various embodiments of the systems and techniques disclosed herein may enable devices to maximize their capabilities when operating in various jurisdictions. For example allowing a device to take advantage of a higher maximal transmit power in a particular jurisdiction may enable the operating range of that device and or the available throughput at a given distance to be enhanced.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof wherein like numerals designate like parts throughout and in which is shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete actions or operations in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the claimed subject matter. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. In particular these operations may not be performed in the order of presentation. Operations described may be performed in a different order than the described embodiment. Various additional operations may be performed and or described operations may be omitted in additional embodiments.

For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A B and or C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C .

The description uses the phrases in an embodiment or in embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments of the present disclosure are synonymous. As used herein the term logic may refer to be part of or include an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC an electronic circuit a processor shared dedicated or group and or memory shared dedicated or group that execute one or more software or firmware programs a combinational logic circuit and or other suitable components that provide the described functionality.

In some embodiments the system may be configured to store different jurisdiction identifiers each jurisdiction identifier in association with a stored location based jurisdiction definition and to store an identifier of a trusted location source. Each jurisdiction identifier may be associated with a set of wireless communication operation constraints representative of legal regulatory technical industry determined or other constraints that govern the operation of wireless devices within the jurisdiction identified by the associated jurisdiction identifier. In some such embodiments the system may be configured to receive location data nominally representative of a location at which the adaptive communication hardware of the system is located and may be configured to validate or invalidate the received location data based on whether the received location data was provided by the trusted location source. If the received location data is validated the system may be configured to identify a jurisdiction identifier corresponding to the received location data based on the stored location based jurisdiction definitions and may be configured to cause the provision of the jurisdiction identifier to the communication hardware of the system for use by the communication hardware to adapt its operation. A number of such embodiments are discussed in detail below.

As illustrated in the system may include a location provider and adaptive communication hardware . The location provider may include any suitable hardware configured to provide a jurisdiction identifier nominally representative of a jurisdiction in which the adaptive communication hardware of the system is located to the adaptive communication hardware based on location data representative of the location of communication hardware of the system in accordance with the techniques disclosed herein. The functionality of the location provider may be provided at least in part by hardware programmed with appropriate software. In some embodiments as discussed below the location provider and the adaptive communication hardware may be included in a common wireless device e.g. in a passive operation or other legal operational mode .

The adaptive communication hardware may include any suitable hardware configured to adapt its operation in response to receiving a jurisdiction identifier from the location provider in accordance with the techniques disclosed herein. The functionality of the adaptive communication hardware may be provided at least in part by hardware programmed with appropriate software. In some embodiments the adaptive communication hardware may not include a cellular modem and or may not be connected to a cellular network when using the systems and techniques disclosed herein. Although only a single location provider is illustrated in multiple location providers configured as discussed herein with reference to the location provider may be in communication with the adaptive communication hardware . These different location providers may represent different sources of jurisdiction identifiers for the adaptive communication hardware .

In some embodiments the system may be included in a single computing device. For example the system may be included in a single wireless device and the adaptive communication hardware may include network interface hardware and other suitable components for providing adaptive wireless communication functionality to the wireless device. A number of examples of apparatus that may implement the system are discussed below with reference to the apparatus of .

The location provider may provide jurisdiction identifiers based on location data arising from any of a number of sources. For example the location data may include global geolocation coordinates and one source of such location data may be a global navigation satellite system e.g. a global positioning system or GPS device a receiver for which may be included in the location provider or in communication with the location provider . A GPS receiver may be configured to receive messages from satellites that allow the GPS receiver to generate location data for a device monitored by GPS in accordance with known techniques. The location data may include latitude longitude and altitude for example. Another source of location data may be a Wi Fi device configured to generate location data based on the received signal strengths from identified Wi Fi beacons e.g. identified via Service Set Identifiers and or Media Access Control data having known positions in accordance with known techniques. Another source of location data may be a cellular location device configured to generate location data based on multilateration of cellular communication network signals from different radio towers in accordance with known techniques. These sources are simply illustrative and any suitable source may be used.

In some embodiments the various components of the system may be distributed between two or more computing devices. For example is a block diagram of an example embodiment of the adaptive communication system of in which the location provider may include a location source and a location agent . Each of the location source and the location agent may include suitable computing hardware configured in accordance with the techniques described herein. A number of examples of apparatus that may implement location provider and or the location agent are discussed below with reference to the apparatus of . The location source may be configured to provide location data nominally representative of a location at which communication hardware of the system is located to the location agent . The location agent may be configured to receive the location data from the location source and provide a jurisdiction identifier nominally representative of a jurisdiction at which communication hardware of the system is located to the adaptive communication hardware . Although only a single location source is illustrated in multiple location sources may be in communication with the location agent . Additionally although only a single location agent is illustrated in multiple location agents may be in communication with the adaptive communication hardware . These different location agents may represent different sources of jurisdiction identifiers for the adaptive communication hardware . In some embodiments each of the different location agents may be associated with one or more different location sources . For example one location agent may be associated with a global navigation satellite system location source e.g. a global positioning system GPS device and a second location agent may be associated with a wireless access point location source . Other examples of location sources may include a Wi Fi based location device a cellular network based location device an image capture device for capturing images of the environment of the adaptive communication hardware coupled with an image processor to identify a location based on landmarks or other markers captured in images an accelerometer an altimeter or any other such device.

In some embodiments the location agent and the adaptive communication hardware may be included in a single computing device. For example the location agent in the adaptive communication hardware may be included in a single wireless device. In some such embodiments the location source may be remote from the single wireless device that includes location agent and the adaptive communication hardware . In some such embodiments multiple location sources configured as discussed herein with reference to the location source may be remote from and in communication with the location agent .

The adaptive communication hardware may include a storage device . The storage device may be configured to store a first memory structure to hold one or more identifiers of a corresponding one or more jurisdictions. An identifier of a jurisdiction may take any suitable form. For example a jurisdiction may be identified by its name e.g. China European Union Smithfield Military Base etc. . A jurisdiction may be identified by an abbreviation e.g. USA for the United States of America FRA for France etc. . A jurisdiction may be identified by a number or any other sequence of symbols that is recognized by both the adaptive communication hardware and the device providing jurisdiction identifiers to the adaptive communication hardware e.g. the location provider as discussed below with reference to the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic . In some embodiments multiple jurisdictions e.g. multiple countries may be grouped under a single common jurisdiction identifier when the wireless communication operation constraints imposed by those jurisdictions are the same or similar. In such a case the jurisdiction identifier may represent a virtual jurisdiction formed of multiple political geographic or other jurisdictions.

The first memory structure may also be configured to hold one or more sets of wireless communication operation constraints as well as associations between individual ones of the jurisdiction identifiers and respective individual ones of the sets of wireless communication operation constraints. Associations between data in a memory structure may be implemented based on the memory structure and may include for example pointers references in a look up table sharing a common row or entry or any other known technique for associating data in a memory structure.

As noted above a set of wireless communication operation constraints may be representative of legal regulatory technical industry determined or other constraints that govern the operation of wireless devices within the jurisdiction identified by the jurisdiction identifier associated with the set of wireless communication operation constraints. Any constraints relevant to the operation of a wireless communication device in a particular jurisdiction may be included in the stored set of wireless communication operation constraints associated with an identifier of that jurisdiction. For example in some embodiments a set of wireless communication operation constraints may include an allowed channel of operation a prohibited channel of operation a maximal allowed transmit power e.g. per channel and or an allowed spectral mask. These example constraints may further include other constraints or specifications for example in some embodiments different modulation and coding schemes MCS used for wireless communication may have different transmit power constraints for the same channel. Other examples of wireless communication operation constraints may require the detection and avoidance of interference with specific incumbent services in various channels and bands such as weather radar equipment and intelligent transportation systems. Wireless communication operation constraints stored in the storage device may be relevant to different types of wireless communications. For example in some embodiments at least one of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints affects Wi Fi communication operations of the adaptive communication hardware . In some embodiments at least one of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints affects short range wireless communication operations of the adaptive communication hardware e.g. Bluetooth Zigbee or other short range protocols . In some embodiments at least one of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints affects wide area network WAN communication operations of the adaptive communication hardware e.g. cellular protocols such as 3G protocols .

In some embodiments each of the jurisdiction identifiers may be associated with a different set of wireless communication operation constraints. In other embodiments two or more jurisdiction identifiers may be associated with a common set of wireless communication operations constraints. This may occur when for example two or more countries have enacted the same regulations governing the use of wireless devices within their borders in such a scenario the storage device may store a set of wireless communication operation constraints corresponding to these regulations and may associate jurisdiction identifiers for each of the two or more countries with this set of wireless communication operation constraints.

In embodiments in which a set of wireless communication operation constraints includes constraints on two or more different aspects of wireless communication certain jurisdictions may share regulations governing one aspect while differing on regulations governing a different aspect. In such embodiments a single copy of those aspects that are common between the jurisdictions may be stored in the storage device and associated with jurisdiction identifiers of the relevant jurisdictions. For example if Country A and Country B share a prohibited channel of operation but have different maximal allowed transmit powers the storage device may include a single copy of the prohibited channel of operation constraint that is associated with an identifier of Country A and an identifier of Country B and may include different maximal allowed transmit power constraints associated with the identifier of Country A and the identifier of Country B.

Any suitable memory structure may be used to hold jurisdiction identifiers in association with sets of wireless communication operation constraints. For example depicts a memory structure that may hold jurisdiction identifiers and associated sets of wireless communication operation constraints in accordance with various embodiments. The memory structure may include a jurisdiction identifier field a wireless communication operation constraints field and multiple entries each including a jurisdiction identifier and an associated set of wireless communication operation constraints in their respective fields. The sets of wireless communication operation constraints shown in are simply illustrative and not representative of any particular constraints actually imposed by any particular jurisdiction. Although a single wireless communication operation constraints field is illustrated in the memory structure the memory structure may include different fields for different aspects of wireless communication. For example the memory structure may include one field for prohibited channels and a different field for allowed channels. If a particular jurisdiction does not have any constraints governing one or more aspects the entry for that aspect and that jurisdiction may leave the corresponding aspect field blank or may include a placeholder indicating that no constraint is present.

In some embodiments the storage device may be configured to store a memory structure that may hold an invalid jurisdiction identifier. The invalid jurisdiction identifier may be provided to the adaptive communication hardware by the location provider when the location provider is unable to determine the jurisdiction in which the adaptive communication hardware is located. This may occur when the location provider e.g. the location agent has not received location data from a trusted location source the received location data is not sufficiently accurate the received location data is not sufficiently current in that the location data has a timestamp representing a time that falls outside of a predetermined window with respect to the current time the received location data is corrupted or another error in operation has occurred.

The invalid jurisdiction identifier may be associated with a default set of wireless communication operation constraints. The default set of wireless communication operation constraints may describe the wireless communication operation constraints that the adaptive communication hardware is to follow if the invalid jurisdiction identifier is received or the adaptive communication hardware is otherwise unable to determine its jurisdiction. In some embodiments the default set of wireless communication operation constraints may satisfy all of the other sets of wireless communication operation constraints stored in the storage device . In other words the default set of wireless communication operation constraints may be such that when the adaptive communication hardware operates in accordance with the default set of wireless communication operation constraints the adaptive communication hardware will satisfy the wireless communication operation constraints of any of the jurisdictions whose identifiers are stored in the storage device . In some embodiments the default set of wireless communication operation constraints may provide a worldwide common set of operation constraints.

The invalid jurisdiction identifier and associated default set of wireless communication operation constraints may be stored in the same memory structure as the other jurisdiction identifiers and sets of wireless communication operation constraints e.g. the memory structure discussed above with reference to or in a different memory structure. For example depicts a memory structure that may hold an invalid jurisdiction identifier and an associated set of default wireless communication operation constraints in accordance with various embodiments. The memory structure may include a jurisdiction identifier field a wireless communication operation constraints field and an entry including the invalid jurisdiction identifier and the associated default set of wireless communication operation constraints in their respective fields. Although a single invalid jurisdiction identifier entry is illustrated in the adaptive communication hardware may recognize multiple different invalid jurisdiction identifiers which may be associated with different or a common set of default wireless communication operation constraints. In some embodiments the location provider may provide different invalid jurisdiction identifiers corresponding to different reasons that the location provider was unable to provide an invalid jurisdiction identifier. For example the location provider may provide a first invalid jurisdiction identifier when received location data is not sufficiently accurate and a second invalid jurisdiction identifier when received location data is not sufficiently current. The adaptive communication hardware may use these different invalid jurisdiction identifiers to log the performance of the location provider to communicate with the location provider about its performance or for any other desired purpose. In some embodiments the adaptive communication hardware may use an invalid jurisdiction identifier when it does not recognize a jurisdiction identifier provided by the location provider e.g. the jurisdiction identifier provided by the location provider does not match any of the stored and valid jurisdiction identifiers accessible to the adaptive communication hardware . In some embodiments the adaptive communication hardware may be initialized so as to use the invalid jurisdiction identifier as a default setting unless a recognized alternative jurisdiction identifier is provided by the location provider .

The storage device may also be configured to store a second memory structure to hold identifiers of one or more trusted location providers. A trusted location provider may be a location provider that has been previously determined to be trustworthy by a developer of the adaptive communication hardware or another entity so that jurisdiction identifiers provided by a trusted location provider representative of a jurisdiction in which the adaptive communication hardware is located should be used by the adaptive communication hardware to adapt its operation to conform to constraints within that jurisdiction. In some embodiments a trusted location provider may provide jurisdiction identifiers that are encrypted or signed with a key known to the adaptive communication hardware so that the provider of received jurisdiction identifiers can be authenticated using that key or an associated key.

As discussed above with reference to the location provider a location provider may be local to the adaptive communication hardware e.g. included in a same wireless device at the adaptive communication hardware may be remote from the adaptive communication hardware or may include components that are both local to and remote from the adaptive communication hardware e.g. as discussed above with reference to the embodiment of in which the location agent is local to the adaptive communication hardware and the location source is remote from the adaptive communication hardware . In some embodiments the storage device may store a trusted location provider identifier that identifies a service of an operating system of a wireless device that includes the adaptive communication hardware . As used herein a service of an operating system may include a set of Application Programming Interfaces APIs and related capabilities provided by an operating system that can be used by applications and or devices operating within the context of the operating system. In some embodiments the storage device may store a trusted location provider identifier that identifies a system service of a wireless device that includes the adaptive communication hardware . As used herein a system service provided by a wireless device may include any suitable capability of the wireless device exported through a well defined API often through an operating system. In some embodiments the storage device may store a trusted location provider identifier that identifies a global navigation satellite system device. In some embodiments the storage device may store a trusted location provider identifier that identifies an access point or other beacon. In some embodiments the storage device may store a trusted location provider identifier that identifies a trusted independent hardware vendor IHV location provider. In some embodiments the storage device may store a trusted location provider identifier that identifies a trusted operating system OS location provider. The computing device that includes the adaptive communication hardware may include hardware suitable for receiving jurisdiction identifiers from the one or more trusted location providers whose identifiers are stored in the storage device e.g. a global positioning system receiver .

Any suitable memory structure may be used to hold trusted location provider identifiers. For example depicts a memory structure that may hold trusted location provider identifiers in accordance with various embodiments. The memory structure may include a trusted location provider identifier field a key field and multiple entries and each including a trusted location provider identifier and key in their respective fields. The key field may include a decryption key that may be used to decrypt and or verify a jurisdiction identifier provided by the trusted location provider associated with the decryption key to authenticate that the jurisdiction identifier is indeed from the associated trusted location provider. In some embodiments a key stored in the key field may be a public key of a public private key pair and may be used to authenticate a jurisdiction identifier signed by the associated trusted location provider with the associated private key. In particular a trusted location provider may store the associated private key and may include authentication logic configured to use the associated private key to encrypt and or sign the jurisdiction identifier and the public key stored in the key field may be used to decrypt and or verify the encrypted or signed jurisdiction identifier. In some embodiments no key field may be included.

The adaptive communication hardware may include jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic . The jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may be coupled to the storage device and may be in communication with the location provider e.g. the location agent . The jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may be configured to validate or invalidate a jurisdiction identifier received by the adaptive communication hardware . The received jurisdiction identifier may be provided by the location provider e.g. by the location agent based on location data provided by the location source . A jurisdiction identifier may be received by the adaptive communication hardware at periodic intervals e.g. pushed by the location provider or may be received by the adaptive communication hardware in response to a request transmitted from the adaptive communication hardware to the location provider e.g. pulled from the location provider . The request may be transmitted at predetermined intervals in response to detecting that the adaptive communication hardware has traveled a predetermined distance e.g. using an accelerometer or according to any other schedule or set of trigger conditions. For example a push or pull of a jurisdiction identifier may be triggered in response to the occurrence of a predefined event and or periodically. In some embodiments a periodic request for a jurisdiction identifier may be transmitted to the location provider by a system service or daemon of the adaptive communication hardware .

The jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may be configured to validate or invalidate the received jurisdiction identifier in any of a number of ways. For example in some embodiments the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may compare the received jurisdiction identifier to the jurisdiction identifiers stored in the first memory structure of the storage device . If the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic determines that the received jurisdiction identifier does not correspond to one of the already stored jurisdiction identifiers the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may invalidate the received jurisdiction identifier otherwise the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may validate the received jurisdiction identifier or proceed to perform another validation operation.

In some embodiments the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may compare the received jurisdiction identifier to the jurisdiction identifiers stored in the storage device to determine whether the received jurisdiction identifier corresponds to an invalid jurisdiction identifier stored in the storage device e.g. as discussed above with reference to the memory structures and of . If the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic determines that the received jurisdiction identifier corresponds to a stored invalid jurisdiction identifier the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may invalidate the received jurisdiction identifier otherwise the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may validate the received jurisdiction identifier or proceed to perform another validation operation.

In some embodiments the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may compare an identifier of the location provider that provided the received jurisdiction identifier to the trusted location provider identifiers stored in the second memory structure of the storage device . If the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic determines that the location provider that provided the received jurisdiction identifier is not one of the trusted location providers the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may invalidate the received jurisdiction identifier otherwise the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may validate the received jurisdiction identifier or proceed to perform another validation operation.

In some embodiments the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may determine whether the received jurisdiction identifier can be authenticated as being provided by the trusted location provider that nominally provided the received jurisdiction identifier. For example the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may use a key associated with the trusted location provider e.g. stored in the storage device as discussed above with reference to the memory structure of to attempt to authenticate the received jurisdiction identifier e.g. by decrypting or verifying the received jurisdiction identifier . If the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic is not able to successfully authenticate the received jurisdiction identifier e.g. by failing to decrypt and or verify the received jurisdiction identifier the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may invalidate the received jurisdiction identifier otherwise the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may validate the received jurisdiction identifier or proceed to perform another validation operation.

The adaptive communication hardware may include operation constraint application logic . The operation constraint application logic may be coupled to the storage device and may be in communication with the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic . The operation constraint application logic may be configured to in response to validation of a received jurisdiction identifier by the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic as discussed above apply a stored set of wireless communication operation constraints corresponding to the received jurisdiction identifier and the associated stored jurisdiction identifier to adapt the operation of the adaptive communication hardware . In particular the operation constraint application logic may cause the adaptive communication hardware to operate within the constraints imposed by the set of wireless communication operation constraints associated with the received jurisdiction identifier thereby adapting operation of the adaptive communication hardware to the regulations of the jurisdiction in which the adaptive communication hardware is operating.

In some embodiments the operation constraint application logic may be configured to in response to invalidation of the received jurisdiction identifier by the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic as discussed above apply a stored default set of wireless communication operation constraints to adapt the operation of the adaptive communication hardware . Default sets of wireless communication operation constraints are discussed above with reference to . For example the default set of wireless communication operation constraints may satisfy all of the other sets of wireless communication operation constraints stored in the storage device and thereby may be appropriate for all associated jurisdictions.

The location agent may include a storage device . The storage device may be configured to store a first memory structure to hold one or more identifiers of a corresponding one or more jurisdictions. The jurisdiction identifiers held in the first memory structure may take any suitable form such as any of the forms of jurisdiction identifiers discussed above with reference to the storage device of the adaptive communication hardware . In particular the jurisdiction identifiers may take any form agreed upon by both the location agent and the adaptive communication hardware . In some embodiments for example the jurisdiction identifiers held in the first memory structure of the storage device may correspond to various countries.

The first memory structure may also be configured to hold one or more location based jurisdiction definitions as well as associations between individual ones of the jurisdiction identifiers and respective individual ones of the location based jurisdiction definitions. A location based jurisdiction definition may take any suitable form such that when the location agent receives location data representative of the location of the adaptive communication hardware from a trusted location source the location agent is able to determine into which jurisdiction identified by an associated jurisdiction identifier in the first memory structure the location falls or to determine that the location does not fall into any predefined jurisdiction . In some embodiments a location based jurisdiction definition may take the form of any of the formats used to describe a geofence in a geofencing application as known in the art. For example a location based jurisdiction definition may be an area bounded by a circular boundary defined in the first memory structure by a center location and a radius. A location based jurisdiction definition may be an area bounded by an irregular boundary defined in the first memory structure by a number of points e.g. longitude and latitude along the boundary and an interpolation rule for interpolating between the points e.g. interpolation via a straight line or a curve . A location based jurisdiction definition may be an area bounded by a polygon boundary defined in the first memory structure by a number of boundary corners connected by boundary segments which may be expressly included in the first memory structure or implied by an interpolation rule included in the first memory structure or elsewhere . Any other suitable location based jurisdiction definition may be used.

In some embodiments identification of a jurisdiction based on location data may be a two step process in the first step the location data may be translated to a particular jurisdiction e.g. identifying that a particular set of GPS coordinates is located in Paris France and in the second step the jurisdiction may be translated to a particular jurisdiction identifier e.g. determining that Paris France corresponds to the jurisdiction identifier EU . This may be particularly useful when multiple disparate geographic jurisdictions are associated with one jurisdiction identifier e.g. the jurisdiction identifier ANZ representing the jurisdictions Australia and New Zealand .

Any suitable memory structure may be used to hold jurisdiction identifiers in association with location based jurisdiction definitions. For example depicts a memory structure that may hold jurisdiction identifiers and associated location based jurisdiction definitions in accordance with various embodiments. The memory structure may include a jurisdiction identifier field a location based jurisdiction definitions field and multiple entries each including a jurisdiction identifier and an associated location based jurisdiction definition in their respective fields. The location based jurisdiction definitions shown in are simply illustrative and not representative of any particular definition of any particular jurisdiction.

The storage device may also be configured to store a second memory structure to hold identifiers of one or more trusted location sources. A trusted location source may be a location source that has been previously determined to be trustworthy by a developer of the adaptive communication hardware the location agent or another entity so that the location data provided by a trusted location source representative of a location of the adaptive communication hardware should be used by the location agent to determine a jurisdiction in which the adaptive communication hardware falls in order to cause the adaptive communication hardware to adapt its operation to conform to constraints within that jurisdiction. In some embodiments a trusted location source may provide location data that are encrypted or signed with a key known to the location agent so that the source of received location data can be authenticated using that key or an associated key.

Any suitable memory structure may be used to hold trusted location source identifiers. For example depicts a memory structure that may hold trusted location source identifiers in accordance with various embodiments. The memory structure may include a trusted location source identifier field a key field and multiple entries and each including a trusted location source identifier and key in their respective fields. The key field may include a decryption key that may be used to decrypt and or verify location data provided by the trusted location source associated with the decryption key to authenticate that the location data is indeed from the associated trusted location source. In some embodiments a key stored in the key field may be a public key of a public private key pair and may be used to authenticate location data signed by the associated trusted location source with the associated private key as discussed above with reference to . In some embodiments no key field may be included.

As noted above in some embodiments the location provider may be implemented as a separate location source and a location agent . In some such embodiments the examples of trusted location provider identifiers and related processes discussed above with reference to may be implemented as trusted location source identifiers and related processes that are to be validated or invalidated by the location agent . For example the storage device may store a trusted location source identifier that identifies a service of an operating system of a wireless device that includes the adaptive communication hardware . In some embodiments the storage device may store a trusted location source identifier that identifies a system service of a wireless device that includes the adaptive communication hardware . In some embodiments the storage device may store a trusted location source identifier that identifies a global navigation satellite system device. In some embodiments the storage device may store a trusted location source identifier that identifies an access point or other beacon. The computing device that includes the location agent may include hardware suitable for receiving location data from the one or more trusted location sources whose identifiers are stored in the storage device e.g. a GPS receiver .

The location agent may include location validation logic . The location validation logic may be coupled to the storage device and may be in communication with the location source . The location validation logic may be configured to validate or invalidate location data received by the location agent . Validating the received location data may include verifying that the received location data was provided by a location source that corresponds to a trusted location source identifier stored in the second memory structure of the storage device . The received location data may be provided by the location source . Location data may be received by the location agent at periodic intervals e.g. pushed by the location source or may be received by the location agent in response to a request transmitted from the location agent to the location source e.g. pulled from the location source . The request may be transmitted at predetermined intervals in response to detecting that the adaptive communication hardware has traveled a predetermined distance e.g. using an accelerometer or according to any other schedule or set of trigger conditions. In some embodiments a periodic request for location data may be transmitted to the location source by a system service or daemon of the location agent .

The location validation logic may be configured to validate or invalidate the received location data in any of a number of ways. For example in some embodiments the location validation logic may compare the received location data to the location based jurisdiction definitions stored in the first memory structure of the storage device . If the location validation logic determines that the received location data does not correspond to one of the already stored location based jurisdiction definitions the location validation logic may invalidate the received location data otherwise the location validation logic may validate the received location data or proceed to perform another validation operation.

In some embodiments the location validation logic may compare an identifier of the location source that provided the received location validation logic e.g. a location source to the trusted location source identifiers stored in the second memory structure of the storage device . If the location validation logic determines that the location source that provided the received location data is not one of the trusted location sources the location validation logic may invalidate the received location data otherwise the location validation logic may validate the received location data or proceed to perform another validation operation.

In some embodiments the location validation logic may determine whether the received location data can be authenticated as being provided by the trusted location source that nominally provided the received location data. For example the location validation logic may use a key associated with the trusted location source e.g. stored in the storage device as discussed above with reference to the memory structure of to attempt to authenticate the received location data e.g. by decrypting or verifying the received location data . If the location validation logic is not able to successfully authenticate the received location data e.g. by failing to decrypt and or verify the received location data the location validation logic may invalidate the received location data otherwise the location validation logic may validate the received location data or proceed to perform another validation operation.

In some embodiments the received location data may be time stamped with a time representative of a time at which the nominal measurement of the location of the adaptive communication hardware was made. In some embodiments the location validation logic may be configured to determine whether the timestamp of the received location data falls within a predetermined time window of a current time. In other words the location validation logic may be configured to determine whether the received location data is sufficiently current. The duration of the time window may be stored in the storage device for access by location validation logic and the location agent may include or have access to a clock to determine the current time. If the location validation logic is not able to determine that the timestamp of the received location data falls within the predetermined time window of the current time e.g. by determining that the timestamp represents a time that is too old the location validation logic may invalidate the received location data otherwise the location validation logic may validate the received location data or proceed to perform another validation operation.

In some embodiments the received location data may include a location accuracy indicating the accuracy of the nominal measurement of the location of the adaptive communication hardware . This accuracy may be measured in meters kilometers or any other suitable unit and may be a function of the type of device making the location measurement e.g. GPS Wi Fi localization or other techniques the conditions under which the measurement was made and other known variables. In some embodiments the location validation logic may be configured to determine whether the location accuracy of the received location data is within a predetermined range. In other words the location validation logic may be configured to determine whether the received location data is sufficiently accurate. The predetermined range may be stored in the storage device for access by the location validation logic . If the location validation logic is not able to determine that the location accuracy is within the predetermined range e.g. by determining that the location accuracy falls outside the predetermined range the location validation logic may invalidate the received location data otherwise the location validation logic may validate the received location data or proceed to perform another validation operation.

The location agent may include jurisdiction identification logic . The jurisdiction identification logic may be coupled to the storage device and the location validation logic . The jurisdiction identification logic may be configured to identify in response to validation of the received location data by the location validation logic a jurisdiction identifier corresponding to a location based jurisdiction definition that includes the received location data. For example jurisdiction identification logic may be configured to analyze the received location data determine whether the received location data corresponds to any of the stored location based jurisdiction definitions and identify the jurisdiction identifier associated with the corresponding stored location based jurisdiction definition when a match occurs.

The jurisdiction identification logic may also be configured to cause the provision of the identified jurisdiction identifier to the adaptive communication hardware for use by the adaptive communication hardware to adapt its operation as discussed above. The jurisdiction identification logic may cause the provision of the jurisdiction identifier to the adaptive communication hardware in any of a number of ways such as through a wireless communication pathway or a wired communication pathway. In embodiments in which the location agent and the adaptive communication hardware are included in a common wireless device the jurisdiction identification logic may cause the provision of the jurisdiction identifier to the adaptive communication hardware over one or more wired communication pathways through circuit boards included in the wireless device.

In some embodiments the jurisdiction identification logic may be configured to in response to invalidation of the received location data by the location validation logic identify a designated invalid jurisdiction identifier and cause the provision of the invalid jurisdiction identifier to the adaptive communication hardware . An invalid jurisdiction identifier may take any suitable form such as any of the forms of an invalid jurisdiction identifier discussed above.

In some embodiments the location agent may include encryption logic . The encryption logic may be coupled to the storage device and the jurisdiction identification logic and may be configured to encrypt and or sign a jurisdiction identifier identified by the jurisdiction identification logic prior to provision of the jurisdiction identifier to the adaptive communication hardware . In some embodiments the encryption logic may be called or triggered by the jurisdiction identification logic to perform the encryption or signing on the identified jurisdiction identifier. The encrypted or signed jurisdiction identifier may be provided to the adaptive communication hardware and the adaptive communication hardware may be configured to attempt to decrypt and or verify the encrypted or signed jurisdiction identifier to authenticate the location agent as discussed above.

A number of examples of operations performed by various components of embodiments of an adaptive communication system are discussed herein. are flow diagrams of some such examples of processes that may be performed by various components of various embodiments of an adaptive communication system. The operations of the processes of and the other processes described herein although illustrated as performed in a particular sequence for the sake of illustration may be performed in parallel as suitable or in any other order. Operations of the processes of and the other processes described herein may be described as performed by components of the adaptive communication system for illustrative purposes but the operations of these processes may be performed by any suitably configured computing device or collection of computing devices. Any of the operations of the processes of and the other processes described herein may be performed in accordance with any of the embodiments of the adaptive communication system described herein.

At the location agent may store e.g. in the storage device one or more jurisdiction identifiers in association with location based jurisdiction definitions. The jurisdiction identifiers and associated location based jurisdiction definitions may be provided to the location agent during manufacture and initial provisioning of the location agent e.g. the manufacturing and provisioning of a wireless device in which the location agent is included and or may be provided to the location agent as updates via a wired or wireless network connection or on a non transitory computer readable media such as a solid state drive after manufacture.

At the location agent may store e.g. in the storage device location data validation requirements. Examples of location data validation requirements may include identifiers of one or more trusted location sources a required accuracy of location data or any of the other location data validation requirements discussed above with reference to the location validation logic . The location data validation requirements may be provided to the location agent during manufacture and initial provisioning of the location agent and or may be provided to the location agent as updates as discussed above with reference to .

At the location agent may receive location data from the location source . The location data may be nominally representative of a location of the adaptive communication hardware . The location data may be received via a wired or wireless network connection for example.

At the location agent e.g. the location validation logic may determine whether the location data received at is valid by evaluating the received location data against the location data validation requirements of . Any of the validation operations discussed above with reference to the location validation logic may be performed in any combination at .

If the location agent determines at that the received location data is valid the location agent may proceed to at which the location agent e.g. the jurisdiction identification logic may identify the jurisdiction identifier corresponding to the location based jurisdiction definition that includes the received location data. If the location agent determines at that the received location data is invalid the location agent may proceed to at which the location agent e.g. the jurisdiction identification logic may identify a designated invalid jurisdiction identifier.

At the location agent e.g. the jurisdiction identification logic may cause the provision of the jurisdiction identifier identified at or to the adaptive communication hardware for use in adapting the operation of the adaptive communication hardware . In some embodiments the location agent e.g. the encryption logic may encrypt and or sign the identified jurisdiction identifier at and may cause the provision of the encrypted or signed jurisdiction identifier.

In the process the operations described with reference to may provide the operations described with reference to the storage of location data validation requirements at of the process . At the location agent may store e.g. in the storage device identifiers of one or more trusted location sources. At the location agent may store e.g. in the storage device a time threshold. At the location agent may store e.g. in the storage device an accuracy threshold.

At the location agent may receive location data from the location source . The location data received at may include an identifier of the location source a timestamp a location value nominally representative of a location of the adaptive communication hardware and a location accuracy.

At the location agent e.g. the location validation logic may determine whether the source of the location data indicated in the location data received at is a trusted location source. The location agent may perform the determination by comparing an identifier of the source of location data indicated in the location data received at with the trusted location source identifiers stored at .

If the location agent determines at that the location source is a trusted location source the location agent e.g. the location validation logic may proceed to and determine whether the timestamp of the received location data is within a time window defined by subtracting the time threshold stored at from the current time.

If the location agent determines at that the timestamp of the received location data is within the time window the location agent e.g. the location validation logic may proceed to and determine whether the location accuracy of the received location data is less than or equal to the accuracy threshold stored at .

If the location agent determines at that the location accuracy of the received location data is less than or equal to the accuracy threshold the location agent e.g. the jurisdiction identification logic may proceed to to identify the jurisdiction identifier corresponding to location based jurisdiction definition that includes the received location value corresponding to of the process of . If the received location value does not satisfy any of the stored location based jurisdiction definitions the location agent may identify an invalid jurisdiction identifier at .

If the location agent determines at that the source of the location data is not a trusted location source or determines at that the timestamp of the received location data is not within the time window or determines at that the location accuracy does not satisfy the accuracy threshold the location agent e.g. the jurisdiction identification logic may proceed to to identify a designated invalid jurisdiction identifier.

At the location agent e.g. the encryption logic may encrypt and or sign the jurisdiction identifier identified at either of or .

At the location agent e.g. the jurisdiction identification logic may cause the provision of the encrypted or signed jurisdiction identifier to the adaptive communication hardware for use by the adaptive communication hardware in adapting its operation.

At the adaptive communication hardware may store e.g. in the storage device one or more jurisdiction identifiers in association with sets of wireless communication operation constraints. The jurisdiction identifiers and associated sets of wireless communication operation constraints may be provided to the adaptive communication hardware during manufacture and initial provisioning of the adaptive communication hardware e.g. the manufacturing and provisioning of a wireless device in which the adaptive communication hardware is included and or may be provided to the adaptive communication hardware as updates via a wired or wireless network connection or on a non transitory computer readable media such as a solid state drive after manufacture.

At the adaptive communication hardware may store e.g. in the storage device jurisdiction identifier validation requirements. Examples of jurisdiction identifier validation requirements may include identifiers of one or more trusted location providers a requirement that the jurisdiction identifier corresponds to a stored jurisdiction identifier or any of the other jurisdiction identifier validation requirements discussed above with reference to the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic . The jurisdiction identifier validation requirements may be provided to the adaptive communication hardware during manufacture and initial provisioning of the adaptive communication hardware and or may be provided to the adaptive communication hardware as updates as discussed above with reference to .

At the adaptive communication hardware may receive a jurisdiction identifier from location provider e.g. from the location agent . The jurisdiction identifier may be nominally representative of a jurisdiction in which the adaptive communication hardware is located. The jurisdiction identifier may be received via a wired or wireless network connection for example. In embodiments in which the location agent and the adaptive communication hardware are included in a common wireless device the jurisdiction identifier may be provided to the adaptive communication hardware over one or more wired communication pathways through circuit boards included in the wireless device.

At the adaptive communication hardware e.g. the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may determine whether the jurisdiction identifier received at is valid by evaluating the received jurisdiction identifier against the jurisdiction identifier validation requirements of . Any of the validation operations discussed above with reference to the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic may be performed in any combination at .

If the adaptive communication hardware determines at that the received jurisdiction identifier is valid the adaptive communication hardware may proceed to at which the adaptive communication hardware e.g. the operation constraint application logic may apply the wireless communication operation constraints corresponding to the jurisdiction identifier received at . If the adaptive communication hardware determines at that the received jurisdiction identifier is invalid the adaptive communication hardware may proceed to at which the adaptive communication hardware e.g. the operation constraint application logic may apply a default set of wireless communication operation constraints.

Referring now to a block diagram is provided of an example apparatus suitable for practicing various ones of the disclosed embodiments. In various embodiments the apparatus may be a server desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer cell phone smartphone personal digital assistant game console Internet appliance mobile Internet device or other computing device. Embodiments of the adaptive communication systems and techniques disclosed herein may be particularly advantageous when the apparatus is a mobile wireless device such as a lightweight laptop a tablet two in one devices that can operate as a tablet or laptop or a smartphone. Embodiments in which the adaptive communication systems and techniques disclosed herein are implemented in wireless devices that integrate a network interface card into a platform system on a chip may also be advantageous.

As shown the apparatus may include a number of processing devices and a system memory . Any one or more of the processing devices and the system memory may be configured to include any of the logic disclosed herein. For example one or more of the processing devices and the system memory may be configured to provide the adaptive communication hardware or the location provider . Logic performing the function of any component of the adaptive communication devices disclosed herein may be stored at least in part in the system memory. Additionally the apparatus may include mass storage devices such as diskette hard drive compact disc read only memory CD ROM and so forth input output I O devices such as display keyboard cursor control and so forth and communication interfaces such as network interface cards modems power amplifiers and so forth . The elements may be coupled to each other via system bus which represents one or more buses. In the case of multiple buses they may be bridged by one or more bus bridges not shown . In some embodiments the adaptive communication hardware includes the communication interface and one or more of the I O devices e.g. antennas receiving circuitry and transmitting circuitry . In some embodiments the sets of wireless communication operation constraints that may be applied based on jurisdiction in accordance with the techniques disclosed herein may be applied to the communication interfaces and or one or more of the I O devices .

Each of these elements may perform its conventional functions known in the art. In particular the system memory and the mass storage may be employed to store a working copy and a permanent copy of the programming instructions implementing the processes of any of or portions thereof when executed by the respective processing devices herein collectively denoted as computational logic . The various components may be implemented by assembler instructions supported by the processing devices or high level languages such as for example C that can be compiled into such instructions. The processing devices and the system memory may represent a broad range of processing device and memory arrangements including arrangements of processing cores of various execution speeds and power consumptions and memory of various architectures e.g. with one or more levels of caches and various types e.g. dynamic random access FLASH etc. .

The permanent copy of the programming instructions may be placed into mass storage in the factory or in the field through for example a machine accessible distribution medium not shown such as a compact disc CD or through communication interface e.g. from a distribution server not shown . That is one or more distribution media having an implementation of an agent program may be employed to distribute the agent program to various computing devices. In some embodiments logic may be updated in accordance with an updating mechanism. The constitution of elements is known and accordingly will not be further described.

Computer readable media including non transitory computer readable media such as computer readable storage media methods systems and devices for performing the above described techniques are illustrative examples of embodiments disclosed herein. Additionally other devices in the above described interactions may be configured to perform various disclosed techniques.

The following paragraphs describe examples of various embodiments disclosed herein. Example 1 is a wireless device for adaptive communication including a storage device to store a first memory structure to hold a plurality of identifiers of a corresponding plurality of jurisdictions a plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints and associations between individual ones of the plurality of jurisdiction identifiers and respective individual ones of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic communicatively coupled to the storage device to validate or invalidate a received jurisdiction identifier nominally representative of a jurisdiction in which communication hardware of the wireless device is located wherein to validate the received jurisdiction identifier includes to determine that the received jurisdiction identifier corresponds to one of the stored plurality of jurisdiction identifiers and operation constraint application logic communicatively coupled to the storage device and to the jurisdiction identifier evaluation logic to apply in response to validation of the received jurisdiction identifier a stored set of wireless communication operation constraints corresponding to the received jurisdiction identifier.

Example 2 may include the subject matter of Example 1 and may further specify that the operation constraint application logic is to in response to invalidation of the received jurisdiction identifier apply a default set of wireless communication operation constraints.

Example 3 may include the subject matter of Example 2 and may further specify that the default set of wireless communication operation constraints satisfies all of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints.

Example 4 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 2 3 and may further specify that to invalidate the received jurisdiction identifier includes to determine that the received jurisdiction identifier does not correspond to one of the stored plurality of jurisdiction identifiers.

Example 5 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 1 4 and may further specify that the storage device is further to store a second memory structure to hold identifiers of one or more trusted location providers and to validate the received jurisdiction identifier includes to verify that the received jurisdiction identifier was provided by a location provider that corresponds to at least one of the one or more stored trusted location provider identifiers.

Example 6 may include the subject matter of Example 5 and may further specify that to invalidate the received jurisdiction identifier includes to fail to verify that the received jurisdiction identifier was provided by a location provider that corresponds to at least one of the one or more stored trusted location provider identifier.

Example 7 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 2 4 and may further specify that to invalidate the received jurisdiction identifier includes to determine that the received jurisdiction identifier corresponds to an invalid jurisdiction identifier included in the stored plurality of jurisdiction identifiers.

Example 8 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 1 7 and may further specify that at least one of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints includes an allowed channel of operation a prohibited channel of operation a maximal allowed transmit power or an allowed spectral mask.

Example 9 is a wireless device for adaptive communication including a storage device to store a first memory structure to hold a plurality of identifiers of a corresponding plurality of jurisdictions in association with a plurality of location based jurisdiction definitions the storage device further to store a second memory structure to hold identifiers of one or more trusted location sources location validation logic communicatively coupled to the storage device to validate or invalidate received location data nominally representative of a location at which communication hardware of the wireless device is located wherein to validate the received location data includes to verify that the received location data was provided by a location source that corresponds to at least one of the stored trusted location source identifiers and jurisdiction identification logic communicatively coupled to the storage device and to the location validation logic to cause in response to validation of the received location data provision of a jurisdiction identifier corresponding to a location based jurisdiction definition that includes the received location data to the communication hardware of the wireless device.

Example 10 may include the subject matter of Example 9 and may further specify that the received location data includes a timestamp and to validate the received location data includes to determine that the timestamp falls within a predetermined time window of a current time.

Example 11 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 9 10 and may further specify that the received location data includes an indicator of a location accuracy and to validate the received location data includes to determine that the location accuracy is within a predetermined range.

Example 12 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 9 11 and may further include encryption logic to encrypt and or sign the jurisdiction identifier prior to provision to the communication hardware.

Example 13 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 9 12 and may further specify that the jurisdiction identification logic in response to invalidation of the received location data is to identify a designated invalid jurisdiction identifier and cause provision of the invalid jurisdiction identifier to the communication hardware.

Example 14 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 9 13 and may further specify that the location data include global geolocation coordinates.

Example 15 is one or more computer readable storage media having instructions thereon that in response to execution of the instructions by one or more processing devices of a wireless device cause the wireless device to store a first memory structure to hold a plurality of identifiers of a corresponding plurality of jurisdictions a plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints and associations between individual ones of the plurality of jurisdiction identifiers and respective individual ones of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints validate or invalidate a received jurisdiction identifier nominally representative of a jurisdiction in which communication hardware of the wireless device is located wherein validate the received jurisdiction identifier includes determine that the received jurisdiction identifier corresponds to one of the stored plurality of jurisdiction identifiers and apply in response to validation of the received jurisdiction identifier a stored set of wireless communication operation constraints corresponding to the received jurisdiction identifier.

Example 16 may include the subject matter of Example 15 and may further have instructions thereon that in response to execution of the instructions by the one or more processing devices of the wireless device cause the wireless device to in response to invalidation of the received jurisdiction identifier apply a default set of wireless communication operation constraints.

Example 17 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 15 16 and may further specify that at least one of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints affects Wi Fi communication operations of the communication hardware of the wireless device.

Example 18 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 15 17 and may further specify that at least one of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints affects short range wireless communication operations of the communication hardware of the wireless device.

Example 19 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 15 18 and may further have instructions thereon that in response to execution of the instructions by the one or more processing devices of the wireless device cause the wireless device to store a second memory structure to hold identifiers of one or more trusted location providers wherein validate the received jurisdiction identifier includes verify that the received jurisdiction identifier was provided by a location provider that corresponds to at least one of the stored trusted location provider identifiers wherein the jurisdiction identifier is encrypted or signed when received and verify that the received jurisdiction identifier was provided by a location provider that corresponds to the stored trusted location provider identifier comprises successfully decrypt and or verify the received jurisdiction identifier.

Example 20 is one or more computer readable storage media having instructions thereon that in response to execution of the instructions by one or more processing devices of a wireless device cause the wireless device to store a first memory structure to hold a plurality of identifiers of a corresponding plurality of jurisdictions in association with a plurality of location based jurisdiction definitions store a second memory structure to hold identifiers of one or more trusted location sources validate or invalidate received location data nominally representative of a location at which communication hardware of the wireless device is located wherein validate the received location data includes verify that the received location data was provided by a location source that corresponds to at least one of the stored trusted location source identifiers and cause in response to validation of the received location data provision of a jurisdiction identifier corresponding to a location based jurisdiction definition that includes the received location data to the communication hardware of the wireless device.

Example 21 may include the subject matter of Example 20 and may further have instructions thereon that in response to execution of the instructions by the one or more processing devices of the wireless device cause the wireless device to in response to invalidation of the received location data identify a designated invalid jurisdiction identifier and cause provision of the invalid jurisdiction identifier to the communication hardware.

Example 22 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 20 21 and may further specify that the location source is a global navigation satellite system device.

Example 23 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 20 22 and may further specify that the location source is a service of an operating system of the wireless device.

Example 24 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 20 23 and may further specify that the location source is a system service of the wireless device.

Example 25 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 20 24 and may further specify that the plurality of jurisdiction identifiers correspond to a plurality of different countries.

Example 26 is a method for adaptive communication in a wireless device including storing a first memory structure to hold a plurality of identifiers of a corresponding plurality of jurisdictions a plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints and associations between individual ones of the plurality of jurisdiction identifiers and respective individual ones of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints validating a received jurisdiction identifier nominally representative of a jurisdiction in which communication hardware of the wireless device is located wherein validating the received jurisdiction identifier includes determining that the received jurisdiction identifier corresponds to one of the stored plurality of jurisdiction identifiers and applying in response to validation of the received jurisdiction identifier a stored set of wireless communication operation constraints corresponding to the received jurisdiction identifier.

Example 27 may include the subject matter of Example 26 and may further include storing a second memory structure to hold identifiers of one or more trusted location providers wherein validating the received jurisdiction identifier includes verifying that the received jurisdiction identifier was provided by a location provider that corresponds to at least one of the one or more stored trusted location provider identifiers.

Example 28 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 26 27 and may further specify that at least one of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints includes an allowed channel of operation a prohibited channel of operation a maximal allowed transmit power or an allowed spectral mask.

Example 29 is a method for adaptive communication in a wireless device including storing a first memory structure to hold a plurality of identifiers of a corresponding plurality of jurisdictions a plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints and associations between individual ones of the plurality of jurisdiction identifiers and respective individual ones of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints invalidating a received jurisdiction identifier nominally representative of a jurisdiction in which communication hardware of the wireless device is located and applying in response to invalidation of the received jurisdiction identifier a default set of stored wireless communication operation constraints.

Example 30 may include the subject matter of Example 29 and may further specify that the default set of wireless communication operation constraints satisfies all of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints.

Example 31 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 29 30 and may further specify that invalidating the received jurisdiction identifier includes determining that the received jurisdiction identifier does not correspond to one of the stored plurality of jurisdiction identifiers.

Example 32 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 29 31 and may further specify that invalidating the received jurisdiction identifier includes failing to verify that the received jurisdiction identifier was provided by a location provider that corresponds to at least one of the one or more stored trusted location provider identifier.

Example 33 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 29 32 and may further specify that invalidating the received jurisdiction identifier includes determining that the received jurisdiction identifier corresponds to an invalid jurisdiction identifier included in the stored plurality of jurisdiction identifiers.

Example 34 is a method for adaptive communication in a wireless device including storing a first memory structure to hold a plurality of identifiers of a corresponding plurality of jurisdictions in association with a plurality of location based jurisdiction definitions and storing a second memory structure to hold identifiers of one or more trusted location sources validating received location data nominally representative of a location at which communication hardware of the wireless device is located wherein validating the received location data includes verifying that the received location data was provided by a location source that corresponds to at least one of the stored trusted location source identifiers and causing provision of a jurisdiction identifier corresponding to a location based jurisdiction definition that includes the received location data to the communication hardware of the wireless device.

Example 35 may include the subject matter of Example 34 and may further specify that the received location data includes a timestamp and validating the received location data includes determining that the timestamp falls within a predetermined time window of a current time.

Example 36 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 34 35 and may further specify that the received location data includes an indicator of a location accuracy and validating the received location data includes determining that the location accuracy is within a predetermined range.

Example 37 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 34 36 and may further include encrypting or signing the jurisdiction identifier prior to provision to the communication hardware.

Example 38 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 34 37 and may further specify that the location data include global geolocation coordinates.

Example 39 is a method for adaptive communication in a wireless device including storing a first memory structure to hold a plurality of identifiers of a corresponding plurality of jurisdictions in association with a plurality of location based jurisdiction definitions and storing a second memory structure to hold identifiers of one or more trusted location sources invalidating received location data nominally representative of a location at which communication hardware of the wireless device is located and in response to invalidating the received location data identifying a designated invalid jurisdiction identifier and causing provision of the invalid jurisdiction identifier to the communication hardware of the wireless device.

Example 40 is one or more computer readable storage media having instructions thereon that in response to execution of the instructions by one or more processing devices of a wireless device cause the wireless device to perform the method of any of Examples 26 39.

Example 41 is a wireless device for adaptive communication including means for storing a first memory structure to hold a plurality of identifiers of a corresponding plurality of jurisdictions a plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints and associations between individual ones of the plurality of jurisdiction identifiers and respective individual ones of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints means for validating a received jurisdiction identifier nominally representative of a jurisdiction in which communication hardware of the wireless device is located wherein the means for validating the received jurisdiction identifier includes means for determining that the received jurisdiction identifier corresponds to one of the stored plurality of jurisdiction identifiers and means for applying in response to validation of the received jurisdiction identifier a stored set of wireless communication operation constraints corresponding to the received jurisdiction identifier.

Example 42 may include the subject matter of Example 41 and may further include means for storing a second memory structure to hold identifiers of one or more trusted location providers wherein the means for validating the received jurisdiction identifier includes means for verifying that the received jurisdiction identifier was provided by a location provider that corresponds to at least one of the one or more stored trusted location provider identifiers.

Example 43 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 41 42 and may further specify that at least one of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints includes an allowed channel of operation a prohibited channel of operation a maximal allowed transmit power or an allowed spectral mask.

Example 44 is a wireless device for adaptive communication including means for storing a first memory structure to hold a plurality of identifiers of a corresponding plurality of jurisdictions a plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints and associations between individual ones of the plurality of jurisdiction identifiers and respective individual ones of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints means for invalidating a received jurisdiction identifier nominally representative of a jurisdiction in which communication hardware of the wireless device is located and means for applying in response to invalidation of the received jurisdiction identifier a default set of stored wireless communication operation constraints.

Example 45 may include the subject matter of Example 44 and may further specify that the default set of wireless communication operation constraints satisfies all of the plurality of sets of wireless communication operation constraints.

Example 46 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 44 45 and may further specify that the means for invalidating the received jurisdiction identifier includes means for determining that the received jurisdiction identifier does not correspond to one of the stored plurality of jurisdiction identifiers.

Example 47 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 44 46 and may further specify that the means for invalidating the received jurisdiction identifier includes means for failing to verify that the received jurisdiction identifier was provided by a location provider that corresponds to at least one of the one or more stored trusted location provider identifier.

Example 48 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 44 47 and may further specify that the means for invalidating the received jurisdiction identifier includes means for determining that the received jurisdiction identifier corresponds to an invalid jurisdiction identifier included in the stored plurality of jurisdiction identifiers.

Example 49 is a wireless device for adaptive communication including means for storing a first memory structure to hold a plurality of identifiers of a corresponding plurality of jurisdictions in association with a plurality of location based jurisdiction definitions and storing a second memory structure to hold identifiers of one or more trusted location sources means for validating received location data nominally representative of a location at which communication hardware of the wireless device is located wherein the means for validating the received location data includes means for verifying that the received location data was provided by a location source that corresponds to at least one of the stored trusted location source identifiers and means for causing provision of a jurisdiction identifier corresponding to a location based jurisdiction definition that includes the received location data to the communication hardware of the wireless device.

Example 50 may include the subject matter of Example 49 and may further specify that the received location data includes a timestamp and the means for validating the received location data includes means for determining that the timestamp falls within a predetermined time window of a current time.

Example 51 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 49 50 and may further specify that the received location data includes an indicator of a location accuracy and the means for validating the received location data includes determining that the location accuracy is within a predetermined range.

Example 52 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 49 51 and may further include means for encrypting or signing the jurisdiction identifier prior to provision to the communication hardware.

Example 53 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 49 52 and may further specify that the location data include global geolocation coordinates.

Example 54 is a system for adaptive communication in a wireless device including means for storing a first memory structure to hold a plurality of identifiers of a corresponding plurality of jurisdictions in association with a plurality of location based jurisdiction definitions and means for storing a second memory structure to hold identifiers of one or more trusted location sources means for invalidating received location data nominally representative of a location at which communication hardware of the wireless device is located means for identifying in response to invalidating the received location data a designated invalid jurisdiction identifier and means for causing provision of the invalid jurisdiction identifier to the communication hardware of the wireless device.

Example 55 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 15 19 and may further include instructions thereon that in response to execution of the instructions by the one or more processing devices of the wireless device cause the wireless device to store a third memory structure to hold a plurality of identifiers of a corresponding plurality of jurisdictions in association with a plurality of location based jurisdiction definitions store a fourth memory structure to hold identifiers of one or more trusted location sources validate or invalidate received location data nominally representative of a location at which communication hardware of the wireless device is located wherein validate the received location data comprises verify that the received location data was provided by a location source that corresponds to at least one of the stored trusted location source identifiers and cause in response to validation of the received location data provision of a jurisdiction identifier corresponding to a location based jurisdiction definition that includes the received location data to the communication hardware of the wireless device.

Example 56 may include the subject matter of Example 55 and may further include instructions thereon that in response to execution of the instructions by the one or more processing devices of the wireless device cause the wireless device to in response to invalidation of the received location data identify a designated invalid jurisdiction identifier and cause provision of the invalid jurisdiction identifier to the communication hardware.

Example 57 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 55 56 and may further specify that the location source is a global navigation satellite system device.

Example 58 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 55 57 and may further specify that the location source is a service of an operating system of the wireless device.

Example 59 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 55 58 and may further specify that the location source is a system service of the wireless device.

Example 60 may include the subject matter of any of Examples 55 59 and may further specify that the plurality of jurisdiction identifiers correspond to a plurality of different countries.

