---

title: Cloud-based device twinning
abstract: A network-based service is utilized to facilitate twinning of two or more communication devices associated with a subscriber account. Incoming communication is intercepted by a communication device and forwarded to a network server, which in turn transmits the incoming communication to the multiple twinned devices. In addition, identifier data associated with outgoing communication is replaced with a primary identifier (e.g., customer telephone number (CTN)) of a user's primary device or a common identifier (e.g., a mobile one number (MON)) assigned to devices associated with the user's subscriber account. Communication devices can be temporarily twinned for a defined time period, during which a common bill can be generated for the twinned devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602989&OS=09602989&RS=09602989
owner: AT&T MOBILITY II LLC
number: 09602989
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141107
---
As wearable devices begin to proliferate it is common for consumers to own multiple mobile devices. For example consumers can own a primary device such as a mobile phone and a secondary device such as a smart watch both having respective subscriber identity modules SIMs with associated telephone numbers. Typically it can get difficult to remember multiple telephone numbers associated with the different mobile devices.

Further conventionally primary devices and wearable devices communicate via different peer to peer P2P networks such as Bluetooth and or near field communication NFC . Using P2P protocols notifications calls and or messages received at a primary device can be simply forwarded to the wearable device. Additionally replies to the forwarded incoming calls messages can be directly sent to the primary device from the wearable device via the P2P networks for example using a keypad touch screen and or voice commands.

One or more embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It may be evident however that the various embodiments can be practiced without these specific details e.g. without applying to any particular networked environment or standard. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the embodiments in additional detail.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface node server or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution computer executable instruction s a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application and or API components.

Further the various embodiments can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement one or more aspects of the disclosed subject matter. An article of manufacture can encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or computer readable storage communications media. For example computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the various embodiments.

In addition the word example or exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment communication device mobile device mobile station mobile equipment wearable device primary device secondary device subscriber device and similar terminology refer to a wired or wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wired or wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows. Furthermore the terms user subscriber consumer customer and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

As an example aspects or features of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited in substantially any wired or wireless communication technology e.g. Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS WiFi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA ZigBee or another IEEE 802.XX technology. Additionally substantially all aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited in legacy e.g. wireline telecommunication technologies and or future telecommunication technologies e.g. 5G whitespace etc. .

Systems and methods disclosed herein relate to a cloud service that enables twinning of multiple communication devices associated with a subscriber account. The term twinning as used herein refers to replicating communications e.g. transmission reception of data on two or more communication devices. For example when an incoming communication call message and or data is directed to a communication device the notification for the incoming communication will be transmitted to the communication device as well as its twinned communication device simultaneously or substantially simultaneously such that the incoming communication can be received via either of the communication devices. Further systems and methods disclosed herein enable users to utilize a primary identifier e.g. telephone number to share voice and or text messages and on multiple communication devices with individual subscriber identity modules SIMs associated with their subscriber account. As an example the primary identifier can be an identifier e.g. customer telephone number CTN of a user s primary device or can be a common identifier e.g. a mobile one number MON assigned to multiple secondary devices associated with the user s subscriber account. In one aspect incoming communication is intercepted by the primary device and forwarded to a cloud service which in turn transmits the incoming communication to the multiple secondary devices.

Referring initially to there illustrated is an example system that provides cloud based twinning of subscriber devices according to one or more aspects of the disclosed subject matter. System includes two or more user equipment UEs wherein N is most any integer greater than 1 associated with e.g. owned by leased by rented by used by etc. a common subscriber. As an example the UEs can include most any electronic communication devices such as but not limited to most any consumer electronic device for example a tablet computer a cellular phone a personal computer a personal digital assistant PDA a smart phone a laptop a wearable device e.g. smart watch smart glasses activity fitness tracker etc. a digital media player a digital camera a content streaming player dongle a digital set top box a gaming system etc. Further the UEs can also include LTE based devices such as but not limited to most any home or commercial appliance that includes an LTE radio and or a connected vehicle e.g. connected car boat plane etc. . It can be noted that UEs can be mobile have limited mobility and or be stationary. In one example UEs can include a multi band multi mode and or multi radio device. UEs can be coupled to a communication network e.g. cellular network WiFi network etc. via one or more radio access networks RANs not shown .

System utilizes a cloud network to facilitate device twinning of UEs . As an example a cloud can include resources e.g. processing resource s data storage resource s etc. that can reside on premise or off premise at a service provider location. Moreover the cloud can be but is not limited to a public cloud a private cloud an inter cloud or a hybrid cloud. In one aspect network server s can be part of the cloud. In one aspect UEs can include respective subscriber identity modules SIMs that are employed to authenticate register and couple the UEs with the communication network . Moreover the SIMs can store respective unique identifiers assigned to the UEs such as but not limited to customer telephone numbers CTNs Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Numbers MSISDNs International mobile station equipment identity IMEI etc. As the number of devices associated with a common subscriber account increase the number of identifiers e.g. CTNs that a user and or his friends family need to remember recognize increases. System via network server s allows the user and or his friends family to remember recognize a single primary identifier e.g. primary telephone number and facilitates routing of a call or message to multiple communication devices associated with the user s subscriber account. Accordingly system enables utilization of one telephone number for all or a selected set of a user s devices. Moreover when UEs are twinned and communication data e.g. voice video calls text messages application data etc. directed to a first unique identifier associated with a first UE e.g. UE is received the communication data can be directed to the remaining UEs e.g. UEs via the network server s .

According to an embodiment UEs can include respective twinning components that can be utilized to intercept the communication data received by the UEs and or that is to be transmitted from the UEs and forward the communication data to the network server s via the communication network . In one aspect the network server s can include an In App messaging application programming interface API and or a cloud voice API that facilitates the routing of text messages and or voice calls respectively. As an example for incoming communication data the network server s can transmit the communication data to all the twinned devices e.g. UEs such that the communication data can be accessed by the user via any one or more of the devices e.g. UEs . As another example for outgoing communication data the network server s can transmit the communication data to the destination device using a primary identifier selected from the respective unique identifiers assigned to the twinned UEs . In one aspect the twinning components can include but are not limited to twinning applications that are installed on UEs for example during provisioning during manufacturing via over the air signaling on demand etc.

Referring now to there illustrated is an example system for configuration of twinned devices in accordance with an aspect of the subject disclosure. In one aspect system can enable users to manage e.g. activate and or deactivate twinning of their devices. It is noted that the network server s can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to system .

In one aspect the network server s can include a configuration component that can be employed for management of twinned devices associated with a user account. Moreover the configuration component can receive user input that is indicative of associating or disassociating two or more devices e.g. UEs of the user. As an example the user input can be received from one or more of the devices e.g. UEs via an application downloaded on and or installed on the device and or via a website web server accessed by the user e.g. via an account management webpage . It is noted that the user input can be received at most any time such as but not limited to on demand on purchase lease rent of a new device at a specified time in response to detection of an event periodically on request etc. Additionally or optionally the configuration component can verify that the user or user device is authorized to configure the twinned devices for example by employing most any authentication techniques e.g. passwords credentials pins biometric data etc. 

According to an aspect the user input can specify identifier data indicative of devices for which that twinning is to be initiated or discontinued. For example the identifier data can include telephone numbers e.g. CTNs associated with the devices. Additionally or optionally the user input can specify timing data indicative of a time period for which the devices are to be twinned or twinning is to be discontinued . As an example if a user has rented a device for a specified time period the user can request that the device be twinned with his primary device only for the duration of the time period. In another example if the user has loaned out his secondary device that is twinned to his primary device the user can request that the secondary device be disassociated from his primary device e.g. the request can be sent on initiating the loan and or prior to loaning the secondary device . Moreover in this example scenario the secondary device be disassociated the primary device for the duration of the loan period. The configuration component can store this user input in data store as subscriber records . It is noted that the data store can include volatile memory s or nonvolatile memory s or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory s . Examples of suitable types of volatile and non volatile memory are described below with reference to . The memory e.g. data stores databases of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory. Although depicted as residing completely within the network server s it is noted that the data store can reside partially within the network server s and or be locally or remotely coupled to the network server s .

Further the user input can also specify policies and or rules for initiation or disconnection of twinning and accordingly the configuration component can populate the subscriber records and or store the policies and or rules in the data store as user preferences . For example the policies rules can be based on geographical locations of UEs current time or date date type of communication e.g. forward only voice calls but not text messages etc. source or destination devices from to which communications are received directed message priority message size distance between the twinned UEs etc. Additionally or optionally the user input can also specify a telephone number e.g. CTN that is to be employed while routing outgoing communications from the user s devices e.g. UEs . For example the telephone number can be a number e.g. CTN associated with the user s primary device or can be the telephone number of the device that initiated the communication. Furthermore in one example the user input can be a predefined text code e.g. 12 11 etc. that can activate or deactivate twinning of all devices associated with a subscriber account. Moreover the text code can be sent as a text message e.g. short message service SMS message multimedia messaging service MMS message instant message email etc. from one of the user s devices e.g. UEs to a number associated with the cloud service network server s . Additionally the configuration component can also receive operator preferences from one or more network devices not shown of the communication network e.g. communication network that can be stored in the data store . The network server s can analyze the information stored within the data store to facilitate routing of communication directed to received from the user s devices e.g. UEs .

Referring now to there illustrated is an example system that facilitates temporary twinning of a leased rented device according to an aspect of the subject disclosure. As an example system can be utilized for linking to a subscriber account mobile connected emerging devices which are typically used by the user for a pre determined period of time e.g. lease term rental time period loan duration etc. . The mobile connected emerging devices can include most any UE such as but is not limited to a connected vehicle rental skis equipment etc. Typically the user may not own the mobile connected emerging device but can rent lease and or borrow the mobile connected emerging device for a specified time period. System enables the user and or device owner provider to temporarily twin the mobile connected emerging device with the user s primary devices during the specific period. In an example the twinning can facilitate determination of a common bill for the usage of the mobile connected emerging device and the primary devices. It is noted that the network server s the configuration component the data store the subscriber records the user preferences and the operator preferences can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to systems and .

In one aspect the configuration component can receive lessor input that is indicative of associating or disassociating two or more devices e.g. UEs from a lessor and or renter owner business entity etc. of the leased communication device. Moreover the lessor input can be received from one or more devices via an application downloaded on and or installed on the devices or via a website web server accessed by the lessor e.g. via an account management webpage . It is noted that the lessor input can be received at most any time such as but not limited to on demand on purchase lease rent of a new device at a specified time in response to detection of an event periodically on request etc. In an example scenario wherein a user rents a connected car the car rental company with the user s consent can notify the user s primary device carrier network with the user s primary account phone number. The notification can be directed through the carrier network to the configuration component which in turn can instruct an authorization component to verify the user s consent to twin the user s primary device with the connected car. The authorization component can utilize various authorization techniques to confirm the user s consent. For example the authorization component can transmit a consent confirmation request to the lessee s UE for example the user s primary device e.g. UEs . Moreover the consent confirmation request can be transmitted via one or more text messages e.g. SMS message MMS message instant message email etc. . If confirmation is not received e.g. within a defined time period or is rejected the configuration component can reject block the lessor input and deny twinning of devices. Alternatively if confirmation e.g. acknowledgement is received from the lessee s UE the configuration component can twin the leased device with the user s primary device and or one or more secondary devices associated with the user s account .

According to an aspect the lessor input can specify identifier data indicative of devices for which that twinning is to be initiated or discontinued. For example the identifier data can include telephone numbers e.g. CTNs associated with the rental device connected car skiing gear etc. . Additionally or optionally the lessor input can specify timing data indicative of a time period for which the devices are to be twinned or twinning is to be discontinued . As an example if a user has rented a device for a specified time period the lessor can request that the device be twinned with the user s primary device only during that time period. The configuration component can store this lessor input in data store as subscriber records . Further the lessor input can also specify policies and or rules for initiation or disconnection of twinning and accordingly the configuration component can populate the subscriber records and or store the policies and or rules in the data store as lessor preferences . The network server s can analyze the information stored within the data store to facilitate routing of communication directed to received from the user s devices including the leased device.

At the end of the rental period or termination of the lease contract configuration component can receive a device un twinning request from the lessor via the lessor input . The authorization component can verify the user s content to un twin the user s primary device and the leased device. For example the authorization component can transmit a consent confirmation request to the lessee s UE for example the user s primary device e.g. UEs . Moreover the consent confirmation request can be transmitted via one or more text messages e.g. a SMS message a MMS message an instant message email etc. . If confirmation is not received e.g. within a defined time period or is rejected the configuration component can reject block the lessor input and deny un twinning of devices. Alternatively if confirmation e.g. acknowledgement is received from the lessee s UE the configuration component can un twin the leased device from the user s primary device and or one or more secondary devices associated with the user s account .

Referring now to there illustrated is an example record that is employed to initiate twinning or un twinning of user devices in accordance with the subject embodiments. As an example record can be generated by the configuration component e.g. based on the user input and or the lessor input and stored in data store e.g. as a subscriber record . Although information regarding only two UEs e.g. a primary UE and a secondary UE are depicted in the record it is noted that the subject specification is not limited to two UEs and multiple UEs can be associated with a subscriber account. In this example scenario the primary UE is assigned a CTN and the secondary UE is assigned a CTN . Record depicts the rules associated with routing communication data to from the primary UE and or secondary UE.

As an example when both the primary and secondary UEs are switched on and twinning has been activated e.g. twinning state is ON incoming communication directed to either CTN e.g. CTN or CTN is intercepted by the UE and forwarded e.g. by the network server simultaneously or substantially simultaneously to both the primary and secondary UEs. Further CTN that is assigned to the primary UE can be utilized for outgoing communication received from the secondary UE. Alternatively when both the primary and secondary UEs are switched on and twinning has been deactivated e.g. twinning state is OFF incoming communication directed to CTN is routed e.g. by the network server only to the primary UE while incoming communication directed to CTN is routed e.g. by the network server only to the secondary UE. Since the UEs are un twinned outgoing communication received from the secondary UE is forwarded e.g. by the network server to the destination device with the CTN that is assigned to the secondary device.

In another example when the primary UE is switched off the secondary UE is switched on and twinning has been activated e.g. twinning state is ON incoming communication directed to either CTN e.g. CTN or CTN is intercepted and forwarded e.g. by the network server to the secondary UE. Further CTN that is assigned to the primary UE can be utilized for outgoing communication received from the secondary UE. Alternatively when the primary UE is switched off the secondary UE is switched on and twinning has been deactivated e.g. twinning state is OFF incoming communication directed to CTN is routed e.g. by the network server to the primary UE s voicemail while incoming communication directed to CTN is routed e.g. by the network server only to the secondary UE. Since the devices are un twinned outgoing communication received from the secondary UE is forwarded e.g. by the network server to the destination device with the CTN that is assigned to the secondary device.

In yet another example when the primary UE is switched on the secondary UE is switched off and twinning has been activated e.g. twinning state is ON incoming communication directed to either CTN e.g. CTN or CTN is intercepted and forwarded e.g. by the network server to the primary UE. Alternatively when the primary UE is switched on the secondary UE is switched off and twinning has been deactivated e.g. twinning state is OFF incoming communication directed to CTN is routed e.g. by the network server only to the primary UE while incoming communication directed to CTN is routed e.g. by the network server to the secondary UE s voicemail.

In this example scenario UE can be considered as the user s primary device e.g. cell phone having a first CTN and UE can be considered as the user s secondary device e.g. wearable device connected car tablet computer etc. having a disparate second CTN . When the UEs are twinned e.g. by employing the configuration component communication data e.g. voice video calls text messages application data etc. transmitted by a source device e.g. another UE content server web server etc. and directed to one of the CTNs e.g. CTN or CTN can be rerouted to both the UEs . Alternatively when the UEs are un twinned e.g. by employing the configuration component the communication data transmitted from the source device and directed to CTN is routed to and presented via the UE while the communication data transmitted from the source device and directed to CTN is routed to and presented via the UE .

As an example if the source device initiates a call to UE by employing CTN the call data is directed to the UE via the communication network and is intercepted by the twinning component . Prior to or at most any time the call notification being provided to the user via UE the twinning component transmits the call data to the network server s . In one aspect a data reception component receives the call data and analyses the call data along with data stored in the data store e.g. subscriber records user preferences operator preferences lessor preferences etc. . Based on the analysis a data transfer component can transmit the call data to the appropriate devices. If determined by during the analysis that the UEs are twinned and or other preference criterion is satisfied the call data can be routed simultaneously or substantially simultaneously to both UEs and accordingly the call notification e.g. ring can be presented via the UEs simultaneously or substantially simultaneously . If the user decides to answer the call on UE the call is dropped on UE or if the user decides to answer the call on UE the call is dropped on UE . However if determined during the analysis that the UEs are not twinned and or other preference criterion is not satisfied the call data can be routed only to UE . A similar procedure is performed when the source device initiates a call to UE by employing CTN wherein the twinning component intercepts the received call before the call notification is presented on UE and transmits the call data to the data reception component . The data reception component analyses the call data along with data stored in the data store and the data transfer component transmit the call data to the appropriate devices e.g. UEs .

According to an embodiment during outgoing communications e.g. voice video calls text messages application data etc. from the secondary UE to a destination device e.g. another UE content server web server etc. the twinning component intercepts the outgoing communications and redirects the communication data to the network server s . The data reception component receives the communication data and analyzes the received data along with data stored in the data store e.g. subscriber records user preferences operator preferences lessor preferences etc. Based on the analysis the data transfer component can mask and or modify the identifier e.g. CTN of UE and transmit the communication data to the destination device via the communication network . For example if determined by during the analysis that the UEs are twinned the CTN of UE can be replaced with CTN of UE or a MON assigned to the subscriber account and the data transfer component can transmit the communication data with the modified CTN to the destination device . However if determined by during the analysis that the UEs are not twinned the data transfer component can transmit the communication data with the original CTN CTN to the destination device . In another example embodiment the twinning component can reroute intercepted outgoing communications directly to the primary UE for example via the communication network and or one or more peer to peer network links e.g. Bluetooth WiFi direct near field communication NFC etc. . Further the twinning component of the UE can replace the identifier e.g. CTN of UE received in the communication data with the identifier e.g. CTN of UE and transmit the communication data to the destination device via the communication network . Accordingly a single CTN can be utilized for multiple twinned UEs associated with a common subscriber account to simplify billing and or caller identification.

Referring now to there illustrated is an example system that facilitates billing for twinned devices according to one or more aspects of the disclosed subject matter. It can be noted that the UEs the communication network and the network server s can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to systems . In one aspect the billing component can monitor communications transmitted via the communication network . Based on the various factors such as but not limited to destination device identifier source device identifier bandwidth speed amount of data transmitted time of day etc. the billing component can apply operator defined charges and generate a bill for network usage. Moreover for twinned devices that utilize the same identifier e.g. primary CTN or MON a common bill for network usage by the multiple twinned devices can be generated by the billing component . Moreover for temporarily utilized e.g. rented leased borrowed devices such as but not limited to a smart watch e.g. UE and or a connected car e.g. UE the devices can be twinned to the user s primary UE for a defined time period and accordingly network usage charges associated with the temporarily utilized devices can be provided to the user in a common bill.

A classifier can be a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. In the case of communication systems for example attributes can be information received from UEs and the classes can be categories or areas of interest e.g. levels of priorities . A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which the hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein can also be inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As will be readily appreciated from the subject specification an example embodiment can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. via a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. via observing access point UE behavior user operator preferences or policies historical information receiving extrinsic data mobility performance data etc. . For example SVMs can be configured via a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s of AI component can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to determining according to a predetermined criteria when two or more devices are to be twinned un twinned a time period during which the two or more devices are twinned a common identifier e.g. CTN and or MON that is to be utilized during outgoing communication from the twinned devices routing of communication data to the twinned devices etc. The criteria can include but is not limited to historical patterns and or trends user preferences service provider preferences and or policies location of the twinned devices current time day network load traffic billing preferences and the like.

Referring now to illustrated is an example method that facilitates routing of incoming communication data for twinned devices according to an aspect of the subject disclosure. As an example method can be implemented by one or more network devices of a communication network e.g. a cellular network . The twinned devices can have independent identifiers for example CTNs that can be utilized by a source device to direct communication e.g. voice video calls text messages application data etc. to one of the twinned devices. When incoming communication is received at a first UE a twinning application installed on the first UE can intercept the communication data and transfer the communication data to a network device e.g. prior to presenting the communication data and or notification of the communication data . At the incoming communication data directed to the first UE can be received from the first UE. At it can be determined that the first UE is twinned with a second UE. As an example the twinning data can be configured by the user of the UEs and or lessor renter owner of the second UE . The twinning data can be stored in subscriber records within a network data store along with user preferences operator preferences etc. In one example the data stored within the network data store can be analyzed to determine routing preferences for the incoming communication data. At based on an analysis of the data stored within the network data store the communication data can be transmitted to both the first and the second UEs. Moreover a notification for the incoming communication data can be presented on the first and the second UEs simultaneously or substantially simultaneously .

To provide further context for various aspects of the subject specification illustrate respectively a block diagram of an example user equipment that facilitates cloud based device twinning and a wireless communication environment with associated components for operation and or management of cloud based device twinning in accordance with aspects described herein.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a UE that facilitates cloud based device twinning in accordance with the subject specification. Moreover the UE can be substantially similar to and include functionality associated with UE lessee UE source device and or destination device described herein. In one aspect the UE can include a processor for controlling all onboard operations and processes. A memory can interface to the processor for storage of data and one or more applications being executed by the processor . A communications component can interface to the processor to facilitate wired wireless communication with external systems e.g. via communication network . The communications component can interface to a location component e.g. GPS transceiver that can facilitate location detection of the UE .

The UE can include a display e.g. screen and or touch screen for displaying received content and or content to be transferred and or for displaying text information related to operating and using the device features. A serial I O interface is provided in communication with the processor to facilitate serial communication e.g. USB and or IEEE 1394 via a hardwire connection. Audio capabilities are provided with an audio I O component which can include a speaker for the output of audio signals related to for example recorded data or telephony voice data and a microphone for inputting voice signals for recording and or telephone conversations.

Further the UE can include a slot interface for accommodating a subscriber identity module SIM . Moreover the SIM can be substantially similar to and include functionality associated with SIMs . A unique CTN is associated with the SIM that can be utilized as a device identifier for UE . Firmware is also provided to store and provide to the processor startup and operational data. The UE can also include an image capture component such as a camera and or a video decoder for decoding encoded multimedia content. Further the UE can include a power source in the form of batteries which power source interfaces to an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component . In addition the UE can include the twinning component which can be stored in memory and or implemented by an application . The twinning component is substantially similar to twinning components can include respective functionality as more fully described herein for example with regard to systems and .

The connection of the MS to the evolved packet core EPC network is subsequent to an authentication for example a SIM based authentication between the MS and the evolved packet core EPC network. In one aspect the MME provides authentication of the MS by interacting with the HSS . The HSS contains a subscriber profile and keeps track of which core network node is currently handling the subscriber. It also supports subscriber authentication and authorization functions AAA . In networks with more than one HSS a subscriber location function provides information on the HSS that contains the profile of a given subscriber.

As an example the eNB can host a PHYsical PHY Medium Access Control MAC Radio Link Control RLC and Packet Data Control Protocol PDCP layers that include the functionality of user plane header compression and encryption. In addition the eNB can implement at least in part Radio Resource Control RRC functionality e.g. radio resource management admission control scheduling cell information broadcast etc. . The eNB can be coupled to a serving gateway SGW that facilitates routing of user data packets and serves as a local mobility anchor for data bearers when the MS moves between eNBs. In addition the SGW can act as an anchor for mobility between LTE and other 3GPP technologies GPRS UMTS etc. . When MS is in an idle state the SGW terminates a downlink DL data path and triggers paging when DL data arrives for the MS . Further the SGW can perform various administrative functions in the visited network such as collecting information for charging and lawful interception.

In one aspect the SGW can be coupled to a Packet Data Network Gateway PDN GW that provides connectivity between the MS and external packet data networks such as IP service s network s . Moreover the PDN GW is a point of exit and entry of traffic for the MS . It is noted that the MS can have simultaneous connectivity with more than one PDN GW not shown for accessing multiple PDNs.

The PDN GW performs IP address allocation for the MS as well as QoS enforcement and implements flow based charging according to rules from a Policy Control and Charging Rules Function PCRF . The PCRF can facilitate policy control decision making and control flow based charging functionalities in a Policy Control Enforcement Function PCEF which resides in the PDN GW . The PCRF can store data e.g. QoS class identifier and or bit rates that facilitates QoS authorization of data flows within the PCEF. In one aspect the PDN GW can facilitate filtering of downlink user IP packets into the different QoS based bearers and perform policy enforcement packet filtering for each user charging support lawful interception and packet screening. Further the PDN GW acts as the anchor for mobility between 3GPP and non 3GPP technologies such as WiMAX and 3GPP2 CDMA X and EvDO . Although a LTE network architecture is described and illustrated herein it is noted that most any communication network architecture can be utilized to implement the disclosed embodiments.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed communication architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the specification can be implemented. While the specification has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that can run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the specification also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices. The illustrated aspects of the specification can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various aspects of the specification includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . As an example the component s server s equipment system s and or device s e.g. UEs network server s SIMs twinning component configuration component authorization component lessee UE source device data reception component data transfer component destination device billing component AI component UE MS eNB MME SGW PDN GW PCRF etc. disclosed herein with respect to system and can each include at least a portion of the computer . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures can also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD 1314 which internal hard disk drive can also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject disclosure.

The drives and their associated computer readable storage media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and storage media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable storage media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of storage media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like can also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such storage media can contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the specification.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the specification can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and or a pointing device such as a mouse or a touchscreen or touchpad not illustrated . These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an infrared IR interface etc. A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter .

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which can connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter can facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which can also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. desktop and or portable computer server communications satellite etc. This includes at least WiFi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

WiFi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. WiFi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. WiFi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A WiFi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . WiFi networks operate in the unlicensed 5 GHz radio band at an 54 Mbps 802.11a data rate and or a 2.4 GHz radio band at an 11 Mbps 802.11b an 54 Mbps 802.11g data rate or up to an 600 Mbps 802.11n data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory in a single machine or multiple machines. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit a state machine an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a programmable gate array PGA including a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units. One or more processors can be utilized in supporting a virtualized computing environment. The virtualized computing environment may support one or more virtual machines representing computers servers or other computing devices. In such virtualized virtual machines components such as processors and storage devices may be virtualized or logically represented. In an aspect when a processor executes instructions to perform operations this could include the processor performing the operations directly and or facilitating directing or cooperating with another device or component to perform the operations

In the subject specification terms such as data store data storage database cache and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components or computer readable storage media described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

What has been described above includes examples of the present specification. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the present specification but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the present specification are possible. Accordingly the present specification is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

