---

title: System for supporting collaborative activity
abstract: A system includes a processor which has access to a representation of model of activity, which includes workspaces. Each workspace includes domain hierarchies for representing an organizational structure of the collaborating users using the system, and initiatives hierarchies representing process structures for accomplishing goals. An interface permits users to view and modify the workspaces for which the user has access. Each user can have different access permissions in different workspaces. The domain and initiative hierarchies provide two views of the workspace objects without duplicating resources. A resource is a collection of shared elements defined by the users that give users associated with the workspace access to information sources. Users can define knowledge boards for creating reports based on information fields of the resources. The knowledge board is associated with a resource template from which the resource is created.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08966445&OS=08966445&RS=08966445
owner: VirtualAgility Inc.
number: 08966445
owner_city: Alexandria
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140829
---
The present application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 168 599 to Ahlgren et al. System for Supporting Collaborative Activity filed Jun. 24 2011 now pending which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 939 250 to Ahlgren et al System for Supporting Collaborative Activity filed Nov. 13 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 082 201 issued Dec. 20 2011 which claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 858 241 filed Nov. 10 2006. These patent applications and patents are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present application is further related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 312 740 Processing Management Information filed May 14 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 095 413 issued Jan. 10 2012 which claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 60 133 152 Processing Management Information filed May 7 1999 and to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 765 424 System for Performing Collaborative Tasks filed Jan. 27 2004 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 312 740 and which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 698 160 on Apr. 13 2010 and to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 297 058 Managing Collaborative Activity filed Jun. 5 2014 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 313 658 filed Dec. 7 2011 now pending which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 312 740. The present application hereby incorporates U.S. application Ser. Nos. 09 312 740 60 133 152 10 765 424 14 297 058 13 313 658 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 095 413 and 7 698 160 by reference for all permissible purposes.

This invention relates to systems for improving communication among people who are collaborating in the performance of a task.

Computers coupled to networks have made collaborative work easier than ever before. At the most fundamental level file sharing and email have eliminated the requirement that collaborators be in physical proximity to each other. The change tracking arrangements that are provided by most document processing systems further support collaborative work as do computer implemented scheduling and tracking systems. Integrated systems for collaborative work provide features such as file sharing email change tracking scheduling and tracking in a single package. A problem with these tools and integrated systems for collaborative work is that they are very general. It is up to the user to adapt them to his or her needs. To be sure a skilled user of a tool such as a spreadsheet can adapt the tool to almost any purpose but to do this extensive programming is required. Such programming requires a specialist and the result of the programming is often opaque to those who are not masters of the tool and of what is being represented. Indeed a general problem with tools that require extensive programming to adapt them to a user s needs is that the programming is usually done by a specialist who understand the tools or the system but not the nature of the collaboration and as is usual in such situations communication between the programming specialist and the users is usually difficult and sometimes impossible.

Another approach to collaborative work has been systems that are specialized for collaborative work in a particular special area such as bookkeeping. For example the Quickbooks small business accounting software provides a model of a small business as seen from the point of view of an accountant that the user of Quickbooks can customize for his or her own purposes. While the model of the small business that Quickbooks provides is very useful for accounting it has no relevance whatever to other aspects of the business.

Another approach is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 765 424 424 application . shows a diagram of a model as described in the 424 application. A number of collaborators 1 . . . n are organized into one or more collaborator groups 1 . . . m . A collaborator may belong to more than one group . The context in which the collaborators work is represented by a domain hierarchies 1 . . . k goal project hierarchies 1 . . . m and initiative hierarchies 1 . . . o .

Each goal project hierarchy has at its head a project or a goal. A goal may have other goals and projects as its children. A project may have other projects as its children but may not have a goal as a child. Any goal project domain or initiative may have one or more items of information associated with it as indicated by arrows . The information may include documents messages discussions reminders Web links and alerts. The ability to relate information directly to any kind of hierarchy entity is particularly useful when the information is global to the entire domain or initiative.

An initiative is not a member of any domain hierarchy or goal project hierarchy but is rather the root of an initiative hierarchy which may include sub initiatives and a single level of goals and or projects from any of the goal project hierarchies. A goal or project may belong to any number of initiatives. Information may be related to an initiative in the same way that it may be related to any hierarchy entity.

Access to domains goals and projects is by collaborator groups . A given collaborator group may have access to any combination of domains goals projects and initiatives in model . The kinds of access which a collaborator belonging to a particular group has to a particular domain goal project or initiative depend on the group s group type and the permissions which the group has for the particular domain goal project or initiative.

Collaborators with the proper permissions may modify not only the information associated with a goal project domain or initiative but may also modify the form of the respective hierarchy.

A limitation of the model is that it provides only one view of the hierarchies structure. This limits the usefulness of the model to more complex processes or organizations where multiple views of the hierarchies would be helpful.

It is thus an object of the present invention to overcome these limitations and to provide an improved system for collaborative work.

The invention provides a system for supporting arbitrary activities involving collaborating users. In one aspect the system includes a processor which has access to a representation of model of activity the model including a plurality of workspaces. Each workspace includes a plurality of workspace objects for representing an organizational structure of the collaborating users using the system and representing one or more process structures for accomplishing goals. The system further includes an interface to the system for the users the interface being provided by the processor and the interface permitting the users to view and modify the workspaces. Each user has access to one or more of the workspaces and each user can have different access permissions in different workspaces.

The workspace objects include a domain hierarchy representing the organizational structure of the users using the system and an initiatives hierarchy representing the process structures for accomplishing the goals. The domain hierarchy and the initiatives hierarchy provide the users two views of the workspace objects without a need to duplicate the workspace objects in the initiatives hierarchy.

The workspace objects include a plurality of resources associated with the domain hierarchy and the initiatives hierarchy. Each resource is a collection of shared elements defined by the users that give the users associated with the workspace access to information sources. The information sources can include a document local to a user to be uploaded into the system a text file created by the user using a text editor of the system links to access information or tools internally or externally to the system RSS Really Simple Syndication feeds and discussion topics.

In another aspect the system includes a processor which has access to a representation of model of activity the model includes a plurality of resources each resource including a collection of shared elements defined by the user that give the other users access to information sources and a knowledge board for creating reports based on data fields of the resources. The system further includes an interface to the system for the users the interface being provided by the processor and the interface permitting a user to view and modify the knowledge board.

In another aspect a processor which has access to a representation of model of activity the model includes a plurality of resource templates each resource template defining data fields to be created for a resource. The system further includes an interface to the system for the collaborators the interface being provided by the processor and the interface permitting a user to view one or more resource templates and to create the resource from the resource template the resource including a collection of shared elements defined by the user that give other users access to information sources.

Other objects and advantages will be apparent to those skilled in the arts to which the invention pertains upon perusal of the following Detailed Description and drawing wherein 

Reference numbers in the drawing have three or more digits the two right hand digits are reference numbers in the drawing indicated by the remaining digits. Thus an item with the reference number first appears as item in .

A system for supporting collaborative activity includes a processor and an interface that is provided to collaborators by the processor. The processor has access to a representation of a model of the activity. The form of the model is defined by the collaborators and the representation of the model provides access to information related to the activity. The interface permits a collaborator to perceive and modify the model s form and to perceive and modify the information to which the representation of the model provides access. The model is implemented using workspaces from which the user may access information and perform activities having to do with the collaboration. The workspaces are provided to users as part of a shared online collaboration software platform that connects people strategies technology and resources in a rapidly developed and deployable on line workspace.

Collaborating users can organize domains and initiatives into hierarchies and . A user can associate a resource with a domain a sub domain or another resource associated with a domain. Resources can be presented as many times as required within the initiative and therefore could be used in multiple scenarios without the need to be duplicated. The domain and initiatives hierarchies thus provide users with ability to view objects of information such as resources and or knowledge boards described below within an organization structure or an operational structure without need to duplicate the objects.

Domains initiatives and resources can be renamed by administrators to reflect the terminology used by their organization. For example a domain can be renamed as an organization or an agency an initiative can be renamed as an operation or a process and a resource can be renamed as a record.

Resources may be organized into resource hierarchies as shown by arrow and the resource hierarchies belong to domains which themselves may be hierarchically organized . A resource may have a domain as a parent but a domain cannot have a resource as a parent. A given resource may belong to only one domain . Generally though not necessarily the domain hierarchy reflects the organization chart of the collaboration. For example if the collaboration is a business there may be domains for manufacturing engineering sales accounting human resources and corporate management with sub domains within the domains for example a sub domain for hourly employees in human resources.

In addition to being related to a domain a resource may also be related to an initiative . Initiatives may form hierarchies . The navigation GUI for system permits the user to navigate to a resource either by means of the domain hierarchy or by means of the initiative hierarchy. Generally though not necessarily initiatives are created to deal with specific problems where the resources required to deal with the problem cut across domain lines. For example if the domains are set up as described in the foregoing example and the business has a quality control problem an initiative may be set up to deal with the quality control problem and may include resources from the manufacturing engineering and corporate management domains. Domains and initiatives thus give participants different perspectives on the resources needed for the collaboration.

Resource templates are global objects that define classes of resources as defined by a system administrator. They specify what types of information are associated with resources belong to the class defined by the resource template by defining the number and types of data fields associated with them. When a user creates a resource the user begins with a resource template. The fields of the resource template are filled in by the user when the resource is created or modified according to the domain or initiative the resource relates to.

In addition to viewing resources within a domain or initiative the resource template can be used to locate resources belonging to the class that the template defines. This location of resources is defined by users in knowledge boards or dashboards . When a user creates a knowledge board the user uses the resource template to associate resources belonging to the resource template s class with the knowledge board and to select what information from resources of the class will be displayed in the knowledge board. The relationship between the resource template and the resources created from the template are maintained in the system for the knowledge boards. A knowledge board is defined for a workspace but does not belong to any of the hierarchies. The navigation GUI lists the workspace s knowledge boards along with both the initiative and domain hierarchies. The users select the columns data fields in the resource template to display and filter by parameters such as specific text dates etc. These data fields are used to locate resources to which the template belongs and are then displayed in the knowledge board report in a table form.

The domains initiatives and resources are organized into a plurality of workspaces each of which provides a managed environment. The system gives each collaborator user access to one or more workspaces where a user may have different roles in different workspaces. The workspaces may be configured by non technical people. The components of a workspace include domains resources initiatives information sources and dashboards or knowledge boards . These are termed in the following as the workspace s objects. Preferably the system is implemented in a client server architecture. The system server stores the workspace and its objects as well as global objects such as users and resource templates. The client comprises a processor which ahs access to the system elements. Users access the system s elements through a GUI at the client. Users may have different kinds of access to the objects in a workspace. The workspace includes a navigation GUI as part of the online collaborative software platform that presents the content of its objects. A system administrator can create a unique workspace for a group of people assign local administration responsibilities and assign global resources from a global pool of resources. Users can be part of multiple workspaces and carry different access permissions. For example a specific user can be a user only in one workspace and have administrator rights in another. User access permissions are described further below.

In an exemplary embodiment information sources that can be related with a resource include documents text files links RSS Really Simple Syndication feeds and discussions. For documents already created and stored locally a user can select from his workstation or from any shared drive a document to add to a resource. The document is then physically copied and loaded into the system server and will reside on its file directory system. All documents loaded on the system are maintained for the life of the system. This enables users to upload and store documents relevant to the resource. To modify the document after its association with the resource a user checks out the document and downloads it from the server to the client for editing. When the editing s done the user uploads the modified document from the client to the server.

The system also provides a simple text editor at a client of the system with which a user can create and upload a text file of the .txt type to the system server. This enables users to create a free format text file that can be created uploaded and opened by users without the need for a word processing application.

The system provides users the ability to relate links to the resource. Links provide quick access to information or tools. The link can be an external link or an internal link. External links provide access to an outside source utilizing an address like an URL or a link to a network source utilizing a link to a shared device. This enables users to link to a shared document or other file types without the need to upload the files to the system. Other users on the network could access the same file without being part of the system. Internal links provide access to other resources within the system. When users want to use a resource that resides in a different structure of the system they can provide a link that will launch that resource whenever it is called. This provides the flexibility to reuse resources without the need to create special initiatives for aggregation.

The system provides users the ability to relate an RSS feed to the resource RSS feeds are web feeds in XML format that enable users to receive updated news or information articles through a special reader screen. The ability to provide these connections allow users to create a link that provides new updated article every time the link is selected and articles are presented.

The system provides users the ability to relate discussions to the resource. Discussions are on line asynchronous threaded chat boards that provide users a place to exchange questions opinions and remarks in relation to the resource topic. Users can initiate a discussion in context to the resource s objective and either receives answers to the discussed topic or reply to a discussion topic started by another user.

Actual access to a given object may be limited by the given user s role in the workspace. The workspace roles in an exemplary embodiment are viewer user manager and administrator. For example a user who has a viewer role may read but not create update or delete objects in the workspace. Consequently such a user will see only those objects to which the user has some kind of access by virtue either of the user s individual permissions or by virtue of the group permissions of a group to which the user belongs. Because the user has the viewer role the user will be able to do nothing with the objects to which he or she has access but read them.

Returning to database tables contain the information used to represent a workspace and its components. In an exemplary embodiment database tables are implemented using a standard commercial database system such as those manufactured by Oracle Corporation . The tables are shown in in logical terms. A table of users contains an entry for each user who has access to workspace in system . The users who have access to a given workspace are organized into groups in the workspace by a group table and are assigned roles in the workspace by a role table .

A workspace table has an entry for each workspace. Associated with the entry for the workspace are the groups that have access to the workspace the roles these groups have the resource templates used in the workspace table and the domains initiatives resources and knowledge boards belonging to the workspace table .

The system provides an internal messaging center to allow quick communication between users or whole groups of users. The message center does not rely on an email server so it can be used even when access to other systems in limited. The message center displays alerts generated by the system and messages to specific users. Users can proactively select important resources within the system and let the system alert them whenever a new resource is added changed document are uploaded links created and others. This allows users to be selective as for what is important to them to be alerted of and reduce the need for users to send email messages alerting users of updates or changes to information. An email option is available for users who wish to receive the messages and or the alerts on their email system as well. In this way users who are away from the system can still be alerted to important information.

The system allows administrators to perform global setup of the navigation GUI. This includes the GUI for the application and the definitions of companies for which the workspaces are created. The system administrator can customize the application s logo licensing keys and application level administrative roles and names. The system administrator can define the companies that are sharing the GUI including names and information of the companies divisions and departments.

T ADMIN ROLE The T ADMIN ROLE table holds the application level administrator role identifiers and names. There is an entry for each administrator. There is a code that is used to easily identify the role when adding it to a user. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T APPLICATION LICENSE The T APPLICATION LICENSE table holds the license key that enables certain features in the system. There is an entry for each license key. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T APPLICATION LOGO The T APPLICATION LOGO table holds the default logo for the application. It can also store another row that contains an administrative uploaded logo. The LOGO DATE row holds the binary data for the image file itself. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T DISCUSSION TOPIC The entries in the T DISCUSSION TOPIC table relate discussion topics to a resource. There is an entry for each discussion topic. Each entry references the resource s record in the T OBJ RESOURCE table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T DISCUSSION REPLY The entries in the T DISCUSSION REPLY table relate discussion replies to a discussion topic. There is one entry for each reply. Each entry references the discussion topic s record in the T DISCUSSION TOPIC table and the parent message. The parent can be another reply in the same table. Replies can be children of other replies in order to maintain a threaded discussion. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T MANAGER PROPERTY The entries in the T MANAGER PROPERTY table stores custom property values for various system managers. There is an entry for each property value. Each manager is configured with its own default values. When a system administrator updates those values they are stored in this table. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T MD COMPANY The T MD COMPANY table has an entry for each entity such as a company that a user of the system may belong to. Entries for users in the system refer to this table to indicate the companies the users belong to. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T MD DIVISION The T MD DIVISION table has an entry for each division under a company. Entries for users in the system refer to this table to indicate the division the users belong to. Each entry references a company s record in the T MD COMPANY table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T MD DEPARTMENT The T MD DEPARTMENT table has an entry for each department under a division. Entries for users in the system refer to this table to indicate the department the users belong to. Each entry references a division s record in the T MD DIVISION table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T MD COUNTRY The T MD COUNTRY table holds the names for the countries. There is an entry for each country. These are used for address fields in user profiles and company profiles. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T MESSAGE The T MESSAGE table holds messages sent by users of the system. There is an entry for each message. Each entry references the record of a workspace in which the message was sent from the T WORKSPACE table and the record of the message creator from the T USER PROFILE table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T MESSAGE USER The entries in the T MESSAGE USER table relate messages to the user to which they were addressed. There is an entry for each user message recipient for each message. Each entry references the message s record in the T MESSAGE table and the user s record in the T USER PROFILE table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T MESSAGE GROUP The entries in the T MESSAGE GROUP table relates message to the groups to which the message was addressed. There is an entry for each group message recipient for each message. Each entry references the message s record in the T MESSAGE table and the group s record from the T WORKSPACE GROUP table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T MESSAGE RECIPIENT The T MESSAGE RECIPIENT table relates messages to users the message was sent to. It breaks out users from the groups that were addressed. There is an entry for each user regardless if the user was selected from the user or group side. There is an entry for each user message recipient for each message. Each entry references the message s record in the T MESSAGE table and the user s record in THE T USER PROFILE table . When a user reads the message it is marked here. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T OBJ DATA The T OBJ DATA table holds the details of the data object. It s the superclass for all other data objects Domains Initiatives Dashboards and Resources . There is an entry for each data object. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T OBJ DATA ALERT USER The entries in the T OBJ DATA ALERT USER table relate alerts to users and data objects. There is an entry for each user and each data object. Each entry references the object s record in the T OBJ DATA table and the user s record in the T USER PROFILE table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T OBJ DATA PERM GROUP The entries in the T OBJ DATA PERM GROUP table relate permissions for groups to data objects. There is an entry for each permission for a group for each data object. Each entry references the object s record in the T OBJ DATA table and the group s record in the T WORKSPACE GROUP table . Possible permission values are 

T OBJ DATA PERM USER The T OBJ DATA PERM USER table relates permissions for a user to data objects. There is an entry for each permission for a user for each data object. Each entry references the object s record in the T OBJ DATA table and the user s record in the T USER PROFILE table . Possible permission values are 

T OBJ DASHBOARD The T OBJ DASHBOARD table holds the details of a knowledge board. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T OBJ DASHBOARD RES TMPLT The entries in the T OBJ DASHBOARD RES TMPLT table relates resource templates with a particular knowledge board. There is an entry for each resource template knowledge board association. Each entry references a knowledge board s record in the T OBJ DASHBOARD TABLE and a resource s record in the T OBJ RESOURCE table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows.

T OBJ DASHBOARD FIELD DEFAULT The T OBJ DASHBOARD FIELD DEFAULT table holds the list of default fields that should be shown on a knowledge board for a particular resource template and any filter data. There is an entry for each field. Each entry references a knowledge board s record in the T OBJ DASHBOARD RES TMPLT table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T OBJ DASHBOARD FIELD TMPLT The T OBJ DASHBOARD FIELD TMPLT table holds the list of dynamic fields that should be shown on a knowledge board for a particular resource template and any filter data. There is an entry for each field. Each entry references a knowledge board s record in the T OBJ DASHBOARD RES TMPLT table and a field s record in the T RES TMPLT FIELD table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T OBJ DOMAIN The T OBJ DOMAIN table holds the details of a domain. There is an entry for each domain. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T OBJ INITIATIVE The T OBJ INITIATIVE table holds the details of an initiative. There is an entry for each initiative. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T OBJ INITIATIVE DATA OBJECT The entries in the T OBJ INITIATIVE DATA OBJECT table relate data objects to initiatives. There is an entry for each initiative data object association. Each entry references the initiative s record in the T OBJ INITIATIVE table and the data object s record in the T OBJ DATA table . The initiative is related to a workspace through the Workspace ID in the object s record. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T OBJ RESOURCE The T OBJ RESOURCE table holds the details of a resource. There is an entry for each resource. Each entry references the resource template s record in the T RES TMPLT from which the resource was created. This association is used in knowledge boards to find resources belonging to the resource template for the purpose of generating a report as described above. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T OBJ RESOURCE INFORMATION The entries in the T OBJ RESOURCE INFORMATION table relate information documents links RSS feeds to resources There is an entry for each piece of information. Each entry references the resource s record in the T OBJ RESOURCE table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows.

T OBJ RESOURCE DOCUMENT The entries in the T OBJ RESOURCE DOCUMENT table relate documents to the information table. It subclasses the T RESOURCE INFORMATION table . There is an entry for each document. Each entry references an information s record in the T OBJ RESOURCE INFORMATION table . The document is related to a resource through the Resource ID in the information s record. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T OBJ RESOURCE LINK The entries in the T OBJ RESOURCE LINK table relate links to information. It subclasses the T RESOURCE INFORMATION table . There is an entry for each link. Each entry references an information s recording the T OBJ RESOURCE INFORMATION table . The link is related to a resource through the Resource ID in the information s record. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T OBJ RESOURCE RSS The entries in the T OBJ RESOURCE RSS table relate RSS feeds to information. It subclasses the T RESOURCE INFORMATION table . There is an entry for each RSS feed. Each entry references an information s record in the T OBJ RESOURCE INFORMATION table . The RSS feed is related to a resource through the Resource ID in the information s record. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T OBJ RESOURCE VALUE The T OBJ RESOURCE VALUE table holds values for each field of each resource as set by a user. There is an entry for each field of each resource. Each entry references a field s record in the T RES TMPLT FIELD table and a resource s record in the T OBJ RESOURCE table . The field ID s come from the resource template associated with this resource. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T RES TMPLT The T RES TMPLT table holds the details of the resource templates. There is an entry for each resource template. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T RES TMPLT FIELD TYPE The T RES TMPLT FIELD TYPE table holds a number of different types a data field in a resource template can exist as. There is an entry for each data field type. This is used when producing a visual representation of the field. Each field type can be associated with a category. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T RES TMPLT FIELD The T RES TMPLT FIELD table holds both global data fields that apply to multiple object types and resource template specific data fields. The difference is determined by the RES TMPLT ID field. If this field is null the field is global. Global fields are used when creating a new resource template. There is an entry for each data field. The Each entry references the resource template s record in the T RES TMPLT table and the field type s record in the T RES TMPLT FIELD TYPE table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T RES TMPLT FIELD OPTION The T RES TMPLT FIELD OPTION table holds options values for the various data fields in the resource templates. There is an entry for each option. Each entry references the field s record in the T RES TMPLT FIELD table . For instance a select list might contain 15 different predefined options. These can be setup for both global fields and resource template specific fields. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T RES TMPLT CATEGORY The T RES TMPLT CATEGORY table holds the details of the resource template categories. There is an entry for each category. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T RES TMPLT CATEGORY MAP The entries in the T RES TMPLT CATEGORY MAP table relate categories to resource templates. There is an entry for each template category association. Each entry references the resource template s record in the T RES TMPLT table and the category s record in the T RES TMPLT CATEGORY table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T USER PROFILE The T USER PROFILE table holds the information of users in the system and relates the user to a company division and department. There is an entry for each user. Each entry references a company s record in the T MD COMPANY table a division s record in the T MD DIVISION table and a department s record in the T MD DEPARTMENT table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T USER PROFILE WORK The T USER PROFILE WORK table holds the information of users in the system. There is an entry for each user and each entry references the user s record in the T USER PROFILE table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T USER LOGIN The entries in the T USER LOGIN table relate login information to users in the system if authenticating users through the application. There is one entry for each user. Each entry references the user s record in the T USER PROFILE table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T USER LOGIN HISTORY The entries in the T USER LOGIN HISTORY table relate the login logout dates times to individual users. There is an entry for each login and each logout. Each entry references a user s record in the T USER PROFILE table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T USER PREFERENCES The entries in the T USER PREFERENCES table relate preferences to individual users. There is an entry for each user. Each entry references a user s record in the T USER PROFILE table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T USER ADMIN ROLE The entries in the T USER ADMIN ROLE table relate application level admin role assignments to users. Users can have multiple admin roles. There is an entry for each role assignment. Each entry references the role s record in the T ADMIN ROLE table and the user s record in the T USER PROFILE table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T WORKSPACE The T WORKSPACE table holds information about workspaces. There is an entry for each workspace. The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T WORKSPACE ROLE The T WORKSPACE ROLE table holds the four workspace roles available Viewer User Manager and Administrator. There is an entry for each workspace role The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T WORKSPACE MEMBER The entries in the T WORKSPACE MEMBER table relate users to a workspace and assign their role within the workspace. Users can have different roles in different workspaces. There is an entry for each user workspace relationship. Each entry references the user s record in the T USER PROFILE table the workspace s record in the t WORKSPACE table and the role s record in the T WORKSPACE ROLE table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T WORKSPACE GROUP The entries in the T WORKSPACE GROUP table relate groups to a workspace. Groups are just a way of grouping a number of users together for easy reference. There is an entry for each group workspace relationship. Each entry references a workspace s record in the T WORKSPACE table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T WORKSPACE GROUP MEMBER The entries in the T WORKSPACE GROUP MEMBER table relate users to workspace groups. Users can belong to any number of groups. There is an entry for each user workspace relationship. Each entry references the group s record in the T WORKSPACE GROUP table and a member s record in the T WORKSPACE MEMBER table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T WORKSPACE QUICK LINK The entries in the T WORKSPACE QUICK LINK table relate links to workspaces. They can be used to quickly access information for the entire workgroup. There is an entry for each link workspace relationship. Each entry references the workspace s record in the T WORKSPACE table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T WORKSPACE RES TMPLT The entries in the T WORKSPACE RES TMPLT table relate resources templates to workspaces. There is an entry for each workspace template relationship. Each entry references the workspace s record in the T WORKSPACE table and the resource template s record in the T RES TMPLT table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

T WORKSPACE PREFERENCE The T WORKSPACE PREFERENCE table has a many to one relationship with T WORKSPACE and holds an array of preferences for each workspace. There is an entry for each workspace preference. Each entry references the workspace s record in the T WORKSPACE table . The fields in the table s entries are as follows 

An administrator can further select the Archive or Lock options. These options provide the ability to lock or archive the system s elements or documents. These options are important in supporting the compliance aspect of the system where any user company or element including any document ever put in the system is maintained forever. Selection of the Lock option provides the ability to protect an entity so that no other person can change or remove it from the system. The selection of the Archive option means that the record for the company will be removed from the view on the system but will remain within the system s database and could be retrieved if needed.

As illustrated in a division can be created and associated with the company by selecting Add Division . The administrator is then prompted for information for the division. Division information is stored in an entry in the T MD DIVISION table . The administrator sets the name of the division the company with which the division is associated the date the division s record was created and the date the division information was last updated which are stored in the entry. The entry references the company in the Company ID field. The administrator can further select the archive option and or the lock option for this division.

As illustrated in a department can be created and associated with the division by selecting Add Department . The administrator is then prompted for information for the department such as through a prompt window for the department name. Information for the department is stored in an entry in the T MD DEPARTMENT table . The administrator sets the name of the department the division with which the department is associated the date the department s record was created and the date the department information was last updated which are stored in the entry. The entry references the division in the Division ID field. The administrator can further select the archive option and or the lock option not shown .

The administrator can further create template categories not shown to which the resource template can be related. The template categories are stored in the T RES TMPLT CATEGORY table with the resource template category association stored as an entry in the T RES TMPLT CATEGORY MAP table .

As illustrated in the administrator can add users as members of the workspace. Information for each user member is stored in the T WORKSPACE MEMBER table . The information includes the identity of the user member the User ID coming from the T USER PROFILE table . The workspace to which the user is a member is stored in the Workspace ID field the workspace D coming from the T WORKSPACE table . As illustrated in each member is assigned privileges or roles . The role of a member is stored in the Role ID field in the T WORKSPACE MEMBER TABLE the Role ID coming from the T WORKSPACE ROLE table .

If a workspace group is created not shown then the workspace group information is stored in the T WORKSPACE GROUP table . Users are then added as members of the workspace group by adding an entry to the T WORKSPACE GROUP MEMBER table with a user s Member ID and a Group ID for a workspace group. The Member ID comes from the T WORKSPACE MEMBER table . This links users to the workspace group.

As illustrated in resource templates can be associated or disassociated with the workspace by checking the appropriate resource template and selecting the Add button or Remove button . The association is stored in the T WORKSPACE RES TMPLT table which stores the Workspace ID from the T WORKSPACE table and the Res Tmplt ID FROM THE T RES TMPLT table in the same record. The administrator can further select the archive option or the lock option for any of the resource templates .

As illustrated in quick links can also be added to the workspace. The quick links are stored in the T WORKSPACE QUICK LINK table including the name of the quick link in the Name field the description of the quick link the URL for the quick link and whether the Target of the quick link is to be displayed in a new window or the same window as the workspace.

As illustrated in the administrator is first shown a list of existing users . From this screen the administrator can select the archive option or the lock option for any of the users . When the administrator selects an Add User option not shown a blank profile is displayed as illustrated in . The administrator fills in the fields and the field values are stored in the T USER PROFILE table and the T USER PROFILE WORK table . The user information includes the user name the email address the job title the company which comes from the T MD COMPANY table the division which comes from the T MD DIVISION table . and the department which comes from the T MD DIVISION table . Also set are the street city state postal code and country of the user s address and the user s phone extension and fax numbers. Also stored in the T USER PROFILE table are the first time the user logs in the system the date the user accepts the application license agreement the date the user s profile was created and the date the user s profile was last updated. Drop down menu can be used for any of these fields.

As illustrated in the administrator can reset the user s password by selecting the reset password button . The password is stored as part of the user s record in the T USER LOGIN table which also stores the date the password was created the date the login record was created and the date the login record was last updated. Users can be archived by selecting the archive option and or or locked by selecting the lock option .

As illustrated in the administrator can authorize the user for administrative roles by selecting a super admin site administrator option a GUI administrator option or a backup administrator option . The super admin has authority to manage anything in the system. The GUI administrator has authority only to manage the navigator GUI. The backup administrator has authority to manage only the backup of the system. The user s role is stored in the T USER ADMIN ROLE table which includes the User ID and the Role ID fields. The User ID comes from the T USER PROFILE table and the Role ID comes the T ADMIN ROLE table .

The administrator can assign users to each workspace. At the time of selecting a workspace the administrator can assign to users roles and privileges. Possible roles include Workspace administrator Manager User and Viewer. These assignments are stored in the T WORKSPACE MEMBER table which includes the User ID field from the T USER PROFILE table and the Role ID field from the T WORKSPACE ROLE table . Users can have different roles in different workspaces. For example as illustrated in FIG. E user Janet Alhgren is given access to the workspaces listed and assigned the roles listed in each respective workspace.

As illustrated in the administrator can select History and view the log of each user access to the system. The login history is stored in the T USER LOGIN HISTORY table .

Once the system administrator sets up an account for a user the user has the ability to log into the system and access the workspaces. The user is provided with a URL for accessing the workspaces as well as a unique username and password. The user through a web enabled application accesses the site at the URL. show an example user s experience in using the system to access workspaces.

The user launches an Internet browser application at a client and enters the URL address in the browser address field. The user enters the user name and password provided by the administrator in the logon screen illustrated in . A corporate network and server usage message may show as illustrated in . The user continues by accepting the terms.

For first time users a screen will display the licensing agreement and terms of use as illustrated in . The user continues by selecting an accept button . The user is then provided an opportunity to add update or correct his personal profile information as illustrated in . The personal profile information is stored in the T USER PROFILE table and the T USER PROFILE WORK table and the preferences are stored in the T USER PREFERENCES table .

The person profile information includes the user s first name and last name address street city state country and postal code and the phone mobile phone and pager numbers.

The user preferences include the default workspace the default navigator tab and the default language . The user can further choose whether or not to receive email alerts and or email messages by selecting deselecting the email alerts option and email messages option .

After logging on the user is displayed the overview screen of the default workspace an example of which is illustrated in . The overview screen is divided into areas that provide the tools to interact with the system and navigate through the system. The areas include A Default workspace and a pull down selection to navigate to other workspaces if applicable B Navigator screen which is divided into two tables for agencies domains and operations initiatives C overview workspace screen which includes the logo a description of the displayed workspace and a list of administrators D List of new alerts E Detail view hidden which shows the agency operation or resource when selected F List of actions through which the user can start working in the workspace which can also be taken through pull down tabs G Message Center hidden providing the ability to see all alerts and messages and the ability for the user to read send forward or reply to alerts and messages H Search hidden for searching the agency operation or resource of the workspace I Quick links which provide general purpose links to web sites or tools J Recently viewed information for quick reference to last visited pages K Details which includes creation date and updated date for the workspace and a list of workspace members on line or off line L Tools and print for editing the welcome screen if the user has permission to do so or to print the page M User name display and N Logout button to ensure that sessions are terminated.

The workspace further includes the list of unread alerts that are in the user s Message Center actions quick links recently viewed list and details . The alerts are stored in the T OBJ DATA ALERT USER table . Selecting any of the alerts will open the Message Center and the appropriate alert for reference. The Message Center will be further described later in this specification.

The actions provide direct access to respective Creates dialog where users create new structures or shareable resource element for an agency operation resource or message. The create dialogues are shown and described later below. The agency domain is stored in the T OBJ DOMAIN table . The operation initiative is stored in the T OBJ INTIATIVE table . The resource is stored in the T OBJ RESOURCE table . The agency operation and resource are associated with a workspace through the T OBJ DATA table as illustrated in .

The quick links provide quick access to general purpose information or tools related to the main function of a workspace. The quick links are stored in the T WORKSPACE LINK table .

The recently viewed list shows the last screens the user visited. The list is refreshed during logon. Selecting any of the presented entries will open the page in detail view. This enables a user to jump to recently visited pages without the need to use the navigator .

The details provide information on the date the workspace was created or modified stored in the T WORKSPACE table . Depending on the options set up by the administrator for the user the details may provide the ability to view other workspace members and whether they are online or offline.

The resources can be renamed by an administrator to better represent their usage. They can be presented as many times as desired both the agency and operation hierarchies without duplication. This allows users to update and add information in a single place and instantly provide these upgrades to all users without replication. Here Federal Agencies is the workspace. Under the Federal Agencies workspace are the operations initiatives . The operation hierarchy includes sub operations including the Agriculture Food Disasters Chemical HazMat Disasters etc. Under the operations are the objects hidden associated with the operations. Selecting one of the objects displays the object s details in the workspace details view . During the launching of the application the navigator will be displayed and remain continuously on the screen.

Selecting any of the agencies from the navigator will display the agency information within the workspace details view. show views of the agency information. shows the agency main screen. The agency main screen includes the name of the agency actions and details . The actions include edit and alerts .

When a user selects the create button to create a new agency entry or selects the New Agency option in the overview screen the screen illustrated in FIG. B is shown. The user sets the title of the agency and the description of the agency. Both are stored in the T OBJ DATA table with the ID of the agency stored in the T OBJ DOMAIN table referenced in the Parent ID field in the T OBJ DATA table . See . The placement in the parent daughter domain hierarchy can also be set with the parent domain stored in the Parent ID field of the daughter domain record in the T OBJ DATA table . The daughter will carry the permissions setup of the parent.

Once created the new entry is displayed as illustrated in . Agency elements can be managed by selection any of the action options details owner permissions and delete . Selecting details will open a window similar to the create window shown in and will allow users to change the title description or reposition the agency under another parent agency. Selecting owner will open a window illustrated in which will provide users the option to reassign the responsibility for the agency element to another user. The owner is stored in the Owner ID field in the T OBJ DATA table . This feature provides accountability for maintenance of the system s elements because there must always be a user named as the primary owner for each object. Returning to selecting permissions provide users with the option to change the pre assigned permissions that were granted during the creation of the parent agency. Users can add or remove groups or individual users or change the permission level for viewer user manager or administrator. These permissions are stored in the T OBJ DATA PERM GROUP table and the T OBJ DATA PERM USER table . Selecting delete will archive the agency entry and remove it from view.

Users can elect to be or not be alerted of any changes to agency elements by toggling the receive alert option . When toggled on an alert entry will be generated within the message center. The message center is described later below. The receive alert option is transferred to all daughter domains. To send an alert to other users the send alert option is selected. This will open a message window where groups and users are selected and a message to accompany the alert can be typed.

The resources are the main working elements of the application. They contain information tools links and data. Resources are created from resource templates as set by the administrator and assigned to specified workspaces. How a resource template is built is described above in the administrative setup section. Each resource is owned by a specific user who is responsible for creating and maintaining the contents.

Once the resource template is selected a blank resource template screen is opened as illustrated in . The user enters the title and description as well as the name address birthday and education of the owner of the resource. The user further sets the default placement of the resource in the navigator tree by selecting the parent resource . These pieces of information are stored as records in the T OBJ DATA table . A completed resource view is shown in .

Access to the resource is based on permissions. The permissions are automatically set when a resource is created and during the creation process only are inherited from the original parent domain agency or resource in which it is created. At any time users can confirm the permissions set up or make changes to users and groups by selecting the permissions option . These permissions are stored in the T OBJ DATA PERM GROUP table and the T OBJ DATA PERM USER table and were set by the system administrator.

Once a resource is created content can be added to the resource through the create options . The create options include discussion topic link RSS feed text document and upload document . These options are optional and are selected to be included with the resource template by the system administrator.

By selecting the discussion topic option an add a discussion topic dialog is opened as illustrated in . The user enters a topic name and enters text into the comments field . The user selects the submit button to upload the discussion the reset button to start over and the cancel button to close and return to the previous screen. Once submitted the discussion topic is stored in the T DISCUSSION TOPIC table and linked to the resource by storing the resource s ID in the Resource ID field.

The discussion topic is then shown with the original discussion and its replies as illustrated in . Discussions are organized as threaded discussions and the replies are indented to present a visual hierarchy of replies.

To create a link the link option is selected. An add a link dialog is displayed as illustrated in . The user enters a title and a description of the link. The link type of either external or internal is selected. External link type is for links to external web sites or other systems. Internal link type is for links to resources or knowledge boards within the application. The URL for the link is entered. The user selects the submit button to upload the link the reset button to start over and the cancel button to close and return to the previous screen. Once submitted the link is stored in the T OBJ RESOURCE INFORMATION table and the T OBJ RESOURCE LINK table . The link is then shown in the resource workspace as shown in which includes the title type version date updated and a details option .

Selection of the title opens a new window in the web browser to display the contents of the listed URL file or tools or to launch the appropriate software application. To view details of the link the details option is selected and a link details dialog is displayed as illustrated in . The dialog displays the title description URL name of the creator date created and date updated . To archive the link and remove it from view the archive button is selected.

To change any of the link parameters the edit tab is selected as illustrated in . The user can modify or update a name description link type and or URL . The user selects the submit button to upload the changes the reset button to start over and the cancel button to close and return to the previous screen.

Some resource topics can benefit from an internal link connecting to another element in the workspace. A user with permission to access multiple workspaces can also link the resources across workspaces. shows the creation of an internal link. The internal link provides a link internally to another agency resource operation or knowledge board. On the link dialog the internal link option is selected. The browse button is selected to display as illustrated in a list of agencies operations hidden resources and knowledge boards under various workspaces . One of these objects is selected by selecting the select button . A link to the object is automatically entered in the field in . Once the internal link is uploaded it is displayed in the resource workspace as shown in including the title type version date updated and a details option .

Selection of the details option displays the link details in a new window as illustrated in . The internal link details presents all the information related to the link including name description link name of the creator date created and date updated . To archive the link and remove it from view the archive button is selected.

To change any of the link parameters the edit tab is selected as illustrated in . The user can modify or update a name description link type and or URL . The user selects the submit button to upload the changes the reset button to start over and the cancel button to close and return to the previous screen.

Some resources can benefit from regular and automatic information updates provided through RSS feeds. An RSS feed is a web feed format used to publish frequently updated content from Internet websites. RSS content is read in a special web browser window called an RSS reader. To link to an RSS feed the user needs to define the link address of the feed. Many news providers provide RSS feed links on their web sites.

Selection of the RSS feed title launches the web site with a full article as illustrated in . The user can choose to view the details of the RSS feed by selecting the details option as illustrated in . The RSS feed details presents the information related to the RSS feed including the name description URL name of the creator date created and date updated . To archive the RSS feed and remove it from view the archive button is selected.

To change any of the RSS feed parameters the edit tab is selected as illustrated in . The user can modify or update a name description and or URL . The user selects the submit button to upload the changes the reset button to start over and the cancel button to close and return to the previous screen.

The option to create a text file provides users with the ability to create text and add a .txt file to the system without using a work processing program. A text file .txt can be opened with a standard text editor program provided by all computers. This is a simple and easy way to create and share written documents with other users. It is also an easy way to share and preserve emails by simply copying the email paste it into an open text document and storing it in a resource. The email information thereby becomes part of the resource and can be shared.

Selection of the text file title displays the text content in a text editor program as illustrated in where it can be viewed edited or save to the user s computer under a different file name. The save allows users to add the file to their local computer for future use re naming it as necessary.

The user can choose to view details of the information on the text file by selecting the details option as illustrated in . The text file details include the file name description latest version file size name of the creator date created whether the file is compressed whether the file is encrypted the MD5 checksum for the file and the mime type . To archive the text file and remove it from view the archive button is selected.

To change any of the text file parameters the actions tab is selected as illustrated in . The user can modify or update a name and or description . The user can add a comment and or upload a new version of the file . The user selects the upload button to upload the changes or the reset button to start over. In order to upload a new version of the text file the user must first check the file out of the repository. If no changes were made and the user elects to permit the use of the currently loaded text file the user selects the undo checkout button .

To view the history of the file and changes made to it the user selects the history tab as illustrated in .

The system enables the loading and storing of document files in any format such as Microsoft Word Excel PowerPoint files and most other multimedia formats sound pictures graphics text . For the purpose of simplicity these file formats are referred to herein as documents . To share documents with other users will require those users to have the appropriate software application on their computer to launch and open the specific file format.

The adding of a document here differs from the adding of a text file above in that the documents are not in a .txt format. The documents also exist locally to a user prior to being added to the workspace.

Selection of the document name launches the application with which the document is associated and displays the document contents in the application. The user can choose to view details of the document by selecting the details option as illustrated in . The document details include the file name description latest version file size name of the creator date created whether the document is compressed whether the document is encrypted the MD5 checksum for the document and the mime type . To archive the text document and remove it from view the archive button is selected.

To change any of the document parameters the action tab is selected as illustrated in . The user can modify or update a name and or description . The user can add a comment and or select a new version of the document to upload . The user selects the upload button to upload the changes or the reset button to start over. In order to upload a new version of the document the user must first check the document out of the repository as shown in . If no changes were made and the user elects to permit the use of the currently loaded document the user selects the undo checkout button .

To view the history of the file and changes made to it the user selects the history table as illustrated in .

The owner is the original creator of a resource. When there is a need to assign a resource to a different owner due to personnel changes new responsibilities or any other reason a user can select the owner option . A change ownership dialog is displayed as illustrated in . A new owner can then be selected from the pull down menu.

A resource can be deleted by selecting the delete option . A delete confirmation dialog is displayed as illustrated in . The user selects the confirm button to complete the process and the cancel button to terminate and return to the previous screen. Deleted resources are removed from the users view and archived in the system archive storage. No information is permanently deleted. Administrators can un archive deleted resources as required.

Users can receive an alert message for any change made to each resource listed. shows the set up of alerts for a workspace. When the user selects the Receive Alert option an alert entry is generated within the message center. The message center is described further below. Selection of the Receive Alert option toggles the option on and off. To send an alert to other users the Send Alert option is selected. This will open a message window as illustrated in where groups or users are selected and a message to accompany the alert can be typed. The alerts and the users to which the alerts are sent are stored in the T OBJ DATA ALERT USER table .

The resource details provide users with information on the owner who originally created the resource or the owner who has the resource re assigned to them. Users can communicate with the owner of the resource by selecting the owner s highlighted name . A new message dialog will then open as described further below in the context of the message center. The resource details further display the name of the resource template and the version used to create the resource the date the resource was created and the last modified date.

The system allows users to import information from an application such as an Excel worksheet and automatically create multiple resources. These resources will be created within a selected organization domain and will automatically be assigned the permission of the parent organization in which they are created.

Users can import any Excel file that contains information organized in columns and rows where the first row defines the field names and the following rows are the records of information. Each row will be imported as a single resource. The system attempts to match column names with the resource template fields. Users can manually match columns and fields as well.

The administrators who create the resource templates have the option to export an Excel file that exactly matches the fields and columns and provide it to users as a guide. This Excel template will guide users to create a data source that can be easily and directly imported into specific resources in the system. An Excel file exported directly from the resource template will have the fields of the template already posted in the first row and represent all the fields as columns. Users will fill out the Excel file with the required information in a format organized as rows of data for each resource. This will simplify the import of data from an Excel file to a resource.

When importing the system attempts to match the field names in the resource template with the column headers and displays the matched fields as shown in . If the system cannot match fields it will leave those fields blank. The user can manually select the column headers and match them to the selected fields as shown in . Once the matching process is completed the data is imported and the new resource is created.

Knowledge boards enable users to create a report based on the information fields contained resource templates and hence in the resources. Users can customize this to display specific selected columns and filter information according to specific keywords or values. The resulting display in a table in the format of columns fields and rows resources which dynamically displays a real time data from across the workspace.

When the knowledge board is selected a knowledge board window is displayed as shown in which includes the title of the knowledge board editing buttons and the selected resource display screen . The title bar of the resource display screen includes the resource template name version number and total number of resources the user has permission to view. This information on the resources and the resource templates are stored in the T OBJ RESOURCE and T RES TMPLT tables. The link of a resource to a resource template is stored in the Resource Kit ID field in the entries of the T OBJ RESOURCE table . Once filtering is added the numbers will show the number of resources displayed out of the total available resources.

To customize the report the configure button is selected and a configure dialog is displayed as shown in . The configure dialog is divided into two parts. The first part contains the resource default fields and the second part contains the resource template fields. Customization of the selected fields to be displayed as columns is completed by a check mark. The title name of the resource is displayed by default. Checking the top box in each group will select deselect all fields in the list. To filter each field by a specific keyword the word is typed into the field on the right or selected from a list . The user selects the submit button to upload the updated knowledge board the reset button to start over and the cancel button to close and return to the previous screen. Here the Name field in the resources and the Address and Assignment fields in the resource templates are selected to be in the report with the Assignment field filtered to show only those in the NY Field office.

Once submitted the knowledge board with the newly added fields is displayed as shown in according to the configured filter. The knowledge board shows the resource s name address and assignment fields for assignments in the NY field office. As illustrated in the knowledge board can be managed by selecting the edit option the permissions option the delete option or the refresh option . Selecting the edit option reopens the create dialog and allows the user to modify the title description and select deselect add resources . Selecting the permissions option allows the user to share the knowledge board with other groups and or individual users. Selecting the delete option removes the knowledge board from view and archives it in storage. The knowledge board is automatically refreshed every time it is opened. Some changes may happen while the knowledge board is displayed. To ensure the data is fully updated the user can select the refresh button at any time while viewing it. The knowledge board report can be exported to an Excel spreadsheet. Change to data in this Excel export document will not affect change or update data stored in the system.

The operations process structure enables users to bring to others at each step in the process those resources tools and information needed to accomplish that task. In the operations view users can build the various structures that will provide the framework for working with the information and tools stored in the system. The operations structure enables the use of resources shared from the agencies that created and maintained them within one or multiple procedures to accomplish a task.

The operations structure might be a timeline listing hours or days with the information presented in steps reports and requests for assistance. Or additional views might be step by step plans for responding to different types of emergencies Concept of Operations plans a National or Regional Response Plan a mutual aid procedure or any other formats that may be relevant to operations of this organization or group of organizations.

The main benefit of the operations view is that the information created and maintained in the agencies view can be shared with one or multiple operations and re used as many times as required different operational plans without the need to duplicate the information and struggle to keep it current. Operations enable multiple viewing usage and organization of the same data information by different users for different activities.

With resources and knowledge board reports being shared in the operations view any changes updates or additions will be immediately distributed and shared within all the processes and windows where these resources are being used thereby eliminating the need to alert users via telecommunication or electronic mail.

When creating a new operation entry the system will automatically set the default placement in a parent daughter hierarchy as shown in . The system displays the structure of the navigator s operation layout and places the new entry as a daughter to the operation where the user is when selecting the create option. At any time the user can elect to reposition the new entry by selecting any of the check boxes . The new sub element daughter will carry the permissions set up of the parent.

Once the user completes the entry of the title and description of the parent he may choose the create button to finish and create the new entry the reset button to clean the fields and start again or the cancel button to terminate the operation and return to the previous screen.

As shown in after selecting the create button the system will create the new operation entry in the navigator and provide an opportunity to include objects in the operation i.e. associating resources and knowledge boards available from various agencies. An include objects dialog is displayed on the right side in . The included objects details tab displays a full list of all resources objects the user has permission to access. The user selects the resources and knowledge boards to be assigned as objects available from various agencies to this operation element. The user selects the update button to finish and add objects to the new entry the reset button to clean the fields and start again and the cancel button to terminate the operation and return to the previous screen. Each object related to the operation is stored in an entry in the T OBJ INITIATIVE DATA OBJECT table which references the operation in the Initiative ID field and the object in the Data Object ID field.

Once created the operation is displayed as shown in . Here an example operation Atlantic Region Hurricane is shown with one object the resource Atlantic Hurricane Season. All operation elements can be managed by selecting any of the following options details objects owner permissions or delete . Selecting the details option opens a window similar to the create window shown in which allows users to change the title description or reposition the operation under another parent. Selecting the objects option opens an include object window shown in which allows the user to switch add or remove resources or knowledge boards from the navigator screen by selecting or deselecting checkboxes. Selecting the owner option provides users the option to reassign the ownership responsibility for the operation object to another user. This feature provides accountability for maintenance of the system s elements by ensuring there is always a specific user associated with each entry. Selecting the permissions option provides users with the option to change the pre assigned permissions that were granted during the object s creation and inherited from the parent operation. Users can add or remove groups or individual users or change the permission level for viewer user manager or administrator roles. Selecting the delete option archives the operation entry and removes it from view. Each change to the operation is marked as an update and is displayed in the details window .

Users can select to be alerted of any changes to the operation objects. Selecting the receive alerts option toggles the option on and off. When toggled to on an alert entry is generated within the message center. To send an alert to other users the send alert option is selected. This opens a message window shown in where groups or users are selected and a message to accompany the alert can be typed.

A quick search function provides users with the ability to enter a keyword to be searched upon at any time. All the data and information entered into the fields in the workspace are searchable including titles description data fields and names and descriptions of uploaded files. shows a search results screen. The search results screen provides the following information the search keyword the total number of entries found and the list of the entries found during the search . Selecting any of the highlighted titles of the entries opens the element in a details window hidden . The user can refine the search by modifying the query term select to limit the search for a specific entry like resources or document and select the number of entries to be displayed in each screen.

The message center displays alerts generated by the system and messages from other groups and or user of the system. The message center displays alerts and messages to a specific user generated from all workspaces. This provides each user with an awareness of activities within other workspaces to which they have access.

Selecting an alert will display the message. The message includes a brief description of the nature of the alert and a link to the element. Selecting the link opens the element in the workspace window. If an alert was sent by another user the message will contain the name of the sender and message the user typed. Each alert is stored in an entry in the T OBJ DATA ALERT USER table which references the object in the Object ID field and the user in the User ID field.

As shown in messages can be replied to the sender by selecting the reply icon replied to all addresses by selecting the reply all icon or forwarded to other users and or groups by selecting the forward icon . A compose new message window is then displayed shown in with the previous message displayed and with space to type a new message. When forwarding users and groups need to be selected as recipients. The message center is not an external email program and cannot be used to send anything outside the system.

User access to information in the system is based upon roles and responsibilities that are setup within the permissions. For each workspace a user can be set up as a viewer a user a manager or an administrator. These set ups are performed by a system or users administrator. Users might be set up differently in different workspaces and therefore will have different roles in each workspace. This set up of roles in workspaces supersedes any set up in permissions.

With the Viewer role a user has view only permission to see selected objects as assigned. The user cannot perform any functions such as create details or delete. With the User role a user can create new objects like agencies operations resources and knowledge boards within objects as assigned. The user cannot change roles or permissions and will not see objects created by other users that are not shared. With the Manager role the user can see all the permissions and can assign permissions only to objects for which they have permission to change. With the Administrator role the user can see all the permissions and can assign permissions to anyone at any level. Users who create an object are automatically granted full permission to that object. They can grant any of their permission levels to other users or groups they share.

If users can access the permission setup by definition they have permission to assign rights to any of the groups of users or individual users that are visible to them. Permissions are assigned per object and will be automatically transferred to all sub objects that are created later. The system does not adjust permissions when objects are repositioned to from other parent objects. After re positioning an object users must view and update the permissions and attributes for the moved object s . Available permissions include read create update and delete. Read permission allows a user to view object elements including agencies resources operations and knowledge boards data fields documents links or discussions in resources only but does not allow the user to make changes. Create permission allows a user to create domains resources initiatives and knowledge boards. The user cannot change details documents or links details. Update permission allows a user to modify the objects agency operation resource as well as change details documents links and owners. Delete permission allows a user to delete archive the object to reposition the object and grant permissions to other users or groups.

Users can elect to change the password for their account by selecting the Change Password from the Administrator pull down menu . A change password dialog is displayed as shown in . The user enters the current password the new password and a confirmation of the new password . The user then selects an update button not shown to submit the changes or a reset button not shown to start over.

To ensure that the session has terminated on the user s workstation and no other users can access the user s account the user selects the Logout button . The system will terminate the session. The administrator also sets a timeout period for the system. If there is no activity on an open session for the timeout period defined by the administrator the system will automatically log out the user and terminate the session.

When utilizing the predefined address field in resources the system provides the option to display a map based on the address information as shown in . The default map option is set by the administrator and can be a mapping application provided on the Internet or a proprietary mapping application.

In addition to the management of the system as described above a system administrator can set up a number of parameters for supporting applications including document management email management encryptions management mapping management search management and security management. These functions are designed to provide enhanced services to users and administration of the system. An administrator accesses these functions through the system managers screen shown in .

The document manager provides a record of each document. As each document is uploaded into the system the system records the time it was uploaded the originator person who uploads of the document and the time. As the system is designed to provide a full accountability and compliance with regards to the information stored within the system the system maintains any previous version revision of a document loaded into it as well as all archived documents. The document management provides the tools to view archive replace and revive all types of documents loaded in the system. shows the set up of the document manager. The administrator selects the location of the files depository virus protection software and type of repository architecture .

The security manager is designed to set up the network s environment. As the server is part of a private or public network and all users have to access it through a network it is critical that the server cold be configured to limit the access of unauthorized users to the server. These are done by identifying the type of connections used by authorized users and limit the access of all other types of data including random packets used by hackers from reaching the server. This is done by opening the appropriate ports for the type of protocols used by the application. Also the system can define if information will be encrypted while it is transferred over the network and what type of encryption to use.

One of the key elements of the system is the depository of files documents images etc. . As every system that is networked there is a danger of malicious penetration and removal of sensitive information. To protect from that the stored information could be encrypted while it is stored and only be decrypted after delivery to authorized users. The administrator of the system can choose the option to encrypt and what encryption technology to use.

The mapping management allows the administrator to provide a link to their choice of a mapping GIS system. The ability to provide a tool to link to a mapping system enables users to define areas or locations by either geographical coordinates or street addresses and let the system display a map or an aerial photograph that represent the location.

The email manager allows the administrator to set a mail server on the system and define the name and address of the administrator. The role of the mail server is to provide users with the option to send alerts and messages from the system to their preferred mail client on their PC PDA or cell phone. These options allow users to get updated alerts without the need to be logged into the application. Mobile users can be alerted to changes in information or operation procedures critical to their operation while they are away from their primary computer system.

The search engine of the system indexed the entries within the system as keywords. This provides users the ability to locate any type of information by inquiring the database. The inquiry results are displayed to the searching users and provide links for to the presented results. This helps users to allocate requested information without an extensive knowledge of the structure which is critical in many environments where the users may have limited training or no previous knowledge of parts of the system.

For all of the foregoing reasons the Detailed Description is to be regarded as being in all respects exemplary and not restrictive and the breadth of the invention disclosed herein is to be determined not from the Detailed Description but rather from the claims as interpreted with the full breadth permitted by the patent laws.

