---

title: Configurable space station momentum
abstract: A method of deploying a modular space station comprises placing an initial space station module in space in a first deployment, the initial space station module including a first control law and momentum component that provides an initial solution for guidance, navigation, and control (GNC) during the first deployment. A first space station modular segment is joined with the initial space station module in a second deployment to produce a first joint configuration of the space station. A second control law and momentum component provides a second solution for GNC of the first joint configuration during the second deployment. A second space station modular segment is joined to the first joint configuration in a third deployment to produce a second joint configuration of the space station. A third control law and momentum component provides a third solution for GNC of the second joint configuration during the third deployment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09511882&OS=09511882&RS=09511882
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 09511882
owner_city: Morris Plains
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140516
---
One element of spacecraft design is attitude stabilization. Any uncontrolled body in space will tumble about all axes in responses to natural forces. A manned spacecraft not only has the effects of the natural forces but additionally has to deal with the disturbance added by the human occupants. Tumbling is not normally acceptable because solar panels communication antennas and other instruments need to have a stable platform. Additionally humans in a vehicle have adverse affects to the motion of an un stabilized vehicle.

There are several methods to provide spacecraft stabilization however long duration missions or missions requiring precision pointing typically use an attitude control system in addition to thrusters. Attitude control includes three tasks measuring attitude correction of attitude and a control law which is the mechanism that determines the magnitude and direction of correction e.g. see U.S. Pat. No. 7 014 150 U.S. Pat. No. 8 209 070 . A typical control system uses momentum control devices such as reaction wheels or Control Moment Gyroscopes CMGs as attitude control and an attitude control computer to execute the control law. Large satellites and space stations have momentum demands that usually require a CMG as the momentum device.

A CMG is generally used in spacecraft attitude control systems for 3 axis vehicle stabilization. A CMG generally includes a spinning rotor and one or more motorized gimbals that tilt the rotor s angular momentum. As the rotor tilts the changing angular momentum causes a gyroscopic torque that through the principle of conservation of momentum results in the rotation of the spacecraft. Additionally the change in angular momentum can absorb disturbance motion thus stabilizing the spacecraft.

Contemporary space stations including the Spacelab Salyut and International Space Station have used a CMG for vehicle stabilization. An issue with using a CMG for larger space stations is that the momentum size for the space station must be known to set the momentum size required to stabilize and control the space station.

During the assembly of the International Space Station ISS a full size CMG array was sent into space with the first module of the ISS. The CMG array had an initial configuration which far underused the initial momentum but was right sized for the final ISS momentum. For any large space station constructed beyond Low Earth Orbit LEO the physical size of the CMG array required is so large that it cannot be transported in the space vehicles now in use. As such current sizing methods require a final design of the next space station and do not allow the flexibility that is required for future NASA missions.

A method of deploying a modular space station is provided. The method comprises placing an initial space station module in space in a first deployment the initial space station module including a first control law and momentum component that provides an initial solution for guidance navigation and control of the initial space station module during the first deployment. A first space station modular segment is joined with the initial space station module in a second deployment to produce a first joint configuration of the modular space station. A second control law and momentum component provides a second solution for guidance navigation and control of the first joint configuration of the modular space station during the second deployment. A second space station modular segment is joined to the first joint configuration of the modular space station in a third deployment to produce a second joint configuration of the modular space station. A third control law and momentum component provides a third solution for guidance navigation and control of the second joint configuration of the modular space station during the third deployment.

In the following detailed description embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized without departing from the scope of the invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

A method and system for configuring space station momentum size requirements provides enhanced attitude control and flexibility when modular space station structures are joined together in space.

In one embodiment a spacecraft with an onboard space station modular segment can be employed to transport a control moment gyroscope CMG array or other momentum control device that has been sized with the appropriate momentum space associated with the modular segment. The control law located in a vehicle flight computer can contain a table that defines the control parameters and mass properties of the space station segment to be controlled including but not limited to the moments of inertia and center of mass of the vehicle. Additionally the table can contain the momentum and torque vector information describing the CMG array contained within the modular segment.

In order to meet mission safety protocols partitioned software applications for guidance navigation and control GNC are provided by the control law located in the vehicle flight computer. The GNC applications are implemented using time and space partitioning which allows dynamic but predetermined switchover from a current GNC configuration to a next GNC configuration.

When the modular segment is joined to the space station a central computer can be used to combine control of the CMG array of the modular segment with the control of other CMG arrays already contained in the space station. The central computer provides vehicle control law that includes the CMG array steering law and control instructions that cause the CMG arrays of the joined modular segments to produce a desired space station vehicle attitude control.

The present approach solves the problem of large CMGs and oversized momentum for modular space stations assembled in space.

Further details of the present method and system are described hereafter with reference to the drawings.

A first space station modular segment is added block by launching modular segment into space. The modular segment is then joined with space station module in a second deployment block which produces a first joint configuration of the modular space station. A second control law and momentum component block provides a second solution for guidance navigation and control of the first joint configuration of the modular space station during the second deployment.

A second space station modular segment can be added block by launching modular segment into space. The modular segment is then joined with space station module already coupled with modular segment in a third deployment block which produces a second joint configuration of the modular space station. A third control law and momentum component block provides a third solution for guidance navigation and control of the second joint configuration of the modular space station during the third deployment.

Although only two modular segments are depicted in the method of it should be understood that additional modular segments can be added to the modular space station as needed using the procedures described herein.

The momentum exchange section houses an array of momentum control devices such as a CMG array which embodies the required momentum storage for a given deployment. For example momentum exchange system can include the momentum storage required for the first deployment of initial space station module . In one embodiment a plurality of control momentum assemblies that each includes a CMG can be located in momentum exchange section to produce CMG array . In an alternative embodiment the momentum control devices can include a plurality of reaction wheels.

The attitude control electronics section includes at least one flight computer processor and an attitude control law with processor hosting the operation of control law . A software attitude control component described in further detail hereafter is the software that implements control law . The software for control law provides instructions executable by processor for guidance navigation and control.

The attitude sensors also operatively communicate with control law as executed by processor . The attitude sensors can include but are not limited to Inertial Measurement Units IMUs accelerometers star trackers and sun sensors. The attitude sensors provide inertial data and other information used by attitude control electronics section in controlling CMG array .

Additional CMG arrays with appropriate momentum storage can be transported into space with additional modular segments that are to be joined with the space station. For example a second momentum exchange section with a CMG array can be transported with modular segment and connected to attitude control electronics section in the second deployment of the space station. Likewise a third momentum exchange section with a CMG array can be transported with modular segment and connected to attitude control electronics section in the third deployment of the space station.

The software architecture also includes various software partitions. In one embodiment an input output I O partition is in operative communication with operating system . The I O partition includes virtual backplane communications which provide the information exchange between the flight computer and control law and the attitude sensors and the momentum exchange. The I O partition can also include an Ethernet interface analog I O discrete I O a MIL STD 1553 interface an RS 422 interface as well as other common software SW components. MIL STD 1553 is a military standard published by the United States Department of Defense that defines the mechanical electrical and functional characteristics of a serial data bus. RS 422 is a technical standard that specifies electrical characteristics of a digital signaling circuit. The I O partition also includes an API such as an ARINC 653 API that allows I O partition to interact with operating system . The I O partition may house all of the I O drivers and assures that the I O data is moved to and from various partitions and applications according to pre defined table entries.

A safety partition is also in operative communication with operating system . The safety partition provides safety rules that enforce safe operations during momentum changes as a new modular segment is joined to the space station. The safety partition also includes an API such as an ARINC 653 API that allows safety partition to interact with operating system as well as other common software components.

The software architecture further includes a plurality of applications that are in operative communication with operating system .

A first application labeled Application A provides an initial solution for control law in attitude control system inclusive of guidance navigation and control GNC for a first deployment of the modular space station. The first application also includes use of common software library elements and an API such as an ARINC 653 API that allows application to interact with operating system .

A second application labeled Application A provides a second solution for control law in attitude control system inclusive of GNC for a second deployment of the modular space station such as a first modular segment added to the initially deployed space station. The second application also includes other common software library elements and an API such as an ARINC 653 API that allows application to interact with operating system .

A third application labeled Application A provides a third solution for control law in attitude control system inclusive of GNC for a third deployment of the modular space station such as a second modular segment added to the space station already coupled with the first modular segment. The third application also includes other common software library elements and an API such as an ARINC 653 API that allows application to interact with operating system .

A fourth application labeled Application C provides mission manager and other functions during the various deployments of the space station. The fourth application also includes other common software library elements and an API such as an ARINC 653 API that allows application to interact with operating system . There may be one or more additional applications as necessary to implement the required space station vehicle operation.

The vehicle operation software architecture can also include various other standard software elements as necessary to allow operation of the flight computer processor . For example resident and non resident boot elements can be implemented and are in operative communication with operating system . The resident boot element can include resident boot initialization and a first hardware abstraction layer HAL . The non resident boot element can include non resident boot initialization and a second hardware abstraction layer HAL as well as a power up boot a phantom fault response a software loader platform load verification module load verification and cabinet initialization.

A board support package BSP can be implemented and is in operative communication with operating system . The BSP provides the software elements that are a custom match to the specific hardware that implements the flight computer processor . A middleware module can also be implemented and is in operative communication with operating system . The middleware module provides the functions that interface between operating system and BSP . These middleware functions can include but are not limited to exception handling fault recording synchronization interface to debug tools and time services.

In one approach each of the first second and third configurations of software architecture can be respectively transported into space with the initial space station module and with the additional modular segments that are to be joined with the space station. For example the first configuration can be transported with the initial space station module the second configuration can be transported with modular segment and the third configuration can be transported with modular segment .

Alternatively each of the first second and third configurations of software architecture can be transported into space with the initial space station module. Each of the configurations of software architecture can then be implemented during the respective deployments of the space station as additional modular segments are added.

For the next stage of process a second configuration of the GNC software control is created block such as the second configuration of software architecture in which second application contains the second solution for control law . This provides the attitude control element for vehicle operation during a second deployment of the space station. The second configuration of the GNC software control is incorporated in a first modular segment which is launched in a spacecraft such as a rocket block into space. The modular segment is joined with space station module resulting in the second deployment of the space station block .

In the second deployment the GNC software control is reconfigured from the first configuration to the second configuration by conventional techniques such as a dynamic switch partition block and virtual backplane fusing block . These techniques are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 421 526 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. The process then validates that the reconfiguration happened block such as through the validation technique disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 8 175 759 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In the next stage of process a third configuration of the GNC software control is created block such as the third configuration of software architecture in which third application contains the third solution for control law . This provides the attitude control element for vehicle operation during a third deployment of the space station. The third configuration of the GNC software control is incorporated in a second modular segment which is launched in a spacecraft such as a rocket block into space. The modular segment is joined with space station module already coupled with modular segment resulting in the third deployment of the space station block .

In the third deployment the GNC software control is reconfigured from the second configuration to the third configuration by conventional techniques such as the dynamic switch partition block and virtual backplane fusing block as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 421 526. The process then validates that this reconfiguration happened block such as through the validation technique disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 8 175 759.

It should be understood that additional modular segments can be added to the space station in further deployments using the process of .

The software architecture also includes various software partitions. In one embodiment an I O partition is in operative communication with operating system . The I O partition includes virtual backplane communications which provide the information exchange between the flight computer and control law and the attitude sensors and the momentum exchange. The I O partition can also include an Ethernet interface analog I O discrete I O a MIL STD 1553 interface an RS 422 interface as well as other common software components. The Ute partition also includes an API such as an ARINC 653 API that allows I O partition to interact with operating system .

A safety partition is also in operative communication with operating system . The safety partition provides functions that enforce safe operations during momentum changes as well as other common software components. The safety partition also includes an API such as an ARINC 653 API that allows safety partition to interact with operating system .

The software architecture further includes a plurality of applications that are in operative communication with operating system .

A first application labeled Application A is configured to provide guidance navigation and control and includes an adaptive navigation solution algorithm. The first application also includes use of common software library elements and an API such as an ARINC 653 API that allows application to interact with operating system .

A second application labeled Application B is configured to provide mission manager functions during the various deployments of the space station. The second application also includes other common software library elements and an API such as an ARINC 653 API that allows application to interact with operating system .

A third application labeled Application C and fourth application labeled Application D are configured to provide other functions as needed in the various deployments of the space station. The third and fourth applications also include other common software library elements and APIs such as ARINC 653 APIs that allow for interaction with operating system . There may be one or more additional applications as necessary to implement the required space station vehicle operation.

The vehicle operation software architecture can also include various other standard software elements as necessary to allow operation of a flight computer processor. For example resident and non resident boot elements can be implemented and are in operative communication with operating system . A board support package can be implemented and is in operative communication with operating system . A middleware module can also be implemented and is in operative communication with operating system .

For the next stage of process a first configuration of a blended solution for GNC software control is produced block such as by using the adaptive navigation solution algorithm in application to produce a first blended solution for control law . This provides the attitude control element for vehicle operation during a second deployment of the space station. The first configuration of the blended solution is incorporated in a first modular segment which is launched in a spacecraft block into space. The modular segment is joined with space station module resulting in the second deployment of the space station block .

In the second deployment the GNC software control is reconfigured from the initial configuration to the first configuration of the blended solution by conventional techniques such as virtual backplane fusing block as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 421 526. The process then validates that the reconfiguration happened block such as through the validation technique disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 8 175 759.

In the next stage of process a second configuration of a blended solution for GNC software control is produced block such as by using the adaptive navigation solution algorithm in application to produce a second blended solution for control law . This provides the attitude control element for vehicle operation during a third deployment of the space station. The second configuration of the blended solution is incorporated in a second modular segment which is launched in a spacecraft block into space. The modular segment is joined with space station module already coupled with modular segment resulting in the third deployment of the space station block .

In the third deployment the GNC software control is reconfigured from the first configuration of the blended solution to the second configuration of the blended solution by conventional techniques such as virtual backplane fusing block as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 421 526. The process then validates that the reconfiguration happened block such as through the validation technique disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 8 175 759.

It should be understood that additional modular segments can be added to the space station in further deployments using the process of .

A computer or processor used in the present system and method can be implemented using software firmware hardware or any appropriate combination thereof as known to one of skill in the art. These may be supplemented by or incorporated in specially designed application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . The computer or processor can also include functions with software programs firmware or other computer readable instructions for carrying out various process tasks calculations and control functions used in the present method and system.

The present methods can be implemented by computer executable instructions such as program modules or components which are executed by at least one processor. Generally program modules include routines programs objects data components data structures algorithms and the like which perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.

Instructions for carrying out the various process tasks calculations and generation of other data used in the operation of the methods described herein can be implemented in software firmware or other computer or processor readable instructions. These instructions are typically stored on any appropriate computer program product that includes a computer readable medium used for storage of computer readable instructions or data structures. Such a computer readable medium can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or processor or any programmable logic device.

Suitable processor readable media may include storage or memory media such as magnetic or optical media. For example storage or memory media may include conventional hard disks compact disks DVDs Blu ray discs or other optical storage disks volatile or non volatile media such as Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory and the like or any other media that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures.

Example 1 includes a method of deploying a modular space station the method comprising placing an initial space station module in space in a first deployment the initial space station module including a first control law and momentum component that provides an initial solution for guidance navigation and control of the initial space station module during the first deployment joining a first space station modular segment with the initial space station module in a second deployment to produce a first joint configuration of the modular space station wherein a second control law and momentum component provides a second solution for guidance navigation and control of the first joint configuration of the modular space station during the second deployment and joining a second space station modular segment to the first joint configuration of the modular space station in a third deployment to produce a second joint configuration of the modular space station wherein a third control law and momentum component provides a third solution for guidance navigation and control of the second joint configuration of the modular space station during the third deployment.

Example 2 includes the method of Example 1 wherein the initial space station module has an attitude control system that includes the first control law and momentum component.

Example 3 includes the method of Example 2 wherein the attitude control system comprises an attitude control electronics section comprising at least one flight computer processor configured to execute instructions for operation of the control laws in providing guidance navigation and control for the space station a first momentum exchange section in operative communication with the attitude control electronics section the first momentum exchange section comprising a first array of momentum control devices that include momentum storage for the initial space station module and one or more attitude sensors in operative communication with the attitude control electronics section.

Example 4 includes the method of Example 3 wherein the first array of momentum control devices includes a plurality of control moment gyroscopes or reaction wheels.

Example 5 includes the method of any of Examples 3 4 wherein the first space station modular segment includes a second momentum exchange section comprising a second array of momentum control devices that include momentum storage for the first space station modular segment.

Example 6 includes the method of Example 5 wherein the second space station modular segment includes a third momentum exchange section comprising a third array of momentum control devices that include momentum storage for the second space station modular segment.

Example 7 includes the method of any of Examples 1 6 wherein each of the control laws is implemented by one or more software applications in operative communication with an avionics operating system.

Example 8 includes the method of Example 7 wherein the software applications comprise a first application that provides the initial solution for guidance navigation and control of the initial space station module during the first deployment a second application that provides the second solution for guidance navigation and control of the first joint configuration of the modular space station during the second deployment and a third application that provides the third solution for guidance navigation and control of the second joint configuration of the modular space station during the third deployment.

Example 9 includes the method of Example 8 wherein during the first deployment the first application is active while the second and third applications are inactive.

Example 10 includes the method of Examples 8 wherein during the second deployment the second application is active while the first and third applications are inactive.

Example 11 includes the method of Example 8 wherein during the third deployment the third application is active while the first and second applications are inactive.

Example 12 includes the method of Example 7 wherein one of the software applications comprises an adaptive navigation solution algorithm.

Example 13 includes the method of Example 12 wherein the adaptive navigation solution algorithm is configured to provide the initial solution for guidance navigation and control during the first deployment of the space station provide the second solution as a first blended solution for guidance navigation and control during the second deployment of the space station and provide the third solution as a second blended solution for guidance navigation and control during the third deployment of the space station.

Example 14 includes an attitude control system for a modular space station comprising an attitude control electronics section comprising at least one flight computer processor configured to execute instructions for operation of a control law in providing guidance navigation and control for the space station a first momentum exchange section in operative communication with the attitude control electronics section the first momentum exchange section comprising a first array of momentum control devices that include momentum storage for an initial space station module and one or more attitude sensors in operative communication with the attitude control electronics section wherein the control law is implemented by a plurality of software applications comprising a first application that provides an initial solution for guidance navigation and control of a first deployment of the space station in which the initial space station module is placed in space a second application that provides a second solution for guidance navigation and control of a second deployment of the space station in which a first space station modular segment is joined to the initial space station module to produce a first configuration of the space station and a third application that provides a third solution for guidance navigation and control of a third deployment of the space station in which a second space station modular segment is joined to the first configuration of the space station to produce a second configuration of the space station.

Example 15 includes the system of Example 14 wherein the first array of momentum control devices comprises a plurality of control moment gyroscopes or a plurality of reaction wheels.

Example 16 includes the system of any of Examples 14 15 further comprising a second momentum exchange section in operative communication with the attitude control electronics section the second momentum exchange section comprising a second array of momentum control devices that include momentum storage for the first space station modular segment.

Example 17 includes the system of Example 16 further comprising a third momentum exchange section in operative communication with the attitude control electronics section the third momentum exchange section comprising a third array of momentum control devices that include momentum storage for the second space station modular segment.

Example 18 includes an attitude control system for a modular space station comprising an attitude control electronics section comprising at least one flight computer processor configured to execute instructions for operation of a control law in providing guidance navigation and control for the space station a first momentum exchange section in operative communication with the attitude control electronics section the first momentum exchange section comprising a first array of momentum control devices that include momentum storage for an initial space station module and one or more attitude sensors in operative communication with the attitude control electronics section wherein the control law is implemented by a software application comprising an adaptive navigation solution algorithm wherein the adaptive navigation solution algorithm is configured to provide an initial solution for guidance navigation and control of a first deployment of the space station in which the initial space station module is placed in space provide a first blended solution for guidance navigation and control during a second deployment of the space station in which a first space station modular segment is joined to the initial space station module to produce a first configuration of the space station and provide a second blended solution for guidance navigation and control during a third deployment of the space station in which a second space station modular segment is joined to the first configuration of the space station.

Example 19 includes the system of Example 18 further comprising a second momentum exchange section in operative communication with the attitude control electronics section the second momentum exchange section comprising a second array of momentum control devices that include momentum storage for the first space station modular segment.

Example 20 includes the system of Example 19 further comprising a third momentum exchange section in operative communication with the attitude control electronics section the third momentum exchange section comprising a third array of momentum control devices that include momentum storage for the second space station modular segment.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

