---

title: Armrest expansion device
abstract: An armrest expansion device. The armrest expansion device can include two or more planar housings and couplings for reversibly coupling the device to a pre-existing armrest, for example a commercial passenger vehicle's armrest, or any other desired armrest. At least one of the planar housings may extend the useable area available as an armrest. Further, the armrest expansion device may additionally increase the effective height of the pre-existing armrest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09468302&OS=09468302&RS=09468302
owner: 
number: 09468302
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140113
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 849 865 filed Feb. 4 2013 and entitled ARMREST EXPANSION DEVICE the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Armrests are often inadequate or insufficient in mass transit cabins such as those found in the coach or economy classes of most commercial airline aircraft today especially for passengers seated in an adjacent fashion. Typically in these scenarios an identically sized armrest which is utilized to support passengers seated at the ends of a row of seats i.e. without the possibility of a passenger being seated next to them on at least one side is also utilized in between seats where two passengers may be seated immediately next to each other. These passengers will often find it awkward or impossible to share the surface area of the armrest provided and visible signs of passenger discomfort can be easily perceived. Also these armrests may be require passengers to slouch or lean in order to reach them because of the armrest s inadequate relative height to the passenger s seat.

It is noteworthy that this problem does not typically exist in premium cabins where passengers pay more for additional space. Armrests which separate passengers are typically much larger in all dimensions in these cabins and usually eliminate the need to share a single armrest between passengers. Subsequently it is assumed that the primary reasons that current technology is insufficient to address the problem have to do with a commercial airline s business goals. Those goals include maximizing the number of passengers or passenger seating within the space of the economy cabins while minimizing the acquisition and maintenance costs of the seating which is typically installed in the aircraft by a third party. In addition this problem may also provide airline customers with additional incentives to purchase more comfortable hence more expensive seats.

As previously mentioned the general problem of insufficient armrest space is not unique to aircraft cabins it may also be found on a variety of commercial vehicles which have been designed for maximum passenger occupancy at the expense of some passenger comfort. Public theaters and viewing venues also commonly present similar problems. Other issues may exist with commercial armrests in general such as the level of the armrest being lower than would be ergonomically comfortable for a passenger to use or the armrest surface may be insufficiently soft or padded for a passenger s comfort. These additional issues may be related or unrelated to the primary problem of insufficient space.

An armrest expansion device may be described herein. The armrest expansion device can include two or more planar housings and couplings for reversibly coupling the device to a pre existing armrest for example a commercial passenger vehicle s armrest. At least one of the planar housings may extend the useable area available as an armrest. Further the armrest expansion device may additionally increase the effective height or user comfort of the pre existing armrest.

Aspects of the present invention are disclosed in the following description and related figures directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Those skilled in the art will recognize that alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the spirit or the scope of the claims. Additionally well known elements of exemplary embodiments of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

As used herein the word exemplary means serving as an example instance or illustration. The embodiments described herein are not limiting but rather are exemplary only. It should be understood that the described embodiments are not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Moreover the terms embodiments of the invention embodiments or invention do not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Generally referring to the accompanying drawings an armrest expansion device may be formed in any of a variety of manners and may be used in any of a variety of situations. An exemplary embodiment may appear similar to device although other forms and designs are envisioned. An exemplary situation where the device might be used is on commercial travel vehicles such as an airplane where the armrest between two seated passengers is deemed to be insufficient for both travelers to utilize.

Referring to exemplary and exemplary device may include a middle planar housing a near side planar housing and a far side planar housing . Middle planar housing may be coupled to near side planar housing and far side planar housing by way of axles . Middle planar housing near side planar housing far side planar housing and axles may be made of any substantially rigid material such as rigid plastic or any other material known or used in the art for example materials which may keep the weight of device low so as to facilitate ease of carrying by a user. Further device may be formed with any desired materials such that it may be mated with a host armrest without any damage to the host armrest by device . Near side planar housing and far side planar housing may be in an open position when they are substantially perpendicular to middle planar housing as shown in exemplary and exemplary and said housings and may be in a closed position when they are substantially parallel to middle planar housing as shown in exemplary and exemplary . Near side planar housing and far side planar housing may both be closed at the same time as in exemplary and exemplary or may be both be open at the same time as in exemplary and exemplary or one may be open and one may be closed as in exemplary . As discussed in further exemplary embodiments below device may be used in a variety of configurations as desired. For example a far side portion in exemplary may be closed whereas a near side portion may be opened. However it may be appreciated that any desired configuration or orientation may be utilized as desired.

Near side planar housing may include near side pad . Further middle planar housing may include middle pad and far side planar housing may include far side pad . Near side pad middle pad and far side pad may be somewhat soft to the touch and may be made of cloth leather foam composites synthetic or any other material known or used in the art as desired. Further near side pad middle pad and far side pad may be permanently or reversibly adhered to near side planar housing middle planar housing and far side planar housing respectively.

Referring to exemplary middle planar housing may include one or more notched axle receivers and near side planar housing may include one or more near side axle receivers . Notched axle receivers and near side axle receivers may have a bore running substantially parallel to the long axis of device and may have substantially the same diameter as axle . This can allow axle to pass through both the bores of notched axle receivers and near side axle receivers simultaneously. Referring to exemplary middle planar housing may include one or more cut axle receivers and far side planar housing may include one or more far side axle receivers . Cut axle receivers and far side axle receivers may have a bore running substantially parallel to the long axis of device and may have substantially the same diameter as axle . As above this can allow axle to pass through both the bores of cut axle receivers and far side axle receivers simultaneously. Axles may be secured in their respective bores using any desired method including but not limited to bolting threaded ends of the axles to the planar housings or utilizing a torque force to screw threading on the axles into their housings.

As shown in exemplary far side planar housing may further include ridge . Ridge may be of sufficient size to arrest further rotational motion around axle when far side planar housing becomes substantially perpendicular to middle planar housing for example in its open position as shown in exemplary .

Referring now to exemplary and exemplary near side planar housing may include unlocking tab . Unlocking tab may be used to functionally unlock near side planar housing from either of the closed or open positions as described in further detail below.

In exemplary far side planar housing may include locking key . Locking key may move along far side planar housing in such a fashion as to customizably fit different sized pre existing armrests wherein the top portion of such pre existing armrests would be received substantially in the space between middle planar housing far side planar housing and locking key . Middle planar housing may include key slot as shown in . Key slot may have dimensions substantially similar to locking key such that locking key may be received by key slot when far side planar housing is in a closed position as shown in exemplary . In a further exemplary embodiment when far side planar housing is in a closed position the receiving of locking key inside key slot may provide a small space between middle planar housing and far side planar housing thereby allowing a user to more easily open far side planar housing with for example a finger or any desired tool.

In another embodiment far side planar housing may receive slide locking mechanism in a receiving groove. The receiving groove of far side planar housing may be designed and oriented to allow far side locking mechanism to glide along guiding rods of far side planar housing a predetermined distance or length. Further when far side locking mechanism is located such that locking key is seated inside key slot that is when far side planar housing is in the closed position the empty part of the sliding groove may provide a spacing between far side planar housing and middle planar housing to allow for the use of a finger to open far side planar housing without the need to pry apart the pieces with difficulty.

Far side planar housing may have a joint cut . Joint cut may have an angle substantially similar to 90 degrees such that when far side planar housing is in an open position the angle of joint cut substantially matches the angle between middle planar housing and far side planar housing . As seen in exemplary and described in more detail below middle planar housing may also have joint cut . Joint cuts may be arranged such that when far side planar housing is in an open position joint cuts create a substantially continuous angle running along the long axis of device between middle planar housing and far side planar housing .

Referring now to exemplary near side pad and middle pad may together be a size substantially similar to far side pad . Alternatively near side pad may be narrower or wider which can allow for near side planar housing to be correspondingly narrower or wider which in turn may allow for more or less seat room. A user may utilize combined near side pad and middle pad allowing another passenger or user to utilize far side pad . Far side planar housing may include spacing which may serve as a separator between the user s area of use of combined near side pad and middle pad and another passenger s area of use of far side pad .

Referring generally to exemplary near side pad may include one or more adhesive tabs . In one exemplary embodiment adhesive tabs may have a thickness of about 0.125 inches.

In a further exemplary embodiment and with reference to exemplary near side planar housing may include near side locking mechanism . One end of near side locking mechanism may incorporate unlocking tab as shown in . A second end of near side locking mechanism may include one or more wedges which may substantially fit into upper notches and lower notches in middle planar housing . While wedges can be received by either upper notches or lower notches as shown in exemplary near side planar housing may be substantially locked and fixed in position. Additionally it may be appreciated that wedges may be wedges in name only insofar as other shapes or designs may be used to substantially fit into upper notches and lower notches . Upper notches and lower notches may be oriented and sized such that near side planar housing may be locked only in the open and closed positions as shown in exemplary or as desired. Near side locking mechanism may be coupled to near side planar housing by way of guiding rods and spring shown in . Guiding rods and spring may be oriented such that near side locking mechanism can move substantially within the plane of near side planar housing as shown in exemplary . Guiding rods may fit substantially within rod bores such that near side locking mechanism can glide smoothly along guiding rods as seen in exemplary . Spring may be coupled to near side locking mechanism and near side planar housing at spring attachment points as shown in exemplary . Spring may be coupled to near side locking mechanism and near side planar housing by hook head threaded attachment devices or in any other fashion as desired.

Far side planar housing may include far side locking mechanism which may incorporate locking key as shown in exemplary . Far side locking mechanism may be coupled to far side planar housing by way of one or more guiding rods and springs . Guiding rods and springs may be oriented such that far side locking mechanism moves substantially within the plane of far side planar housing as shown in exemplary . Guiding rods may fit substantially within rod bores such that far side locking mechanism may glide smoothly along guiding rods . Springs may be coupled to far side locking mechanism and far side planar housing at spring attachment points . Springs may be coupled to far side locking mechanism and far side planar housing by hook head threaded attachment devices or in any other fashion as desired. Further springs may have a strength and length such that when far side planar housing is in the closed position and locking key may be received substantially in key slot springs generate a slight friction force to maintain far side planar housing substantially in the closed position. Further springs have a strength and length such that when far side planar housing is in the open position locking key may be stretched as far as desired along far side planar housing so as to allow for spring tension substantially sufficient to grip a commercial vehicle s armrest between locking key and middle planar housing .

Additionally in another exemplary embodiment shown in far side lock stopper may be shown. Far side lock stopper may be modified in any of a variety of manners without changing the size of the far side planar housing . For example the size of far side lock stopper may be adjusted so as to prevent proximity to axle . The adjustability of far side lock stopper may be such that it is built into the structure of far side lock stopper so as to allow a desired range of adjustments without changing out the component. Alternatively far side lock stopper may be such that it interchangeable with other lock stoppers of different sizes to provide adjustability.

Referring to exemplary middle planar housing and far side planar housing may include spacing . Spacing may be of a size to snugly receive far side planar housing when far side planar housing is in the closed position as shown in exemplary .

In further exemplary embodiments springs may be slightly extended by about 0.125 inches when device is in the closed position and locking key is received by key slot . A slight extension of 0.125 inches of springs may generate a force that can hold device closed but may also be such that it may be overcome by a user s finger or an application of a similar tool. Further it is envisioned that far side locking mechanism may extend about 1.5 inches to a substantially full extension of springs to allow for a tension force to hold device in place upon a commercial passenger vehicle armrest. In one exemplary embodiment the distance between the at rest position of locking key and joint cuts may be about 2.25 inches which can allow the use of device with any commercial armrest of width between about 2.25 and about 3.75 inches for example widths between about 3.0 and about 3.75 inches to allow for the generation of a sufficient or desired tension force in springs and substantially minimize overhang of far side planar housing beyond a far edge of the commercial host armrest. It may be appreciated however that these dimensions and the associated components that allow for fitting and adjustment may be varied as desired in order to provide for any size armrest or other adjustments c . In another exemplary embodiment positioning of the far side planar housing may be such that it covers an entirety of a host armrest an entire width of a host armrest or a desired portion of the host armrest. Additionally other sizes scaling and dimensions may be used to accommodate these or other sizes of commercial armrests as desired.

In one exemplary embodiment spring may have a stiffness ratio between about 10 and about 20 lbs in and springs may each have a stiffness ratio between about 20 and about 25 lbs in. Both springs may have at rest lengths of about 0.5 inches.

Referring now to exemplary middle planar housing may include middle pad housing . Middle pad housing may be used to couple middle planar housing to middle pad . In one exemplary embodiment middle pad housing may have a depression on the top of middle planar housing with dimensions of about 1 10 0.1 inches.

Near side planar housing may include near side pad housing . Near side pad housing may be used to couple near side planar housing to near side pad . In one exemplary embodiment near side pad housing may have tabs extending into the interior of and depressions in near side planar housing . Tabs of near side pad housing may also extend to a greater or lesser extent into the interior of near side planar housing as desired. In one exemplary embodiment the interior space of near side planar housing above near side pad housing may have dimensions of about 2 10 0.125 inches.

Far side planar housing may include far side pad housing . Far side pad housing may be used to couple far side planar housing to far side pad . In one exemplary embodiment far side pad housing may have tabs which protrude about 0.25 inches into the interior of far side planar housing and may be located below the surface of far side planar housing to create a gap of about 0.125 inches between the top of far side pad housing and the top of far side planar housing . Additionally far side pad housing may be wider or narrower or extend throughout the entire interior of far side planar housing as desired. In one exemplary embodiment the interior space of far side planar housing above far side pad housing may be about 3 10 0.125 inches.

In further exemplary embodiments any surface on device which is may come in contact with a commercial vehicle s armrest may be covered with a material that creates a high static friction including but not limited to rubber silicone or suction creating material. Further exemplary embodiments may utilize a sleeve disposed around an armrest that may create a desired couple or protect the armrest or otherwise prevent damage or marking of the armrest.

Referring to the exemplary figures described above and also to exemplary in the operation of device a user may transport device while in the closed position where middle planar housing near side planar housing and far side planar housing may be substantially parallel to each other. In the closed position near side planar housing may be held substantially in place by near side locking mechanism by springs keeping wedges substantially seated in lower notches far side planar housing may be held in place by far side locking mechanism by springs creating sufficient force to push locking key against the interior of key slot to create a frictional force that substantially holds far side planar housing in a desired position.

Upon locating a pre existing armrest a user may open far side planar housing by swinging up far side planar housing along axle to the open position pulling locking key along far side planar housing and seating far side planar housing upon the pre existing armrest allowing springs to pull locking key back to properly seat commercial vehicle s armrest in the space between middle planar housing joint cuts and far side planar housing and locking key . The user may then open near side planar housing by pulling on unlocking tab to disengage wedges from lower notches and swinging near side planar housing into the open position along axle . Once reaching the open position spring may cause wedges to engage with upper notches locking near side planar housing in place to create an additional armrest space for the user as shown in exemplary . Placement of device upon a commercial vehicles pre existing armrest may additionally increase the effective height of armrest space available to the user which may be ergonomically preferred.

Other exemplary embodiments may also be envisioned. In one embodiment upper notches may be extended through near side planar housing and near side locking mechanism may be modified to have wedges substantially fit within the expanded notches. This extension of upper notches may increase the force bearable by near side planar housing while device is in the open position.

In another exemplary embodiment two armrests could be attached about their longest axes by torsion springs with 180 degree deflection angles and when folded together the two armrests could fit into a U shaped plane or canal of semi rigid material such as a plastic of a desired thickness to create a the necessary rigidity. When removed from the canal the two armrests could expand into a parallel configuration through the extension of the springs now unimpeded by the plastic canal. The plastic canal now empty could be inverted to attach to the top of a host armrest utilizing a slight expansion and downward force to mold or attach to to the host armrest. Next an attaching mechanism would be required to affix the two parallel armrests to the U shaped plastic mold that is now attached to the host armrest.

In an additional embodiment the device may elect not to replace and improve upon the host armrest perhaps leaving it intact and fully available to the adjacent passenger. Such a design choice may be the consequence of targeting host armrests with airline provided electronics across the top of said host armrest. One way to accommodate such a design consideration would be to connect to the device to the bottom typically unused portion of the airline s armrest and only produce the adjacent new armrest space for the user from this different anchoring vantage point.

