---

title: Medical professional application integration into electronic health record system
abstract: Embodiments relate to integrating data collection and productivity applications with an EHR system. To integrate a patient's data collection application with the EHR system, an EHR server provides API calls to (i) retrieve patient information, (ii) post data to the patient's account, and (iii) post data to the medical professional's account. To integrate a medical professional's productivity application with the EHR system, an EHR server provides API calls to (i) retrieve practice information, (ii) retrieve patient information, and (iii) post data to the medical professional's account. Embodiments securely provide these APIs to third party providers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09208284&OS=09208284&RS=09208284
owner: Practice Fusion, Inc.
number: 09208284
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140627
---
Medical records related to a patient s health information are essential to the practice of medical care. Traditionally medical records were paper based documents. The emergence of electronic health record EHR systems offers medical professionals and patients with new functionalities that paper based medical records cannot provide. An EHR sometimes known as electronic medical record EMR is a collection of electronically stored information about an individual patient s lifetime health status and health care. EHRs may include a broad range of data including demographics medical history medication and allergies immunization status laboratory test results radiology images vital signs personal statistics like age and weight and billing information. Many commercial EHR systems combine data from a number of health care services and providers such as clinical care facilities laboratories radiology providers and pharmacies.

EHRs are a drastic improvement over paper based medical records. Paper based medical records require a large amount of storage space. Paper records are often stored in different locations and different medical professionals may each have different and incomplete records about the same patient. Obtaining paper records from multiple locations for review by a health care provider can be time consuming and complicated. In contrast EHR data is stored in digital format and thus can be accessed from anywhere. EHR systems significantly simplify the reviewing process for health care providers. Because data in EHRs can be linked together EHRs vastly improve the accessibility of health records and the coordination of medical care.

EHRs also decrease the risk of misreading errors by health care professionals. Poor legibility is often associated with handwritten paper medical records which can lead to medical errors. EHRs on the other hand are inherently legible given that they are typically stored in typeface. In addition electronic medical records enhance the standardization of forms terminology and abbreviations and data input which help ensure reliability of medical records. Further EHRs can be transferred electronically thus reducing delays and errors in recording prescriptions or communicating laboratory test results.

The benefits of digitizing health records are substantial. Health care providers with EHR systems have reported better outcomes fewer complications lower costs and fewer malpractice claim payments. But despite EHRs potential in drastically improving the quality of medical care only a low percentage of health care providers use EHR systems. While the advantages of EHRs are significant they also carry concerns including security and privacy risks high costs lost productivity during EHR implementation or computer downtime and lack of EHR usability.

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA enacted in the U.S. in 1996 establishes rules for access authentication storage auditing and transmittal of medical records. HIPPA sets a limit as to what health information can be disclosed to third parties and who can view a patient s medical records. HIPPA protects information in electronic medical records such as information doctors and nurses input recorded conversations between a doctor and a patient and billing information. The HIPAA Security Rule effective on Apr. 20 2005 for most covered entities adds additional constraints to electronic data security and the storage and transmission of private health information PHI . Despite the regulatory restrictions privacy and security threats are still a major risk of the current EHR systems. The convenient and fast access to patients health records through an EHR system introduces a host of security concerns. Medical information in digital format is vulnerable to various privacy exploitations associated with hacking computer theft malicious attack or accidental disclosure. According to some estimates between 250 000 and 500 000 patients experience medical identity theft every year.

Additionally the high cost of EHRs also significantly hinders EHR adoption. A large number of physicians without EHRs have referred to initial capital costs as a barrier to adopting EHR systems. Cost concerns are even more severe in smaller health care settings because current EHR systems are more likely to provide cost savings for large integrated institutions than for small physician offices. During EHR technology s implementation productivity loss can further offset efficiency gains. The need to increase the size of information technology staff to maintain the system adds even more costs to EHR usages.

Usability is another major factor that holds back adoption of EHRs. It is particularly challenging to develop user friendly EHR systems. There is a wide range of data that needs to be integrated and connected. Complex information and analysis needs vary from setting to setting among health care provider groups and from function to function within a health care provider group. To some providers using electronic medical records can be tedious and time consuming and the complexity of some EHR systems renders the EHR usage less helpful. Some doctors and nurses also complain about the difficulty and the length of time to enter patients health information into the system.

Under utilization of EHR systems despite incentives and mandates from the government and the tremendous potential of EHRs in revolutionizing the health care system calls for better EHR systems that are secure cost effective efficient and user friendly.

Comprehensive EHR systems can provide capabilities far beyond simply storing patients medical records. Because EHR systems offer health care providers and their workforce members the ability to securely store and utilize structured health information EHR systems can have a profound impact on the quality of the health care system. In Framework for Strategic Action on Health Information Technology published on Jul. 21 2004 the Department of Health Human Services HHS outlined many purposes for EHR services. The outlined purposes include among other things improving health care outcomes and reducing costs reducing recordkeeping and duplication burdens improving resource utilization care coordination active quality and health status monitoring reducing treatment variability and promoting patients engagement in and ownership over their own health care.

Recent legislation has set goals and committed significant resources for health information technology IT . One of the many initiatives of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ARRA was to increase economic efficiency by spurring technological advances in science and health. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health HITECH Act passed as a part of ARRA allocated billions of dollars to adopt meaningful use of EHRs in the health care system. HITECH also mandates the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology ONC to define certification criteria for Certified EHR Technology. 

EHR systems satisfying Certified EHR Technology criteria are capable of performing a wide range of functions including entry and storage transmission and receipt of care summaries clinical decision support patient lists and education resources generation of public health submission data and patient engagement tools. Entry and storage is related to the ability to enter access and modify patient demographic information vital signs smoking status medications clinical and radiology laboratory orders and results. Transmission and receipt of care summaries involve the ability to receive incorporate display and transmit transition of care referral summaries. Clinical decision support features configurable clinical decision support tools including evidence based support interventions linked referential clinical decision support and drug drug and drug allergy interaction checks. Patient lists and education resources include the ability to create patient lists based on problems medications medication allergies demographics and laboratory test result values and the ability to identify patient specific education resources based on such data elements. Generating public health submission data allows users to create electronic immunization and syndromic surveillance data files that can be submitted to public health agencies. Patient engagement tools allow medical professionals to grant patients with an online means to view download and transmit their health information to a third party provide patients with clinical summaries after office visits and facilitate secure doctor patient messaging.

Devices exist that observe aspects of a patient s health. For example a blood glucose monitor available from Agamatrix Inc. of Salem N.H. collects blood glucose readings using a smartphone application. In addition devices exist that improve a doctor s productivity. For example healthcare speech recognition solutions available from Nuance Inc. of Salem N.H. enable a doctor to dictate healthcare information.

These devices do not directly integrate with current EHR systems. For the data produced by these systems to be entered into an EHR it often must be manually retyped into the patient record within the EHR. Or in some cases the collected data may be sent to a doctor s practice as a fax which must be converted to a PDF and imported into the patient s record.

In an embodiment a computer implemented method integrates a practice productivity application into an electronic health records EHR system. In the method an API call to retrieve patient or practice data from a medical records database on the EHR system is received. The API call includes a persistent security token for the medical professional and a persistent security token for a developer of the practice productivity application. In response to receipt of the API call authenticity of the persistent security token for the medical professional and the persistent security token for the practice productivity application is verified. And whether the medical professional has authorized the practice productivity application to retrieve the medical professional s patient or practice data from the medical records database is determined. If the medical professional s and developer s security tokens are determined to be authentic and the medical professional is determined to have authorized the practice productivity application to retrieve the medical professional s patient or practice data the patient or practice data is sent to the practice productivity application such that the practice productivity application provides a user experience customized according to the patient or practice data.

Further embodiments features and advantages of the invention as well as the structure and operation of the various embodiments are described in detail below with reference to accompanying drawings.

The drawing in which an element first appears is typically indicated by the leftmost digit or digits in the corresponding reference number. In the drawings like reference numbers may indicate identical or functionally similar elements.

Embodiments relate to integrating data collection and practice productivity applications with an EHR system. In the detailed description that follows references to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

EHR server interacts with a medical records database . Medical records database stores a history describing the health and treatment of various patients. Some of the stored data may be only accessible to the patient. Other data stored in medical records database may be accessible to both the physician and patient. Still other data may be accessible only to the physician. Medical record database may for example store records of observational data patient encounters lab results prescriptions and messages. In addition medical records database can include biographical information about a patient such as name address date of birth and information about a physician s practice such as specialty and number of employees.

Third party developers may develop applications that would benefit from interacting with medical records database . In an example a third party developer may want its application to be able to download patient biographical information patient records or practice information and automatically customize operation without having the patient or physician manually reenter the information. In another example an application may submit additional data to medical records database to the patient s records to the physician s records or to both. To enable these applications to interact with medical records database EHR server offers two sets of APIs physician interaction APIs and patient interaction APIs . Physician interaction APIs may be designed to interact with applications that increase physician productivity and patient interaction APIs may be designed to interact with applications that collect observational data about a patient.

The various applications may communicate with EHR server via a network . The applications may include a mobile device and that mobile device may communicate directly with EHR server . Or the mobile device may communicate with third party developer server and third party developer server may communicate with EHR server .

Diagram shows two mobile devices mobile device and mobile device . Mobile device has a user and mobile device has a user . As mentioned above users and may be patients or physicians. They could also be caretakers or other medical professionals such as office staff or nurses. Users and may download client applications that run on mobile device and mobile device and interact with EHR server .

As mentioned above the client applications on mobile devices and may communicate over network to submit data to EHR server . Network may be for example a wide area network such as the Internet. In some embodiments the client applications may also interact with devices local to the user. In diagram this is shown with a device .

Device may be a data collection device that communicates with mobile device using a short range communication channel . Short range communication channel may for example be a wired connection such as through a USB port or audio jack of mobile device . In addition or alternatively short range communication channel may be a wireless connection such as a Bluetooth or Wi Fi connection. In an example device may be activity vital signs tracker such as an AGAMATRIX blood glucose monitor made by Agamatrix Inc. of Salem N. Mex. that blood glucose levels. In other examples device may be an activity tracker. Device may communicate observational data describing the movement to mobile device via short range communication channel . Mobile device may submit that observational data to EHR server using patient interaction APIs . Once received at EHR server the observational data may be stored with the patient s health records in medical records database . In this way embodiments can integrate a patient data collection device with an EHR server.

In addition or alternatively to integrating patient data collection devices with an EHR server some embodiments integrate practice productivity applications with an EHR server. For example a mobile device may include a practice productivity application such as a transcribing application. Patient productivity applications may benefit from knowing information about a particular patient such as the patient that the physician is currently scheduled to see. To retrieve this information a practice productivity application may send a request for patient information to EHR server using physician interaction APIs . On receipt of the request EHR server may retrieve the patient information from medical records database and return the patient information to mobile device via network . In this way embodiments can integrate a practice productivity application with an EHR server.

The detailed description that follows describes operation of the APIs in more detail. In particular integration of the patient collection device and EHR server is described in more detail below with respect to and . Integration of the practice productivity application and EHR server is described in more detail below with respect to and .

Mobile device includes a data collection application that collects observational data about the patient. For example data collection application may collect vital signs data or observation of daily living ODL data. Data collection application may for example be prescribed by a physician. For example a physician may prescribe a blood glucose monitor to manage diabetes. In other embodiments data collection application may be physician prescription or may be obtained without needing a physician s direction. Data collection application may for example be purchased or retrieved from an online application marketplace.

Data collection application includes an EHR interface module a data collection module and security tokens . EHR interface module communicates with EHR server via network . To communicate with EHR server EHR interface module may send messages formatted according to a particular application programming interface API . The messages may be for example web service requests. They may include certain parameters specifying the action requested from EHR server and may be formatted as specified by the API. In response EHR interface module will receive the requested data from EHR server . The data transmitted in response may also be formatted as specified by the API. In one example the messages to and from EHR server may be formatted as structured XML messages.

Data collection module collects observation of daily living ODL data from a user. In one embodiment a user may directly enter the data into an interface presented by data collection module . The interface may for example periodically prompt the user for the data. In another embodiment mobile device may be equipped with sensors that data collection module uses to collect the data. For example mobile device may have accelerometer and GPS sensors that can be used to detect movement. In another example mobile device may have a camera that can be used to collect medical data such as healing of a wound over time. In yet another embodiment data collection module may interact with other devices using mobile device s short range communication channels. The other devices can be equipped with sensors to detect the ODL data. Examples of these types of devices include blood glucose monitors activity trackers and digital scales.

Finally data collection application includes tokens . Tokens are persistent security tokens that can be used to identify and authenticate the data collection application or its user. Tokens may include a token for the developer. For example the provider of EHR server may require that any application that interacts with it is pre certified. The developer may request access to EHR server s API from an EHR provider. After the provider has reviewed the application and determined that it is safe secure and medically appropriate the provider may grant access to the applications provided by the developer. To grant access the provider may issue a persistent security token that can be used to ensure that the API requests from data collection module are valid and authorized.

To access medical records database a mobile device sends requests via network to EHR server . As described above the request may come directly from mobile device . Or data collection application may be in communication with third party developer server and third party developer server may send the API request to EHR server . To service the API requests in an embodiment EHR server includes five modules token module authorization module verification module patient data collection module and alert module . Each module is discussed below.

Token module authorization module and verification module coordinate with a security database to authenticate the user and the developer and to ensure that the user s data is only being used in the manner the user authorized.

During setup the user may be directed to EHR server and token module may transmit a login page to the user. The user submits its login credentials e.g. username and password and token module checks to see if the login credentials correspond to a registered user in security database . If the login information is determined to correspond to a patient enrolled in the EHR system token module may generate a persistent security token for the patient. The persistent security token may include a globally unique ID GUID identifying the patient. Token module may transmit the persistent security token back to the mobile device and data collection application which stores the token with tokens . In addition token module may create an identity profile in security database that verification module can use to authenticate the security token.

In addition to generating a security token for the patient token module may also generate a security token for the developer. As mentioned above token module may generate the developer s security token after the developer or developer s application has gone through a certification process with the EHR provider.

After the login process authorization module may present the patient with additional screens that prompt the patient to authorize data collection application to use one or more APIs. Some APIs may enable data collection application to retrieve background biographical information about the patient. Other APIs may enable data collection application to submit observational data to files only accessible by the patient. Still other APIs may enable data collection application to submit observational data to files accessible by a physician. As described in more detail below authorization module may prompt and ask the patient whether each of these different types of APIs are authorized.

Once the patient has authorized the API calls and data collection application has received the patient s persistent security token data collection application can start making API calls. In one embodiment in addition to receiving the patient security tokens data collection application receives a list specifying which APIs the patient has authorized.

To service API requests EHR server uses its verification module . Every API call may include the persistent security tokens for the patient and developer and may specify which API function it seeks to invoke. In response to receipt of the API call verification module verifies authenticity of the persistent security token for the patient and the persistent security token for the developer of the patient collection device against corresponding data in security database . Verification module also may evaluate a record in security database to determine whether the patient has authorized data collection application to make the API call.

As mentioned above some API calls involve submitting observational data to medical records database . To service those APIs calls a patient data collection module stores the observational data to the patient s file in medical records database .

Once recorded in the medical records database the patient may be able to review the observational database through an interface provided by EHR server . For example the data may appear in a timeline of events relating to the patient s health. The timeline may for example present the patient s disparate medical events in reverse chronological order. In one embodiment the observational data may only appear in a view accessible to the patient that lists the patient s disparate medical events in reverse chronological order. Or if the patient has authorized physician access the observational data may also appear in views accessible by authorized physicians or members of their practice.

In addition to being useful for tracking purposes the submitted observational data may also be used to actively provide patient care. In particular alert module may have rules associated with the observational data. The rules may be set by the patient or an authorized physician s practice. The rules may specify that when the data is outside of a normal range perhaps specified by the physician certain actions occur. The action may involve alerting the physician alerting the patient or alerting emergency services of the abnormality. In one embodiment prior to alert module alerting a physician verification module may determine whether the patient has authorized the physician to be alerted. The alert may involve an e mail or text including a link to a secure message portal provided by EHR server . In addition the alert may involve sending a fax or an automated phone message. The alert may include a recommended action. For example if alert module detects a blood sugar level outside of a diabetic patient s normal range alert module may advise the patient to take an insulin shot. In this way embodiments can actively provide patient care instead of passively waiting for a patient to report illness or for a physician to personally review results.

The rules configured in alert module may specify how the type of alert may vary depending on the seriousness of the condition or how far the observational data is out of its normal range. For example if alert module detects a blood sugar level a small amount outside of a diabetic patient s normal range alert module may remind the patient to take an insulin shot. But if alert module detects that the blood sugar level is a large amount outside of a diabetic patient s normal range alert module may contact the physician or emergency services.

Finally the rules configured in alert module may look at multiple data points over time. For example if alert module detects that the patient s blood sugar level strays outside of his normal range at a specified frequency alert module may inform the patient or physician that additional training or education may be necessary. In this way quality of care may be improved in a seamless proactive manner.

At step EHR server sends a reminder to the patient to purchase the data collection application. To protect the patient s privacy the reminder may be an email that indicates that the patient has a new message on their EHR portal. The email may include a link that when selected redirects the patient to the new message in the EHR portal. Prior to viewing the message EHR server may verify the authenticity of a security token or require the patient to enter login credentials. The message may remind the patient of the need to purchase the application or device and may provide information on how to make the purchase including links or buttons to recommended vendors.

When a patient clicks on the link or button the patient may be redirected to another server such as for example third party developer server or an application marketplace server such as the AppStore available from Apple Inc. At step the patient downloads the application such as data collection application in FIG. to the patient s mobile device or purchases the device. The external application is developed by a third party different from the EHR provider. The EHR provider may have worked with the third party developer to embed for example a button or link in their application to log in with an EHR server account or to create an EHR server account. Medical data collection application provides that button or link to the user at step .

At step medical data collection application receives a user selection of the button and redirects the patient to a login page for EHR server . To encourage the patient to trust the login page the login page may include the logo of the EHR provider. The logo may instill trust because the patient has interacted with their personal health record in the past. The patient can login with their unique EHR server credentials. These transactions like all other network communications disclosed herein may be done using Hyptertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS and secure socket layer SSL certificates. The pages may be Hypertext Markup Language HTML pages and data may be transmitted in a structure format such as extendable markup language XML . The user enters their PHR login credentials and EHR server receives the credentials at step .

After receiving and verifying the patient s credentials EHR server generates a token for the patient at step . Then at step EHR server prompts the patient with a message that asks whether the patient authorizes this application or application developer to access the patient s biographical information. After receiving this information the process proceeds to method in to complete the setup procedure.

Method begins at step when EHR server prompts the patient for authorization to send the observational data to EHR server . At step EHR server prompts the patient for authorization to send the observational data to the physician s medical records. Alternatively steps and may be done as a single prompt.

At step EHR server transmits the data collected from the user to third party developer server . In particular EHR server transmits the persistent security token and an identification of which APIs the patient authorized to third party developer server . At step third party developer server stores the data. With that information third party developer server can make API calls to customize the application according to the patient as illustrated in .

If the patient has not authorized use of the patient biographical information API third party developer server makes an API call using the patient and developer tokens. EHR server receives the API call and verifies the authenticity of the patient and developer tokens at step . Then EHR server verifies that the patient authorized the call at step . If EHR server determines the tokens to be authentic and the call to be authorized at decision block the call is processed at step .

To process the call at step EHR server may retrieve patient biographical information such as the patient s full name date of birth gender geographic location and other biographical information. EHR server may send the patient data back to third party developer server . At step third party developer server receives the patient data. At step third party developer server customizes the application to the patient according to the biographical information. The customization may involve for example pre populating fields using the patient biographical information. The customization may also involve for example determining whether certain fields are applicable based on the biographical information and only displaying fields that third party developer server determines to be applicable. While these functions are described as being done by third party developer a skilled artisan would also recognize that they can also be done by data collection application running on the patient s mobile device.

In addition to making API calls for the patient biographical information data collection application or third party developer server may also collect observational data about the patient and submit the observational data to the patient s medical records as illustrated in .

Data collection application may submit the information directly to EHR server or as illustrated in method transmit third party developer server which in turn transmits the data to EHR server .

At decision block third party developer server determines based on information received from EHR server whether the patient has authorized the application to submit data to the medical records database. If the patient has authorized the application to submit data third party developer server makes an API call to submit the observational data with the patient developer tokens at step . The API calls are transmitted to EHR server .

At step EHR server verifies the patient and developer tokens and that the API call is authorized. EHR server determines whether the patient has authorized the application to post information to the patient account at decision block . If authorized EHR server posts data to the patient account at step . At decision block EHR server determines whether the patient has authorized the application to post information to the physician s records. If authorized EHR server posts data to the physician s records at step .

At step analytics are run against the collected observational data. The observational data may be evaluated against an evidence based standard deviation based on medical standards or a range set in the doctor s preferences. In addition analytics may be run to determine whether there is a sudden change in the observational data. For example EHR server may generate alert if the observed glucose level is 5 or 10 higher than it was at a previous time such as 15 minutes prior. If it s 5 higher EHR server may send a message to the patient through his or her EHR portal. And if it s 10 higher EHR server may send the patient a text message call the patient s phone or even dispatch care professionals to check up on the patient.

In this way by integrating patient data collection applications into electronic medical records embodiments can track a patient s holistic health information and provide proactive medical care.

Not only can embodiments integrate patient data collection devices with an EHR server as illustrated in embodiments can also integrate physician productivity devices with the EHR server as illustrated in . is a diagram illustrating a system that integrates a physician productivity device and an EHR server. While this disclosure sometimes refers to physicians for illustrative purposes a skilled artisan would recognize that it could be applied to other medical professionals including nurses and front office staff.

Like system illustrated in system includes mobile device third party developer server and EHR server connected via network . And like system illustrated in EHR server includes a token module an authorization module and a verification module and is coupled to security database and medical records database .

In addition EHR server includes a practice productivity interface module and mobile device includes a practice productivity application . Like data collection application in practice productivity application includes an EHR interface module and tokens . In addition practice productivity application includes a productivity module .

Similar to data collection application in practice productivity application may for example be purchased or retrieved from an online application marketplace and installed on mobile device . Practice productivity application provides functionality that enables a physician or the physician s practice to increase productivity. For example practice productivity application may be an application that enables a physician to dictate his notes. In other examples practice productivity application may communicate directly with other devices such as a scale or blood pressure sensor to collect data about a patient.

As discussed above EHR interface module communicates with EHR server either directly or through third party developer server . When operating in practice productivity application EHR interface module may make three different types of API calls 1 API calls to retrieve patient data from a medical records database on the EHR system 2 API calls to retrieve practice information from a medical records database on the EHR system and 3 API calls to submit productivity data. In all three cases the API calls may include security tokens from tokens that authenticate the physician and developer of the practice productivity application .

Productivity module provides functionality productivity for the physician of the physician s practice. As set forth below above this functionality may include for example transcription of doctors notes or interaction with devices that collect data about a patient.

Like in FIG. s system in system token module enables a physician and members of the physician s practice to log in. It receives physician login information that a physician entered on a login portal. In response to receipt of the physician login information token module determines whether the physician login information corresponds to a physician enrolled in the EHR system. And if the physician login information is determined to correspond to a physician enrolled in the EHR system token module generates the persistent security token for the physician and transmits the persistent security token to the practice productivity application.

Not only can token module create tokens it can also revoke them. The token may need to be revoked for example for non payment of fees for failing to comply with the terms of use or in the event of a security breach.

Again like in FIG. s system in system authorization module prompts a user in this case a physician to authorize the application to execute certain API calls. For example authorization module may prompt the physician to authorize the practice productivity application to i retrieve practice information ii retrieve patient data and iii submit data to the physician s medical records on the EHR system.

Again like in FIG. s system in system verification module determines whether an API call is authenticated and authorized. In response to receipt of the API call verification module verifies the authenticity of the persistent security token for the physician and the persistent security token for the practice productivity application and determines whether the physician has authorized the practice productivity application to make the API call.

Practice productivity interface module executes the functionality specified by the API call. As mentioned above this may involve retrieving information such as practice information and patient data from medical records database or submitting productivity information such as transcribed notes to medical records database .

In one embodiment medical records database includes a schedule of appointments for the physician and physician productivity interface module can use the schedule to refine its API functionality. For example in response to an API call to retrieve patient data practice productivity interface module may identify which patient is currently scheduled on the physician s schedule of appointments and may send data about the identified patient. In another example in response to an API call to submit productivity data practice productivity interface module may identify which patient is currently scheduled on the physician s schedule of appointments and may store the submitted productivity data to the physician s file about the identified patient. The productivity data may be data that help the practice and medical professional be more productive.

Method begins at step by providing a marketplace for practice productivity applications. This may be done for example by EHR server . For example EHR server may provide co marketing that directs doctors to productivity applications that may be useful. EHR server may send e mails to physicians advertising apps that may be useful to them. The advertising may be selected based on the practice s specialty size or other practice information.

At step the physician downloads the application from third party developer server to the physician s mobile device. Third party developer server or EHR server may for example email the doctor with explicit instructions on what they should do when they download productivity application and install it on the phone.

Because EHR server referred the doctor to third party developer server to purchase productivity application productivity application may know that the physician uses EHR server . Because productivity application knows that the physician uses EHR server the first thing productivity application may present when initiated is EHR server s login page at step . Alternatively productivity application may ask the physician to identify the EHR provider used.

At step EHR server receives the physician s EHR credentials for example the physician s email address and password. In addition to granting access to the EHR server s API the EHR credentials may be used to log the user in to productivity application . In this way productivity application can reuse the EHR credentials that the physician may already use frequently perhaps daily to access its patient medical records.

If EHR server determines that EHR credentials are correct it prompts the doctors for authorization of different APIs at steps and . At step EHR server prompts the physician to determine whether she authorizes productivity application to post information to the physician s medical records.

At step EHR server prompts the physician to determine whether she authorizes productivity application to access the physician s patient records. EHR server may have several different ways to query the patient records including retrieving a list of all the patients retrieving detailed records for a specific patient or retrieving records for the patient that the doctor is currently scheduled to see. The doctor may authorize all of these different API calls or may authorize the API calls at a more granular level.

At step EHR server prompts the physician to determine whether she authorizes productivity application to access to the physician s practice information. The practice information may include the other users in the practice the staff the nurses and the front office people. Providing this information to productivity application may for example improve its experience because it would enable the doctor to quickly select a nurse that helped check in a patient. The practice information may also include a specialty the state that the practice is operating in where the physician is licensed to practice and insurance that the physician accepts.

After completing these prompts the process goes to method in to complete setup of productivity application .

Method begins with the step when EHR server generates the authentication token. At step EHR server transmits the authentication token generated in step and identification of the APIs that the doctors authorized. At step EHR server stores the authentication token and identification of the APIs that the doctors authorized.

With that information productivity application can make API calls as illustrated in . Though not shown in productivity application can also check to see if a call is authorized prior to making it.

The API call can include an identifier for a specific patient. In that case EHR server may associate the stored productivity information with a patient record. Alternatively the API call can include a patient name but not an identifier specific for that patient. In that case but EHR server may store the productivity information in a temporary file location. Then the physician or member of the physician s practice may periodically evaluate the data in the temporary file location to associate the data with one or more specific medical records.

Each of the servers and modules in and may be implemented on the same or different computing devices in hardware software or any combination thereof. Such computing devices can include but are not limited to a personal computer a mobile device such as a mobile phone workstation embedded system game console television set top box or any other computing device. Further a computing device can include but is not limited to a device having a processor and memory including nontransitory memory for executing and storing instructions. The memory may tangibly embody the data and program instructions. Software may include one or more applications and an operating system. Hardware can include but is not limited to a processor memory and graphical user interface display. The computing device may also have multiple processors and multiple shared or separate memory components. For example the computing device may be a part of or the entirety of a clustered computing environment or server farm.

The persistent security tokens disclosed herein may for example be Open Authentication or OpenID tokens.

An example computing device is illustrated in . is a diagram illustrating a computing device that accesses a network over a network connection that provides computing device with telecommunications capabilities. Computing device uses an operating system as software that manages hardware resources and coordinates the interface between hardware and software.

In an embodiment computing device contains a combination of hardware software and firmware constituent parts that allow it to run an applications layer . Computing device in embodiments may be organized around a system bus but any type of infrastructure that allows the hardware infrastructure elements of computing device to communicate with and interact with each other may also be used.

Processing tasks in the embodiment of are carried out by one or more processors . However it should be noted that various types of processing technology may be used here including multi core processors multiple processors or distributed processors. Additional specialized processing resources such as graphics multimedia or mathematical processing capabilities may also be used to aid in certain processing tasks. These processing resources may be hardware software or an appropriate combination thereof. For example one or more of processors may be a graphics processing unit GPU . In an embodiment a GPU is a processor that is a specialized electronic circuit designed to rapidly process mathematically intensive applications on electronic devices. The GPU may have a highly parallel structure that is efficient for parallel processing of large blocks of data such as mathematically intensive data common to computer graphics applications images and videos.

In order to manipulate data in accordance with embodiments describe herein processors access a memory via system bus . Memory is nontransitory memory such as random access memory RAM . Memory may include one or more levels of cache. Memory has stored therein control logic i.e. computer software and or data. For data that needs to be stored more permanently processors access persistent storage via system bus . Persistent storage may include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage device or drive. A removable storage drive may be an optical storage device a compact disc drive flash memory a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive tape backup device and or any other storage device drive.

Processors memory and persistent storage cooperate with operating system to provide basic functionality for computing device . Operating system provides support functionality for applications layer .

Network connection enables computer device to communicate and interact with any combination of remote devices remote networks remote entities etc. For example network connection may allow computer device to communicate with remote devices over network which may be a wired and or wireless network and which may include any combination of LANs WANs the Internet etc. Control logic and or data may be transmitted to and from computer device via network connection .

Applications layer may house various modules and components. For example the applications and modules in and may be included in applications layer .

It should be noted that computer readable medium embodiments may include any physical medium which is capable of encoding instructions that may subsequently be used by a processor to implement methods described herein. Example physical media may include floppy discs optical discs e.g. CDs mini CDs DVDs HD DVD Blu ray hard drives punch cards tape drives flash memory or memory chips. However any other type of tangible persistent storage that can serve in the role of providing instructions to a processor may be used to store the instructions in these embodiments.

An example of a conventional medical record in an EHR is illustrated in . A comprehensive EHR system includes a variety of components. Components of EHR systems vary from vendor to vendor and from setting to setting. For example an EHR system in which embodiments of the present invention can be used may also include 1 an electronic prescription eRx component 2 a clinical and radiology laboratory component 3 a transfer of care component 4 a scheduling component 5 a billing service component and 6 patient portal component.

The electronic prescription component provides medical professionals capabilities to electronically generate and transmit prescriptions for patients medications. Some EHR systems enable prescribers to view their patients prescription benefit information at the point of care and select medications that are on formulary and covered by the patient s drug benefit. This informs physicians of potential lower cost alternatives such as generic drugs and reduces administrative burden of pharmacy staff and physicians related to benefit coverage.

The clinical and radiology laboratory component allows medical professionals to integrate with clinical laboratories to electronically receive and incorporate clinical laboratory tests and results into a patient s chart and create computerized provider order entry CPOE clinical laboratory orders. This component can also support functionality that enables medical professionals to electronically receive and incorporate radiology laboratory test results e.g. x ray ultrasound MRI PET CT scan mammography into a patient s chart.

Medical professionals can use the transfer of care component to transmit referrals electronically to other EHR users or to non users by facsimile. Additionally some EHR systems support electronically creating and transmitting consolidated continuity of care documents.

The scheduling component offers functionality that allows healthcare providers to manage their appointments with an electronic schedule that can be integrated into a practice s workflow.

The billing service component offers medical professionals the ability to electronically generate and transmit superbills. Superbills are the data source for the creation of a healthcare claim. The billing service component can transmit superbills to medical billing software accounts controlled by the professionals offices or their billing service providers. This component also allows a healthcare professional to save a superbill and transmit it to the health care professional s billing account with the billing software vendor.

The patient portal component allows medical professionals to grant their patients an online means to view download and transmit their health information often called the personal health record PHR . This component also provides patients with the ability to review their physicians and send and receive secure messages directly to and from their physicians.

Identifiers such as a b i ii etc. are sometimes used for different elements or steps. These identifiers are used for clarity and do not necessarily designate an order for the elements or steps.

The present invention has been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the implementation of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternate boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can by applying knowledge within the skill of the art readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without undue experimentation without departing from the general concept of the present invention. Therefore such adaptations and modifications are intended to be within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments based on the teaching and guidance presented herein. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation such that the terminology or phraseology of the present specification is to be interpreted by the skilled artisan in light of the teachings and guidance.

The breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

