---

title: Speech analytics system and system and method for determining structured speech
abstract: A method for converting speech to text in a speech analytics system is provided. The method includes receiving audio data containing speech made up of sounds from an audio source, processing the sounds with a phonetic module resulting in symbols corresponding to the sounds, and processing the symbols with a language module and occurrence table resulting in text. The method also includes determining a probability of correct translation for each word in the text, comparing the probability of correct translation for each word in the text to the occurrence table, and adjusting the occurrence table based on the probability of correct translation for each word in the text.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09401145&OS=09401145&RS=09401145
owner: VERINT SYSTEMS LTD.
number: 09401145
owner_city: Herzilya Pituach
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20140505
---
This application is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 755 549 filed Apr. 7 2010 entitled SPEECH ANALYTICS SYSTEM AND SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING STRUCTURED SPEECH which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 167 495 and entitled STRUCTURED SPEECH filed on Apr. 7 2009 and Application Ser. No. 61 178 795 and entitled SPEECH ANALYTICS SYSTEM filed on May 15 2009 the contents of the above are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Conversations within contact centers are typically more structured than everyday speech. The contact center conversations may contain a mixture of free conversation and structured speech. Structured speech is sequences that have a higher repetition rate than free speech. Structured speech may include scripts that are read word for word by agents computer generated voice mail messages interactive voice response IVR generated speech and figures of speech.

Accuracy is also a concern when translating speech to text to generate transcripts of conversations in the contact center. When performing speech to text there are often errors in the conversion. This may be cause by noise on the line speakers do not speak clearly or transcription system itself has errors. In long texts the probability of errors increases. Thus it is difficult to determine agent compliance to scripts and to verify quality assurance.

In accordance with some implementations described herein there is provided a method for determining structured speech. The method may include receiving a transcript of an audio recording created by a text to speech communication processing system. Thereafter analyzing text in the transcript to determine repetitions within the text where the repetitions being indicative of structured speech. From the repetitions a duration distribution of the repetitions may be determined to ascertain a first type of structured speech. The first type of structured speech many be interactive voice response IVR generated speech. A length of the repetitions may be determined to ascertain a second type of structured speech. The second type of structured speech may be scripts spoken by e.g. agents in the contact center.

In accordance with some implementations there is provided a method for converting speech to text in a speech analytics system. The method may include receiving audio data containing speech made up of sounds from an audio source processing the sounds with a phonetic module resulting in symbols corresponding to the sounds and processing the symbols with a language module and occurrence table resulting in text. The method also may include determining a probability of correct translation for each word in the text comparing the probability of correct translation for each word in the text to the occurrence table and adjusting the occurrence table based on the probability of correct translation for each word in the text.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The following description and associated drawings teach the best mode of the invention. For the purpose of teaching inventive principles some conventional aspects of the best mode may be simplified or omitted. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Thus those skilled in the art will appreciate variations from the best mode that fall within the scope of the invention. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described below can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific examples described below but only by claims and their equivalents.

Structured speech has a different statistical behavior than free conversation. By understanding the statistical distinction structured speech may be automatically identified based in Large Vocabulary Continuous Speech Recognition LVCSR outputs from contact centers given a set of transcribed calls. For example a different retrieval criterion may be used for structured speech than free conversation. By exploiting the fact that structured speech includes long sentences a high level of precision and recall may be obtained in view of the following.

Links and may use any of a variety of communication media such as air metal optical fiber or any other signal propagation path including combinations thereof. In addition links and may use any of a variety of communication protocols such as internet telephony optical networking wireless communication wireless fidelity or any other communication protocols and formats including combinations thereof. Further links and could be direct links or they might include various intermediate components systems and networks.

Communication network may be any type of network such as a local area network LAN wide area network WAN the internet a wireless communication network or the like. Any network capable of transferring data from one device to another device may operate as communication network .

The speech analytics system may include recorder that stores the speech from audio source or audio source for later retrieval by communication processing system or other downstream devices or systems. The audio sources and may be any source such as a telephone VoIP endpoint mobile device general purpose computing device etc. The recorded speech is made up of a plurality of sounds that are then translated to text.

Communication processing system may be any device capable of receiving data through communication network from other devices such as audio sources and processing the data and transmitting data through network to other devices. For example communication processing system may include a processing system for processing data a communication interface for receiving and transmitting data a storage system for storing data and a user interface. One example embodiment of communication processing system is represented by the communication processing system illustrated in and described in detail below.

Communications processing system receives speech made up of sounds from audio source audio source or recorder and proceeds to convert the speech to text. First communication processing system uses a phonetic module to convert the sounds into symbols corresponding to the sounds. Next communication processing system uses a language module and occurrence table to convert the symbols into text. In addition communication processing system determines a probable accuracy for each word translated. This probability may be based upon the words proceeding or following the selected word. Finally communication processing system compares the probable accuracies for each word translated with an occurrence table and adjusts the occurrence table as indicated by the probable accuracies for each word.

In an example the occurrence table may be based upon the occurrence of words in a test sample. There may be a variety of test samples and occurrence tables corresponding to different dialects languages or regional slang. There may also be a variety of test samples and occurrence tables corresponding to different domains such as banking law commerce phone centers technical support lines or the like. When speech of a known dialect or domain is received it is compared to a corresponding occurrence table and the appropriate occurrence table is updated based upon the probable accuracy of the translation of the speech. Thus the occurrence table for different dialects and domains are continually being updated as more speech is translated.

While illustrates communication processing system as a single device other embodiments may perform the functions of communication processing system in a plurality of devices distributed throughout communication network . For example separate devices may be provided for each different method of speech to text translation and their resulting transcriptions may then be transmitted to communication processing system for compilation into database and for generation of a database index. Still other examples may provide for translation of the audio data to text within communication processing system while the function of creating the database index may actually be performed within database . is simply representative of one possible structure for performing the methods described here for indexing a database.

In an example embodiment communication processing system receives audio data from audio sources and through communication network . This audio data may utilize any of a wide variety of formats. The audio data may be recorded as .mp3 or .wav files or the like. Further the audio data may include one or more conversations within a single data file or group of data files. In some embodiments the audio data may be translated from speech to text by other elements not shown within communication network and the translated text may then be provided to communication processing system .

Communication processing system processes audio data received from audio sources and producing an index of symbols found within the audio data. These symbols may include phonemes words phrases or the like. The index of symbols may be stored in database in some embodiments. Communication processing system then processes the index of symbols searching for symbols that have a deviation in frequency of occurrence within a time period. This time period may be of any length. For example communication processing system may receive daily updates of audio data and search for symbols having a deviation in frequency of occurrence in comparison to the audio data received for the previous week. Other embodiments may use other periods of time in a similar method.

Speech analytics system determines a probability of correct translation for each word in the text operation . This probability may be based in part or in whole on the words proceeding or following the selected word. Speech analytics system compares the probability of correct translation for each word in the text to an appropriate occurrence table operation . This occurrence table may be selected based upon a number of factors such as dialect or language of the speech and the domain in which the speech was obtained.

Speech analytics system then modifies the occurrence table based on the probability of correct translation for each word in the text operation . This modification may simply change the occurrence probability by a fixed percentage or by a variable percentage based on the probability of correct translation of the given word or any other of a wide variety of methods for modification.

Speech analytics system determines a probability of correct translation for each word in the text operation . This probability may be based in part or in whole on the words proceeding or following the selected word. Speech analytics system compares the probability of correct translation for each word in the text to an appropriate occurrence table operation . This occurrence table may be selected based upon a number of factors such as dialect or language of the speech and the domain in which the speech was obtained.

Speech analytics system then modifies the occurrence table based on the probability of correct translation for each word in the text operation . This modification may simply change the occurrence probability by a fixed percentage or by a variable percentage based on the probability of correct translation of the given word or any other of a wide variety of methods for modification.

In accordance with aspects of the disclosure structured speech may be identified. Structure speech may include IVR scripts and figures of speech. With regard to IVR this type of structured speech is repetitive. Thus the communication processing system can recognizing errors in a transcription by taking advantage of the repetitive nature of IVR speech. An IVR message may be Welcome to ABC Products customer service center. All of our representatives are busy assisting other customers. Similarly a voicemail system prompt may be You have reached the voice mail box of Jane Doe please leave your message after the tone. 

Scripts are another type of structured speech and are typically statements spoken by agents are as required by law certain situations e.g. disclaimers and in response to customer inquiries etc. The scripts are spoken by many different agents with typically only minor modification and timing between the agents. An agent script may be for example For security purposes can you please verify the last four digits of your social security number. Scripts may have medium length sentences but are repeated among conversations in the contact center.

Figures of speech are small to medium sized sentences that people tend to say even thought they are not written text read aloud. The figures of speech are typically common phrases such as Oh my They occur with some repetition but are typically shorter than scripts. Similar to a script figures of speech tend to have some repetition among conversations in the contact center but are typically shorter in length and of lower frequency.

With regard to free speech the order and length of words in is variable. Free speech typically does not repeat among conversations. An example of free speech is Well you see first click on start. 

The communication processing system can make determinations of the type of speech by looking words within the transcript. For example for IVR speech if a predetermined number or percentage of words in an IVR recording are recognized e.g. 9 out of 16 the communication processing system can make a determination that a particular segment of the transcript is IVR speech. The communication processing system may make a determination not to index each and every word of the recognized IVR speech.

The communication processing system can make analyze the text of the transcribed speech to make determinations of the type of speech operation by looking words within the transcript. For example the communication processing system may identify structured speech based upon repetitions. The communication processing system may identify IVR speech based on durations and distributions. For example illustrates patterns of IVR speech. When a certain sentence phrase statement etc. repeats over and over it can be identified. As illustrated phrases associated with IVR speech show little deviation. However scripts spoken by agents may exhibit a higher degree of deviation as shown in . Thus the two types of structured speech can be identified and separated.

The communication processing system may make a determination operation that a particular segment of the transcript is IVR speech based on the duration distribution of the particular segment. As such the IVR speech can be separated operation . For example the segment All of our representatives are busy assisting other customers can be identified as IVR speech.

Using this knowledge the communication processing system may determine if a predetermined number of words in an IVR recording are recognized. In accordance with the determination the communication processing system may make a determination not to index each and every word of the recognized IVR speech.

After separating IVR phrases scripts spoken by agents can be identified by e.g. examining a length of the phrase. As noted above scripts are read from text or are statements that agents are trained to say A Federal Law and your decision will not affect your service . Also as noted above figures of speech are customary statement Hello how can I help you . Because figures of speech tend to be a few words whereas the scripts tend to be longer sentences a phrase can be categorized as a script operation or a figure of speech operation . Thus figures of speech can be separated out from scripts based on length.

Those phrases that do not fall into the above structures are likely to be free speech operation . Separating the structures may be useful because for example in scripts the word rebate may have a different meaning than when it occurs in a figure of speech or free speech. Thus as will be described below when searching on the word rebate a context script figure of speech or free speech may be included in the index and searched.

Identifying scripts within a contact corpus is useful for analysis purposes operation . In some implementations agent compliance may be determined. For example it may be determined which agents do or do not strictly adhere to scripts that include e.g. disclaimers. Contacts may be reviewed that should include a script but do not. Agents may be ranked based on their compliance to scripts. In addition identifying scripts may be used to determine which agents are more or less polite than others. Politeness may be analyzed to determine if agents who are more polite helping with customer retention sales etc. Yet further identifying scripts may determine if agents are attempting to up sell and what the characteristics of the calls are in which up selling is performed.

For contacts within the corpus scores for a script can be determined by setting a minimum distance between the script and words in the contact. A script may be identified by looking for a word or group of words a Boolean expression or weighting of words. Pattern matching may be performed if a number of errors are small. However there is not a need to search each and every word in script for it to be correct. In some implementations an order of the words may be used.

For example as show in a threshold number of mistakes insertions replacements deletions may be set e.g. 18 to identify a percentage of sentences as being the script. Using this approach a higher recall and precision may be obtained because the script itself has a more accurate signature that looking for the each word by itself. For example the sequence and or timing of the words can be used.

In some implementations scripts may be used as categories. For example the communication processing system may identify the scripts and output a list. The communication processing system may evaluate each contact for the scripts it contains e.g. binary output . A user may use a Script Definition Tool SDT to assign a script with a name color impact etc. The user may assign the script with a type such as a greeting authentication hold transfer or closure. Additional types assigned can be legal company policy up sale politeness etc. Manual edit of scripts may be performed by the user who may edit the scripts list to focus on interesting scripts and perform fine tuning. Each script can be given a name color impact similarly to categories.

In some implementations the communication processing system may utilize scripts similarly to categories. For example scripts may be used as a filter in a query. Since the script is binary a NOT operator can be used for checking compliance. Scripts may be displayed and impact and relevance determined for a specific query. In a player application scripts may be marked within a contact see e.g. .

In some implementations scripts may be identified as part of a quality management and scorecards. A supervisor may obtain a list of sentences that each of his her agents tends to use. The supervisor may ascertain the greetings closure each agent uses. The supervisor may determine an agents first call resolution capabilities.

Scripts may be exported to database . From database the scripts can be integrated with evaluation forms QM and Scorecards. Scripts compliance can be used in QM as metrics for evaluations and for training purposes. Script adherence reports may be generated to determine which agents exceptionally use certain scripts. The reports may also surface scripts that have exceptionally low or high compliance. For each agent a graph of his her compliance to various scripts may be generated as well as an overall scripts compliance graph for all scripts.

In some implementations analytics may be performed to determine how the usage of an up sale script contribute to sales e.g. using meta data whether agent politeness leads to better customer satisfaction e.g. using categories and whether a polite agent helps improve customer retention whether complying to company policy has a positive effect on sales. Analytics may determine other aspects such as what characterizes a specific agent group and what their common scripts are. In addition it may be determined what characterizes good agents and what are their common scripts e.g. using QM data .

In the above the user need not type in whole script when monitoring agents for compliance QM etc. Special identifiers can be added to the index and used to searching purposes.

Communication interface includes components that communicate over communication links such as network cards ports RF transceivers processing circuitry and software or some other communication devices. Communication interface may be configured to communicate over metallic wireless or optical links Communication interface may be configured to use TDM IP Ethernet optical networking wireless protocols communication signaling or some other communication format including combinations thereof. In this example communication interface is configured to receive audio data from recorder or directly from audio source .

User interface includes components that interact with a user. User interface may include a keyboard display screen mouse touch pad or some other user input output apparatus. User interface may be omitted in some examples.

Processing circuitry includes microprocessor and other circuitry that retrieves and executes operating software from memory device . Memory device includes a disk drive flash drive data storage circuitry or some other memory apparatus. Operating software includes computer programs firmware or some other form of machine readable processing instructions. Operating software may include an operating system utilities drivers network interfaces applications or some other type of software. When executed by circuitry operating software directs processing system to operate communication processing system as described herein.

In this example operating software includes a phonetic module that directs processing circuitry to translate speech to sounds a language module that directs processing circuitry to translate sounds to text and an occurrence table that is used with the language module to improve the accuracy of the sounds to text translation.

The above description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described above can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described above but only by the following claims and their equivalents.

