---

title: Method for sending recorded conference call content
abstract: A method and communication device for scheduling a conference call. The method includes receiving, in a first communication device, an invitation message containing at least some conference call scheduling information with respect to a scheduled conference call session; displaying an interface in relation to the invitation message, the interface including an option to send a request for recorded conference call content of the scheduled conference call session; receiving an input selecting the option; and sending a communication to a second communication device including a response to the invitation message and including said request for recorded conference call content. A conference call server is also described for sending recorded conference call content to the communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09380156&OS=09380156&RS=09380156
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09380156
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20140203
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 156 469 filed Jun. 9 2011 entitled Method for Sending Recorded Conference Call Content which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Example embodiments relate to conference call systems and methods for example for sending recorded conference call content.

During a conference call voice or media connections are typically made between two or more communication devices such as telephones or mobile phones.

When an invited participant of a conference call cannot participate in the call for example due to a meeting conflict the participant normally misses the discussion and only learns the outcome via a meeting report or word of mouth.

Some conventional conference call systems may flag participation as mandatory but may not be truly mandatory in terms of being able to ensure attendance or review from the invited participants.

If the conference call was a learning session where the user is expected to review material presented it may be difficult to monitor whether the user actually viewed the content.

Other difficulties with existing teleconferencing systems will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the detailed description below.

Some example embodiments generally relate to sending recorded conference call content such as video audio and or presentation content.

Some example embodiments generally relate to requesting recorded conference call content during scheduling of a conference call session.

In some example embodiments an invitee device may be permitted to request a record of a conference call content to be sent to the device when the call concludes.

Some example embodiments may be used for teaching or training. For example if a conference call was a learning session wherein the user is expected to review material presented example embodiments can monitor the user s progress through the recording and track when the user has completed or to what stage the user completes the viewing of the recording.

In one example embodiment there is provided a method for scheduling a conference call the method including receiving in a first communication device an invitation message containing at least some conference call scheduling information with respect to a scheduled conference call session displaying an interface in relation to the invitation message the interface including an option to send a request for recorded conference call content of the scheduled conference call session receiving an input selecting the option and sending a communication to a second communication device including a response to the invitation message and including said request for recorded conference call content.

In another example embodiment there is provided a non transitory computer readable medium having recorded thereon statements and instructions for execution by one or more devices for scheduling a conference call said statements and instructions comprising code means for performing the method.

In yet another example embodiment there is provided a communication device including a controller a communications subsystem for receiving an invitation message containing at least some conference call scheduling information with respect to a scheduled conference call session a display for displaying an interface in relation to the invitation message the interface including an option to send a request for recorded conference call content of the scheduled conference call session wherein the controller detects an input selecting the option and wherein the controller controls the communications subsystem to send a communication to a second communication device including a response to the invitation message and including said request for recorded conference call content.

In yet another example embodiment there is provided a method for sending recorded conference call content from a conference call server the method including sending to a communication device an invitation message containing at least some conference call scheduling information with respect to a scheduled conference call session receiving a response to the invitation message recording conference call content in a memory during the scheduled conference call session and detecting an absence event with respect to the communication device and in response automatically sending the recorded conference call content to the communication device after the recording.

In yet another example embodiment there is provided a conference call server including a memory for storing conference call scheduling information with respect to a scheduled conference call session a communications subsystem for communicating with communication devices and a controller. The controller is configured for sending to a communication device an invitation message containing at least some of the conference call scheduling information with respect to the scheduled conference call session receiving a response to the invitation message recording conference call content in the memory during the scheduled conference call session and detecting an absence event with respect to the communication device and in response automatically sending the recorded conference call content to the communication device after the recording.

Example embodiments relate to the control and management of conference call communications. Although reference may be made to calls and talk in the description of example embodiments below it will be appreciated that some of the described systems and methods may be applicable to session based communications in general and not limited to voice calls. Reference to calls may for example include shared data e.g. presentation content as well as media sessions which may for example include video and or audio. The various communications may include both synchronous and asynchronous communications to implement such calls .

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example system generally designated for the control and management of communications. The system includes an enterprise or business system which in many embodiments includes a local area network LAN . In the description below the enterprise or business system may be referred to as an enterprise network . It will be appreciated that the enterprise network may include more than one network and may be located in multiple geographic areas in some embodiments.

The enterprise network may be connected often through a firewall to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The enterprise network may also be connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN via direct inward dialing DID trunks or primary rate interface PRI trunks.

The enterprise network may also communicate with a public land mobile network PLMN which may also be referred to as a wireless wide area network WWAN or in some cases a cellular network. The connection with the PLMN may be made via a relay as understood in the art.

The enterprise network may also provide a wireless local area network WLAN featuring wireless access points. Other WLANs may exist outside the enterprise network . For example WLAN may be connected to WAN .

The system may include a number of enterprise associated mobile devices only one shown . The mobile devices may include devices equipped with communications modules for cellular communication through the PLMN mobile devices equipped for Wi Fi communications over one of the WLANs or dual mode devices capable of both cellular and data communications. WLANs may be configured in accordance with one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications.

It will be understood that the mobile devices include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with the PLMN and or one of the WLANs . In various embodiments the PLMN and mobile devices may be configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols including GSM GPRS CDMA EDGE UMTS EvDO HSPA 3GPP or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that the mobile device may roam within the PLMN and across PLMNs in known manner as the user moves. In some instances the dual mode mobile devices and or the enterprise network are configured to facilitate roaming between the PLMN and a WLAN and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions such as voice calls from a connection with the cellular interface of the dual mode device to the WLAN interface of the dual mode device and vice versa.

The mobile devices may be various types of communication devices. Such mobile devices may include Class A devices which are able to function continuously as dual mode devices capable of both media and data communications. Mobile devices may also include non Class A devices which may function as dual mode devices for initialization or prior to connection with the enterprise communications platform but may lose data functionality once a media session e.g. voice call is established. The enterprise network may also include additional client devices which are voice only or media only devices which may be digital or analog for communication with the PSTN or PLMN and which may not have data capabilities herein referred to as voice only or media only devices . In other embodiments the mobile devices may include any suitable client device configured with the communications functionality described herein and may for example include computer devices relays proxies gateways and any appropriate User Agents as defined in SIP .

The enterprise network typically includes a number of networked servers computers and other devices. For example the enterprise network may connect one or more desktop or laptop computers one shown . The connection may be wired or wireless in some embodiments. The enterprise network may also connect to one or more digital telephone sets one shown .

The enterprise network may include one or more mail servers such as mail server for coordinating the transmission storage and receipt of electronic messages for client devices operating within the enterprise network . Typical mail servers include the Microsoft Exchange Server and the IBM Lotus Domino server. Each user within the enterprise typically has at least one user account within the enterprise network . Associated with each user account is message address information such as an e mail address. Messages addressed to a user message address are stored on the enterprise network in the mail server . The messages may be retrieved by the user using a messaging application such as an e mail client application. The messaging application may be operating on a user s computer connected to the enterprise network within the enterprise. In some embodiments the user may be permitted to access stored messages using a remote computer for example at another location via the WAN using a VPN connection. Using the messaging application the user may also compose and send messages addressed to others within or outside the enterprise network . The messaging application causes the mail server to send a composed message to the addressee often via the WAN .

The relay serves to route messages received over the PLMN from the mobile device to the corresponding enterprise network . The relay also pushes messages from the enterprise network to the mobile device via the PLMN .

The enterprise network also includes an enterprise server . Generally the enterprise server is configured to collectively serve the needs of the enterprise network for example to provide and or synchronize messaging contacts and calendaring information between servers desktop workstations and mobile devices . Together with the relay the enterprise server functions to redirect or relay incoming e mail messages addressed to a user s e mail address within the enterprise network to the user s mobile device and to relay incoming e mail messages composed and sent via the mobile device out to the intended recipients within the WAN or elsewhere. The enterprise server and relay together facilitate push e mail service for the mobile device enabling the user to send and receive e mail messages using the mobile device as though the user were connected to an e mail client within the enterprise network using the user s enterprise related e mail address for example on computer .

As is typical in many enterprises the enterprise network includes a Private Branch eXchange although in various embodiments the PBX may be a standard PBX or an IP PBX for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX to refer to both having a connection with the PSTN for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls for the enterprise. The PBX is connected to the PSTN via DID trunks or PRI trunks for example. The PBX may use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit switched connections through the PSTN and related signaling and communications. In some embodiments the PBX may be connected to one or more conventional analog telephones . The PBX is also connected to the enterprise network and through it to telephone terminal devices such as digital telephone sets softphones operating on computers etc. Within the enterprise each individual may have an associated extension number sometimes referred to as a PNP private numbering plan or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from the PBX to the PSTN or incoming from the PSTN to the PBX are typically circuit switched calls. Within the enterprise e.g. between the PBX and terminal devices voice calls are often packet switched calls for example Voice over IP VoiP calls.

The enterprise network may further include a Service Management Platform SMP for performing some aspects of messaging or session control like call control and advanced call processing features. The SMP may in some cases also perform some media handling. Collectively the SMP and PBX may be referred to as the enterprise communications platform generally designated . It will be appreciated that the enterprise communications platform and in particular the SMP is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for connecting to and communicating with the PBX and or DID PRI trunks. Although the SMP may be implemented on a standalone server it will be appreciated that it may be implemented into an existing control agent server as a logical software component. As will be described below the SMP may be implemented as a multi layer platform.

The enterprise communications platform implements the switching to connect session legs and may provide the conversion between for example a circuit switched call and a VoiP call or to connect legs of other media sessions. In some embodiments in the context of voice calls the enterprise communications platform provides a number of additional functions including automated attendant interactive voice response IVR call forwarding voice mail etc. It may also implement certain usage restrictions on enterprise users such as blocking international calls or 1 900 calls. In many embodiments Session Initiation Protocol SIP may be used to set up manage and terminate media sessions for voice calls. Other protocols may also be employed by the enterprise communications platform for example Web Services Computer Telephony Integration CTI protocol Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE and various custom Application Programming Interfaces APis as will be described in greater detail below.

One of the functions of the enterprise communications platform is to extend the features of enterprise telephony to the mobile devices . For example the enterprise communications platform may allow the mobile device to perform functions akin to those normally available on a standard office telephone such as the digital telephone set or analog telephone set . Example features may include direct extension dialing enterprise voice mail conferencing call transfer call park etc.

Reference is now made to which show example embodiments of the enterprise communications system . illustrates an embodiment intended for use in a circuit switched TDM context. The PBX is coupled to the SMP via PRI connection or other suitable digital trunk. In some embodiments the PRI connection may include a first PRI connection a second PRI connection and a channel service unit CSU wherein the CSU is a mechanism for connecting computing devices to digital mediums in a manner that allows for the retiming and regeneration of incoming signals. It will be appreciated that there may be additional or alternative connections between the PBX and the SMP .

In this embodiment the SMP assumes control over both call processing and the media itself. This architecture may be referred to as First Party Call Control . Many of the media handling functions normally implemented by the PBX are handled by the SMP in this architecture. Incoming calls addressed to any extension or direct dial number within the enterprise for example are always first routed to the SMP . Thereafter a call leg is established from the SMP to the called party within the enterprise and the two legs are bridged. Accordingly the SMP includes a digital trunk interface and a digital signal processing DSP conferencing bridge . The DSP conferencing bridge performs the bridging of calls for implementation of various call features such as conferencing call transfer etc. The digital trunk interface may be implemented as a plurality of telephonic cards e.g. Intel Dialogic cards interconnected by a bus and operating under the control of a processor. The digital trunk interface may also be partly implemented using a processor module such as for example a Host Media 10 Processing HMP processor.

The SMP may include various scripts for managing call processing. The scripts are implemented as software modules routines functions etc. stored in non volatile memory and executed by the processor of the SMP . The scripts may implement call flow logic business logic user preferences call service processes and various feature applications.

The call control server is coupled to the PBX for example through the LAN enabling packet based communications and more specifically IP based communications. In one embodiment communications between the PBX and the call control server are carried out in accordance with SIP. In other words the call control server uses SIP based communications to manage the set up tear down and control of media handled by the PBX . In one example embodiment the call control server may employ a communications protocol conforming to the ECMA 269 or ECMA 323 standards for Computer Supported Telecommunications Applications CSTA .

The SIP server interacts with the media server using SIP based media handling commands. For example the SIP server and media server may communicate using Media Server Markup Language MSML as defined in IETF document Saleem A. Media Server Markup Language Internet Draft draft saleem msml 07 Aug. 7 2008. The media server may be configured to perform Host Media Processing HMP .

Other architectures or configurations for the enterprise communications system will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art. For example in example embodiments the service management platform may be separate from the PBX or the service management platform may include a cloud based system.

Reference is now made to which shows another embodiment of the enterprise communications system with a Third Party Call Control architecture. In this embodiment the SMP is a multi layer platform that includes a protocol layer a services layer and an application layer . The protocol layer includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally the application layer includes a plurality of applications that are exposed out to the communication devices and that leverage corresponding ones of the services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.

Specifically the protocol layer preferably includes protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example the protocol layer can include among other things a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP a Web Services protocol an Application Programming Interface or API a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols are plug ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in the enterprise network which will be further described below.

Although SIP may be utilized it is appreciated that the system can operate using the above disclosed or additional protocols. As known by those of ordinary skill in the art SIP is the IETF Internet Engineering Task Force standard for multimedia session management and more specifically is an application layer control protocol for establishing maintaining modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those of ordinary skill in the art the SIP protocol includes two interfaces for signaling SIP Trunk hereinafter referred to as SIP T and SIP Line hereinafter referred to as SIPL . Specifically the SIP T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non specific entity or not registered i.e. when communicating between two network entities . In contrast the SIP L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered i.e. when dialing to a specific extension . SIP is defined in J. Rosenberg et al. RFC 3261 Session Initiation Protocol June 2002 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

The SMP also includes a plurality of enablers among other things a VoiP enabler a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler a conference services enabler a presence enabler and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers is used by corresponding services in the services layer that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer is then combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application. For example a phone call service may use the VoiP or PBX enabler and an emergency response application may use the phone call service an Instant Messenger service a video call service an email service and or a conference service.

The application layer may include a conference services application that together with the conference services enabler enables multiple communication devices including desk telephones and personal computers to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in the conference server is provided in the enterprise network and is in communication with the conference services enabler preferably through the SIP protocol although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data may be appropriate such as the Web Services protocol or the CTI protocol . As will be described in further detail below the conference call server is configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices i.e. mobile devices telephones and computers .

Example conference call systems and methods in accordance with example embodiments will now be described referring now to which shows the system when used or configured as a conference call system. As shown the enterprise communications platform includes the conference server for providing conference call services for a number of client devices such as mobile devices illustrated as one designated host device and one or more participant devices . The mobile devices may collectively form a conference call group. The host device is generally the mobile device or associated user who schedules and hosts a conference call session and may for example be permitted to perform such hosting functions as roll call mute all broadcast only conference lock etc.

Generally in accordance with some example embodiments the enterprise communications platform may be used to determine whether a device requires a recording of a conference call. For example the device may have previously indicated that it would decline the conference call. In another example the enterprise communications platform may determine during the conference call that the device did not attend. During the conference call session the enterprise communications platform may store in memory a recording of conference call content. After the conference call the enterprise communications platform may push or send to the absent or requesting device at least some of the recorded conference call content. The recorded conference call content may also be pulled by a request from the device .

The enterprise communications platform and the associated conference server may be used for generally executing conference call functions. As described above in example embodiments the enterprise communications platform may include or be coupled to the media server wherein the enterprise communications platform controls the media handling and media sessions of the media server .

Referring still to in order to implement some of the conference call functions described herein the enterprise communications platform may communicate with the mobile devices by way of media sessions and or control sessions. Specifically as shown in the mobile devices communicate via media sessions shown as solid lines and control sessions shown as dashed lines to distinguish from the media sessions . For example the designated host device communicates via media session and control session . Participant device communicates via media session and control session . Participant device communicates via media session and control session . In some embodiments as shown the participant device may merely communicate via media session over the PLMN or PSTN only without an associated control session .

In some example embodiments the media sessions may be facilitated by the enterprise communications platform by way of Real time Transport Protocol RTP media sessions and may include voice calls video calls circuit switched calls or VoiP calls. In order to generate or establish a conference call session the enterprise communications platform connects or links at least some of the call legs of each media session . The particular methods and processes for connecting of media sessions into a conference call session would be understood by those skilled in the art which may for example be implemented by media shuffling or SDP Session Description Protocol media shuffling etc.

In some example embodiments a data connection e.g. the same data connection as used by the control sessions can be further used to provide additional data sharing between mobile devices . For example during a conference call the host mobile device may provide or transfer a data file to the remaining mobile devices . Data sharing may also include Web Services or sharing of presentation content.

In some example embodiments during a conference call session the enterprise communications platform can receive Global Positioning System GPS information from at least some of the participant devices and can send the received GPS information to the devices to provide location based positioning services between the devices .

Reference is now made to which illustrates in detail a mobile device in which example embodiments can be applied. The mobile device is a two way communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile device in various embodiments the mobile device may be a handheld device a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a smartphone a mobile telephone or a PDA personal digital assistant enabled for wireless communication.

The mobile device includes a rigid case not shown housing the components of the mobile device . The internal components of the mobile device may for example be constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The description of the mobile device herein mentions a number of specific components and subsystems. Although these components and subsystems may be realized as discrete elements the functions of the components and subsystems may also be realized by integrating combining or packaging one or more elements in any suitable fashion. The mobile device includes a controller comprising at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the mobile device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with the wireless network e.g. WAN and or PLMN to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD screen or any other appropriate display input devices such as a keyboard and control buttons persistent memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems data port such as a conventional serial data port or a Universal Serial Bus USB data port speaker microphone short range communication subsystem which may employ any appropriate wireless e.g. RF optical or other short range communications technology and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

Display may be realized as a touch screen display in some embodiments. The touch screen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the visible element of display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input device and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.

The wireless communication subsystem includes one or more communication systems for communicating with wireless WAN base stations and wireless LAN access points within the wireless network. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which mobile device is intended to operate. The mobile device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory or ROM . The processor can execute code means or instructions. ROM may contain data program instructions or both. Persistent memory may contain data program instructions or both in some embodiments is rewritable under control of processor and may be realized using any appropriate persistent memory technology including EEPROM EAROM FLASH and the like. As illustrated in the software modules comprise operating system software and software applications .

Software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

The software applications may further include a range of applications including for example an e mail messaging application address book calendar application notepad application Internet browser application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the display according to the application.

The modules may further include a Global Positioning System GPS module or application which is configured for detection of a geographical position of the device for example by correlating existing satellites. The GPS module may also receive from the enterprise communications platform the geographical positions of the other devices .

In some embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may comprise an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The auxiliary I O subsystems may further comprise one or more input devices including a pointing or navigational tool such as a clickable trackball or scroll wheel or thumbwheel or one or more output devices including a mechanical transducer such as a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the mobile device e.g. receipt of an electronic message or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some embodiments the mobile device also includes one or more removable memory modules typically comprising FLASH memory and one or more memory module interfaces . Among possible functions of the removable memory module is to store information used to identify or authenticate a user or the user s account to wireless network e.g. WAN and or PLMN . For example in conjunction with certain types of wireless networks including GSM and successor networks the removable memory module is referred to as a Subscriber Identity Module or SIM. The memory module is inserted in or connected to the memory module interface of the mobile device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network.

The mobile device stores data in a persistent memory . In various embodiments the data includes service data comprising information required by the mobile device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network e.g. WAN and or PLMN . The data can also include for example scheduling and connection information for connecting to a scheduled conference call.

The mobile device also includes a battery which furnishes energy for operating the mobile device . The battery may be coupled to the electrical circuitry of mobile device through a battery interface which may manage such functions as charging the battery from an external power source not shown and the distribution of energy to various loads within or connected to the mobile device . Short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the mobile device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communication subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a BLUETOOTH communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system software or software applications may also be loaded onto the mobile device through the wireless network e.g. WAN and or PLMN the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem such as . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory e.g. the persistent memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

The mobile device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and an optional voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an e mail message Web page download or an image file will be processed by the wireless communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an e mail message may be processed by an e mail message messaging application and output to the display . A user of the mobile device may also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the wireless communication subsystem over the wireless network e.g. WAN and or PLMN . In the voice communication mode the mobile device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone.

Reference is now made to which shows an example user interface displayed on the display for scheduling a conference call in accordance with an example embodiment. In the example embodiment shown the user interface is for example implemented by a conference call application as a stand alone or in combination with other applications resident on the host device for specifically communicating with the enterprise communications platform . The user interface may form part of a conference call session scheduling process.

Still referring to the user interface relates to scheduling of a conference call session having a subject and which is to occur at a scheduled time and date. For example the time and date of the scheduled conference call session may be stored within the conference call application or a calendar application. For example the scheduled conference call has a subject field of Weekly status meeting XYZ Corp Inc. and has a scheduled date field of Jan. 1 2011 at 13 00 . The user interface may be manually triggered by launching and subsequently operating the conference call application.

As shown in the user interface also includes an options menu to perform functions such as editing the existing scheduled conference call scheduling new conference calls and inviting new participants. During the conference call scheduling process the conference call scheduling information is sent from the host device to the enterprise communications platform which stores the information in a memory and sends an invitation message to the specified participants with the conference call scheduling information. In some example embodiments the host mobile device sends an invitation message directly or indirectly to the recipient invitee client devices . In some example embodiments the host mobile device receives a response to the invitation message directly or indirectly from the invitee client devices . The host mobile device may update the enterprise communications platform in such example embodiments.

In some example embodiments the enterprise communications platform maintains tracking information of the participant devices and updates the host device accordingly with the tracking information shown in .

At the time of the scheduled conference call or a specified time beforehand the enterprise communications platform may contact each of the devices to join the media sessions together. In example embodiments the devices may also dial or link into the enterprise communications platform using dialing or address link information received during scheduling.

As shown in the user interface includes a title bar a status icon an options menu and participant icons each or individually which display the status of each participant for the conference call. The participant icons can for example be a photo or avatar of the individual user. A cursor is also shown for indicating which item s on the user interface are to be selected e.g. controllable by a user input device such as a touchscreen touch scrollball or mouse . The status icon displays the present status of the conference call for example Scheduled CC Conference Call as shown.

Referring now to the participant icons in the example shown the user interface is displayed on the host device indicated as You Host as shown in icon . The participant icon associated with John is indicated as Declined . The participant icon associated with Sally is indicated as Tentative . The participant icon associated with Kevin is indicated as Accepted. Contact information such as e mail address or phone number for the participants can be pre stored in association with the participant names or can be manually entered as appropriate . The status of each participant icon can also be shown for example as Accepted Tentative or Declined.

As shown in in some example embodiments the host device can also select a menu to designate the scheduled conference call as a closed conference call. In a closed call only the specified or eligible participant devices designated by the host device may join the call. Additionally for example only a specified number of participants may join the call. In some example embodiments in a closed call further authentication of those participant devices may be performed when attempting to access the scheduled conference call. As shown the host device also has the option to use the menu to set the scheduled conference call as an open conference call wherein any participant device designated as eligible or not may join.

As shown in the host device also has the option to use the menu to set the scheduled conference call as a mandatory conference call. A mandatory conference call may have the same characteristics as a closed call. In addition a mandatory conference call may be mandatory for all participants who must either participate in the conference call session or subsequently receive and view a recording of the conference call session.

Generally in some example embodiments as part of the conference call session scheduling process after the conference call scheduling information is configured by the host device the same information is sent and stored to the enterprise communications platform . The enterprise communications platform subsequently communicates with each participant device for inviting to the scheduled conference call and for provisioning at least some of the conference call scheduling information. Each device has an option to Accept Decline Tentative or Forward. If the device selects Accept this means that the device will participate in the scheduled conference call. If the device selects Decline for example the host device is notified by the enterprise communications platform that the scheduled conference call has been declined by the particular device . The notification may be made by phone call data message email etc. If the host device Declines then the entire scheduled conference call may be cancelled and the other devices notified accordingly. If the device selects Tentative then the enterprise communications platform notifies the host device accordingly.

As shown in in some example embodiments the host device may be used to track the recording status of each of the participant devices . The recording status is typically synchronized or received from the enterprise communications platform which may store the same information in a memory. The recording status may include for example none for participant icons and and Record Requested for participant icons and . For example after receiving in a participant device an invitation message to join a scheduled conference call the participant device may respond by sending a communication to the enterprise communications platform containing a request for the conference call content to be recorded. The recording status would be updated accordingly as being Record Requested . After the conference call has ended the enterprise communications platform may send or push to the requesting device at least some of the recorded conference call content. The recorded conference call content may also be pulled by a request from the device .

Thus reference is now made to which shows a user interface for displaying a received invitation message on a non host participant device . The device first receives the invitation message from another communication device such as the enterprise communications platform with respect to a scheduled conference call. As shown the message as displayed can include a number of fields which relate to conference call scheduling information. The fields include Subject Start time End time Recurrence Host Organizer Web Information and Audio Conference Information. In some example embodiments the example user interface may be displayed using a calendar application or a dedicated conference calling application as a stand alone or in combination with other applications. The user interface may also form part of the conference call session scheduling process.

The invitation message may be received as an e mail message designating the participant s e mail address but can also be in other forms such as short message service SMS SIP message instant messaging or calendar invite. Note that in other example embodiments the message may alternatively be received directly or indirectly from the host device rather than from the enterprise communications platform .

As shown on the interface a number of response options may be selected in order to respond to the invitation message . As shown the response options include Accept Decline Tentative or Forward . Upon selection of one or more of the response options a communication containing the response is sent to the enterprise communications platform for tracking purposes. In further example embodiments selection of the Accept option may result in the details of the invitation message being stored in a calendar application of the device . The Forward option may be used to forward the invitation message to a new participant client device. In some example embodiments the Forward option can be further restricted depending on whether the new participant client device is permitted to join the conference call for a closed call for example limiting participants to those associated with a same enterprise. In some example embodiments in a closed call or a mandatory call the participants may be restricted to only the immediately invited participants. Accordingly the Forward option may be disabled or forbidden. In some example embodiments the Forward option can be further restricted if the maximum or specified number of participants is reached.

Still referring to in some example embodiments there is also displayed a Request Recording option for example using a checkbox. The Request Recording option may be used to request subsequently recorded conference call content with respect to the scheduled conference call. For example a a user may know that he or she will not be able to attend the scheduled conference call session and may select check off the Request Recording option prior to selecting the Decline option. In other example embodiments the user may want a recording of the conference call session no matter what the response for example even when selecting the Accept option.

Still referring to in some example embodiments there may be forced selection of the Request Recording option . For example for a mandatory call when mandatory is selected from menu the Request Recording option is automatically selected and may not be de selected. In some example embodiments for example for a mandatory call when mandatory is selected from menu the Decline option the Tentative option and or the Forward option may not be selected unless the Request Recording option is selected first. A suitable warning message or prompt may be displayed in response as appropriate. The forcing of the Request Recording option may be a client application determining that the call is mandatory e.g. based on a mandatory flag of the received invitation or in other embodiments an explicit instruction from the enterprise communication platform .

As shown in the invitation message also includes Web Information which includes an option to select an address link to activate a Join Now or Meet Now function. At the scheduled date and time of the conference call if the device had accepted the invitation message the device may receive a user input selecting the address link to request joining the conference call session. If the conference call is a closed call the enterprise communications platform may then authenticate the device for example by authenticating an identifier of the device in one embodiment using a particular persistent device identifier . Upon authentication a conference call session can be established between the device and the enterprise communications platform which can include a media session .

As can be appreciated in some example embodiments the address link identifies the enterprise communications platform as well as the scheduled conference call session and or the participant identifier and can include a Uniform Resource Locator URL a Uniform Resource Identifier URI or other suitable address.

During the conference call session the enterprise communications platform records the conference call content and stores in memory either in native form or using suitable compression processes. In some example embodiments the content may include presentation material e.g. a PowerPoint slide set of which the enterprise communications platform may further compress and render the slide set for viewing on the participant device . The content and presentation material may also be compressed to reduce bandwidth during over the air transmission. The presentation content may for example be appended to the audio or video content. In some example embodiments after the conference call session the enterprise communications platform sends the conference call content compressed or otherwise to those devices which had previously sent a recording request or in some example embodiments any absentee devices . When sending the enterprise communications platform may synchronize presentation material such as slides with the audio or video portion of the call so that the participant device is displaying the correct material.

Reference is now made to which shows another example user interface for displaying a received invitation message on a non host participant device in accordance with an alternate example embodiment. In the example embodiment shown a user may be forced to request a recording of the conference call if the user wishes to decline attendance of a scheduled conference call.

The device first receives the invitation message from another communication device such as the enterprise communications platform with respect to a scheduled conference call. As shown the message as displayed can include a number of fields which relate to conference call scheduling information. The fields include Subject Start time End time Recurrence Host Organizer Web Information and Audio Conference Information.

As shown on the interface a number of response options may be selected in order to respond to the invitation message . As shown the response options include Accept Decline Tentative or Forward as described above.

Still referring to as shown the Decline option may further be combined with an option to request a recording. For example the 30 Decline option or icon may state Decline and Request Recording as shown in . For example a user may know that they will not be able to attend the scheduled conference call session and accordingly selection of the Decline option automatically requests a copy of a recording of the conference call. Accordingly the combined Decline option may be used to receive a single action response to submit these responses. A similar combined option to request recording may be displayed for the Tentative or Forward options not specifically shown .

In some example embodiments for a mandatory call an application on the device may be configured to display the modified Decline option having the combined request for recording as shown. For open calls or non mandatory calls the device may display a regular Decline option button.

Reference is now made to which shows the recording status feature of the interface in greater detail for example after the conference call has occurred. As shown on the interface the status icon displays that the status of the conference call is a Completed CC Conference Call . During the conference call session the enterprise communications platform records the conference call content and stores in memory. In some example embodiments after the conference call session the enterprise communications platform sends the conference call content to those devices which had previously sent a recording request or in some example embodiments any absentee devices .

As shown by recording status the host device may track whether another device has received a recording of the conference call content. As shown the recording status may now include for example Recording Received for participant icon and Recording Viewed for participant icon . Note that in some example embodiments the enterprise communications platform may also maintain tracking of the recording status of the 25 participants and may update the host device accordingly.

In order to facilitate such tracking of recording status each non host participant device may include an application which receives the conference call content from the enterprise communications platform . Once received and in response the application of the device may send a confirmation message of receipt to the enterprise communications platform . Such a setting may be configurable by for example the host device or an administrator of an enterprise etc. This confirmation message would trigger the Recording Received status.

The received conference call content may then be displayed on the device . In some example embodiments this may be performed by a general purpose media application such as Windows Media Player or by a dedicated content player for combining audio video and or data or presentation content. Multiple video windows each representing a video of each participant may also be displayed as appropriate.

Once the conference call content is displayed on a device that particular device may detect a play event and if so send a notification message to the enterprise communications platform accordingly that the recording was viewed or at least played on the device . The play event may include playing the content from beginning to end. Such a setting may be configurable by for example the host device or an administrator of an enterprise etc. The sent notification message would trigger the Recording Viewed status.

In some example embodiments additional periodic reminder messages are automatically sent by the enterprise communications platform to those devices which have the recording status of Recording Received but have not yet viewed or opened the conference call content.

In some example embodiments not shown in during the conference call the enterprise communications platform may determine that a device had Accepted the conference call but did not actually attend. In such an example embodiment the enterprise communications platform may send or push the conference call content to that device after the conference call with similar recording status being tracked such as Recording Auto Pushed .

In some example embodiments partial progress may be tracked for example by percentage of time viewed or by tracking milestones or modules which are flagged during the recorded conference call etc.

In some example embodiments additional questions to be answered may also be sent to the devices along with the conference call content for example for training and evaluation purposes. In some example embodiments the answers may be in multiple choice or True False format which can readily track correctness of the exact answers. In other example embodiments there may be survey or opinion type questions multiple choice or otherwise which do not require a specific answer and only the fact that an answer was given is tracked. In other example embodiments long form answers are provided which can be manually assessed by the host user associated with the host device . The answers to the questions may be received and tracked by the enterprise communications platform accordingly. For example this may include the host device sending a list of questions and answers if appropriate to the enterprise communications platform . This may be done prior to during of after the scheduled conference call. The enterprise communications platform may then send the questions to the participant devices for answering. This may be done prior to during of after the scheduled conference call. The enterprise communications platform may then receive the answers from the participant devices and compare with any stored answers if appropriate . The enterprise communications platform may also forward the answers to the host device . The answers may then be received and tracked by the host device . Finally the host user may enter any approvals of the answers in the host device which may further send corresponding approvals to the enterprise communications platform for tracking purposes. If the answers from a given participant device are not approved for incompleteness or incorrect answers the host device or the enterprise communications platform may notify the participant device accordingly for re answering of at least the incomplete or incorrect answers or sometimes some or all of the questions .

Reference is now made to which shows an example conversation between the enterprise communications platform a declining device and an accepting device in accordance with an example embodiment. Generally the declining device has declined participation in the scheduled conference call session while the accepting device has accepted participation in the scheduled conference call session. In the example embodiment shown the enterprise communications platform includes a memory for storing conference call scheduling information which can include tracking the invitation message responses as well as the recording status of each device . The memory may also store recorded conference call content which is recorded during the conference call session. Reference to communication may be singular or plural.

At communication the enterprise communications platform sends to the declining client device an invitation message containing at least some of the conference call scheduling information with respect to the scheduled conference call session. The declining client device displays an interface in relation to the invitation message for example the interface . The interface can include an option to Decline the invitation message. The interface can also include an option to send a request for recorded conference call content of the scheduled conference call session. At communication the response to the invitation message is sent for example Decline in this example along with the request for content .

At communication in example embodiments the enterprise communications platform may send to the accepting client device an invitation message. At communication the accepting client device may send a response to the invitation message for example Accept in this example without any request for content .

At communication at the time of the scheduled conference call or beforehand the accepting device may send a join now request to the enterprise communications platform with respect to the scheduled conference call. For example this may be accomplished by selecting a join now link or by simply dialing into the enterprise communications platform . This may be performed using an identifier of the accepting device for example an e mail address a Personal Information Number PIN or a telephone number e.g. identified using call display . The enterprise communications platform then determines whether the accepting device is authorized to participate. In response at communication a conference call session is established which can include a media leg as between the enterprise communications platform and the accepting device . The media leg may then be joined with other media legs for establishing the conference call session . The enterprise communications platform records the conference call content during the conference call session and stores in memory.

Continuing with the example at communication after completion of the scheduled conference call the enterprise communications platform may automatically send at least some of the recorded conference call content to the declining device based on detection of an absence event. In some example embodiments the recorded conference call content is sent to only those devices which specifically responded to the invitation message with a request for the content. In some example embodiments the content is sent to any device which is detected as being absent for the conference call session.

At communication the declining device may send a message for confirmation of receiving the recorded conference call content. At communication when the user views the content the declining device may detect a play event of the recorded conference call content and in response send a message to the enterprise communications platform for confirmation of playing the recorded conference call content.

It would be appreciated that some conventional conference call systems may flag participation as mandatory but may not be truly mandatory in terms of being able to ensure attendance or review from the invited participants.

Some example embodiments may be used for teaching or training. For example if the conference call was a learning session wherein the user is expected to review material presented example embodiments can monitor the user s progress through the recording and track when the user has completed or to what stage the user completes the viewing of the recording. In some example embodiments the recording can also include question s which must be completed by the user with results reported back to the host device or the enterprise communications platform .

In some example embodiments the enterprise communications platform may also integrate the audio portion of the conference call with a speech to text converter and provide a transcript of the call in the form of a document.

In some example embodiments one or more of the client devices may be permitted to annotate or comment on materials presented during the call followed by having his or her annotations or comments distributed to the other participants along with the conference call content.

In some example embodiments the content is suitably compressed or encrypted by the enterprise communications platform for example when sending content to a mobile handheld communication device . In some example embodiments the recorded conference call content is received and stored within the device . Accordingly the content may be locally resident and playable out of network coverage.

It can be appreciated that the specific words as shown in the various user interfaces are intended to be illustrative only. For example any suitable words or phrases may be used and would not be limited to the English language. For example any number of multi lingual variations in different languages may be 15 displayed or output from the device.

In some example embodiments all closed may be considered mandatory calls rather than having a separate mandatory option . In some example embodiments specific users or devices may be selectively designated as being mandatory while others may be designated as not being mandatory . In another example users of a specified group may be automatically considered mandatory for example some or all devices associated with a particular enterprise e.g. employees or a company or specific department etc. .

Variations of the above example methods may be used. While some of the above examples have been described as occurring in a particular order it will be appreciated to persons skilled in the art that some of the messages or steps or processes may be performed in a different order provided that the result of the changed order of any given step will not prevent or impair the occurrence of subsequent steps. Furthermore some of the messages or steps described above may be removed or combined in other embodiments and some of the messages or steps described above may be separated into a number of sub messages or sub steps in other embodiments. Even further some or all of the steps of the conversations may be repeated as necessary. Elements described as methods or steps similarly apply to systems or subcomponents and vice versa. Reference to such words as sending or receiving could be interchanged depending on the perspective of the particular device.

Variations may be made to some example embodiments which may include combinations and sub combinations of any of the above. The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this disclosure. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the present disclosure such variations being within the intended scope of the present disclosure. In particular features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected to create alternative embodiments comprised of a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative embodiments comprised of a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present disclosure as a whole. The subject matter described herein intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

