---

title: Trace detection of analytes using portable raman systems
abstract: Apparatuses and methods for in situ detection of a trace amount of an analyte are disclosed herein. In a general embodiment, the present disclosure provides a surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) insert including a passageway therethrough, where the passageway has a SERS surface positioned therein. The SERS surface is configured to adsorb molecules of an analyte of interest. A concentrated sample is caused to flow over the SERS surface. The SERS insert is then provided to a portable Raman spectroscopy system, where it is analyzed for the analyte of interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09194805&OS=09194805&RS=09194805
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09194805
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140827
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 870 496 filed on Aug. 27 2013 and entitled SERS SAMPLING METHODS FOR HANDHELD PORTABLE RAMAN the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Portable Raman systems are used in the field by a variety of personnel e.g. military civilian safety homeland security etc. to identify or detect a material of interest. Portable Raman systems however are often limited by proximity to an object that is to be analyzed. Additionally portable Raman systems are limited in sensitivity.

In an operation of a portable Raman system a liquid or solid sample is acquired or formed and placed in a vial. The vial in turn is positioned relative to a laser of the portable Raman system which directs laser light towards the sample in the vial. Summarily a detector can detect backscattered radiation from the point of illumination of the laser and features of the backscattered radiation are indicative of a type of molecule in the sample. Again however portable Raman systems are sometimes unable to perform all functions desired by an end user due to the limitations of conventional Raman systems referenced above.

The present disclosure provides apparatuses and methods for in situ trace detection of an analyte. In a general embodiment the present disclosure provides an apparatus that facilitates performance of trace detection of at least one analyte. The apparatus comprises a surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy SERS insert. The SERS insert comprises a proximal end a distal end a plurality of passageways that extend laterally through the SERS insert from the proximal end to the distal end and a plurality of SERS surfaces that are respectively positioned in the passageways. Each of the SERS surfaces is configured to attract molecules of the at least one analyte. The SERS insert is configured for insertion into a handheld Raman spectroscopy system.

Generally the SERS insert can be configured for use with conventional portable Raman spectroscopy systems Raman systems . Thus the SERS insert has a size and shape that accord to vials used in conventional portable Raman systems. The SERS insert includes at least one passageway e.g. channel that extends laterally through the SERS insert. A SERS surface is positioned in the passageway of the SERS insert where the SERS surface is composed of a metal such as gold or silver and is optionally functionalized to attract molecules of an analyte of interest. For instance the SERS surface can be functionalized to attract molecules of an explosive such as trinitrotoluene TNT . In another example a SERS surface need not be functionalized but nevertheless attracts molecules of an analyte of interest. A position of the SERS surface in the passageway is selected such that a focal point of a laser beam emitted by a laser in the portable Raman system is on the SERS surface.

To allow for performance of trace detection a concentrated sample is directed through the passageway of the SERS insert prior to the SERS insert being provided to the portable Raman system. A system is described herein that is configured to acquire the concentrated sample and subsequently direct the concentrated sample through the passageway of the SERS insert wherein the SERS surface of the SERS insert attracts molecules of an analyte of interest that exist in the concentrated sample. The above mentioned system includes a receiving region that is configured to receive the SERS insert and mechanically stabilize the SERS insert relative to the remainder of the system. When positioned in the receiving region the SERS insert is placed in fluid communication with an inlet flowpath and an outlet flowpath where the concentrated sample is introduced to the SERS insert by way of the inlet flowpath and exits the SERS insert by way of the outlet flowpath.

Described briefly in operation the system is configured to acquire the concentrated sample and thereafter cause the concentrated sample to flow through the passageway of the SERS insert entering the passageway at the inlet flowpath and exiting the passageway at the outlet flowpath. When the concentrated sample includes molecules of the analyte of interest at least some of such molecules will be attracted to the SERS surface positioned in the passageway of the SERS insert. Because the sample is concentrated e.g. the parts per million ppm of the molecule will be increased relative to a sample upon which the concentrated sample is based when the analyte is present in the sample there will be a sufficient volume of molecules of the analyte in the concentrated sample to allow for detection of the analyte when the SERS surface is interrogated by way of a portable Raman system. Once the concentrated sample has been directed through the passageway of the SERS insert the SERS insert can be removed from the system and provided to the portable Raman system.

Additional features and advantages are described herein and will be apparent from the following Detailed Description and the figures.

Apparatuses and methods for in situ trace detection of an analyte are disclosed herein. Generally technologies pertaining to surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy SERS are leveraged to enable trace detection of the analyte where advantageous properties of SERS are leveraged to enable such trace detection. The SERS effect is produced when the electric field of an analyte interacts with the electric field of a surface upon which the analyte is located. Typically the surface is a roughened metal surface that results in an increase in a Raman signal of up to 10 orders of magnitude. Applications of the technologies described herein include but are not limited to detection in situ detection of contraband materials such as explosives illicit drugs etc. in situ detection of environmental pollutants amongst other applications.

With reference now to in an embodiment a system that facilitates in situ trace detection of an analyte is illustrated. As will be described in greater detail herein surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy SERS is leveraged to facilitate such in situ trace detection of the analyte where a concentrated volume of the analyte is provided to a SERS surface and advantageous features of SERS are leveraged to perform the above referenced trace detection. The system comprises a SERS insert . The SERS insert can be composed of a transparent material such as glass a plastic or the like. The SERS insert can have a shape that conforms to a conventional portable Raman spectroscopy system Raman system . For instance the SERS insert may be cylindrical such that it mimics the shape of a vial that is typically used in conventional portable Raman systems. In other examples the shape of the SERS insert may be cubicle an ellipsoid or the like.

The SERS insert has a proximal end and a distal end wherein the proximal end and the distal and define a lateral length of the SERS insert . The SERS insert further includes at least one passageway e.g. channel that extends laterally through the SERS insert between the proximal end and the distal end . The SERS insert further comprises an SERS surface that is positioned in the passageway . The SERS surface can be composed of a suitable metal such as gold or silver where the surface of such metal is roughened to enhance a Raman signal with respect to an analyte of interest. As will be described in greater detail below the SERS surface can facilitate 1 attraction between the SERS surface and molecules of the analyte of interest and 2 enhancement of a Raman signal when the SERS surface is interrogated by a laser of a portable Raman system. In an example the SERS surface can be functionalized to facilitate the attraction and enhancement referenced above. In another example the SERS surface need not be functionalized instead the SERS surface can be non functionalized roughened or patterned metal. Exemplary analytes include but are not limited to contraband materials such as explosives illicit drugs etc. environmental pollutants and the like. In a particular example the SERS surface can be modified using thiol chemistry which can facilitate enhanced detection of TNT vapors when a portable Raman system interrogates the SERS surface .

As can be ascertained even when a volume of air includes an analyte to detect such analyte in the volume of air a sufficient volume of molecules of the analyte must be introduced to the SERS surface . The system is configured to acquire a concentrated sample and introduce the concentrated sample to the SERS surface by way of the passageway in the SERS insert . Therefore when traces of the analyte of interest are existent in a region being monitored e.g. in the air then the concentrated sample will have a sufficient volume of molecules of the analyte to allow for trace detection of the analyte when the SERS surface is interrogated with a laser of a portable Raman system. Conversely when traces of the analyte are not existent in the region being monitored the concentrated sample will fail to include molecules of the analyte and therefore interrogation of the SERS surface will result in a determination that the region being monitored fails to include the analyte.

The system additionally includes a receiving system that is configured to mechanically secure stabilize the SERS insert in an appropriate position in the system . For example the receiving system may include notches clasps or the like that when interfaced with the SERS insert cause the SERS insert to be mechanically stabilized in the receiving system .

The system also comprises a pre concentrator and an inlet flowpath wherein the SERS insert is in fluid communication with the pre concentrator by way of the inlet flowpath . More specifically the inlet flowpath fluidically couples the pre concentrator with the passageway of the SERS insert at the proximal end of the SERS insert . The system also includes a sample pump and a sample flowpath wherein the pre concentrator and the sample pump are in fluid communication by way of the sample flowpath . As shown in an example the sample flowpath and the inlet flowpath may intersect between the pre concentrator and the SERS insert .

The system also comprises a heater that is positioned relative to the pre concentrator such that heat generated by the heater can be transferred to the pre concentrator e.g. heat can be transferred to an internal chamber of the pre concentrator . The heater may be a resistive heater or other suitable heater.

The system also comprises an analysis pump and an outlet flowpath wherein the outlet flowpath fluidically couples the passageway of the SERS insert with the analysis pump at the distal end of the SERS insert . As will be described below in some embodiments one or more of the pre concentrator heater sampling pump and or sample flowpath are not included in the system .

Operation of the system will now be described. The system is placed in a region where for example one of a sample of air or a sample from a material is to be analyzed for existence of an analyte. The material may be for instance a cloth a swab a metal mesh plastic a cotton wipe or any other suitable medium. With respect to the material such cloth may have been wiped across another material such as an article of clothing a piece of baggage etc. to acquire a sample.

As shown by the circles in the air such air may include trace amounts of the analyte of interest. The sampling pump is activated causing the air to be directed through a chamber in the pre concentrator at a predefined flow rate. For instance while not shown the pre concentrator may include a passageway therethrough such that when the sampling pump is activated air flows through the chamber of the pre concentrator . The pre concentrator includes a sorbent material that is configured to absorb of adsorb molecules of the analyte that is to be detected. Thus as the air flows through the pre concentrator e.g. and through the sample path until it exits the system molecules of the analyte are absorbed or adsorbed by the sorbent material in the chamber of the pre concentrator . After the sampling pump has been operated for some suitable amount of time the heater is activated to heat the sorbent material of the pre concentrator . This causes molecules of the analyte to desorb from the sorbent material resulting in formation of a concentrated sample where the parts per million ppm of the molecule in the concentrated sample is greater than the ppm of the molecule in the air .

Responsive to the molecules of the analyte being desorbed in the chamber of the pre concentrator the analysis pump can be activated. This causes the concentrated sample to relatively slowly flow from the chamber of the pre concentrator through the inlet flowpath through the passageway of the SERS insert and through the outlet flowpath . At least some molecules of the analyte are attracted to the SERS surface as the molecules flow through the passageway of the SERS insert . Because the concentrated sample has an enhanced concentration of molecules of the analyte relative to the air in the region proximate to the system a sufficient volume of such molecules may adsorb to the SERS surface to allow a portable Raman system to detect existence of the molecules of the analyte on the SERS surface and thus existence of trace elements of the analyte in the air .

When the sample to be tested is the material the material may already have a suitable concentration of molecules of the analyte thereon. Accordingly the system may not include the sample pump the sample flowpath the pre concentrator or the heater . Instead the material can be positioned in fluid communication with the SERS surface by way of the inlet flowpath and the passageway of the SERS insert e.g. the material can be placed next to a nozzle that is fluidically coupled to the inlet flowpath . The analysis pump can be activated which can cause molecules of the analyte to be released from the material and flow through the passageway in close proximity to the SERS surface . As described above the molecules of the analyte can adsorb to the SERS surface wherein when there is a sufficient volume of molecules of the analyte on the material a sufficient volume of such molecules will adsorb to the SERS surface to allow for trace detection of the analyte on the material by way of a portable Raman system.

Now referring to an isometric view of the exemplary SERS insert is illustrated. While the shape of the SERS insert is illustrated in as being cylindrical as mentioned previously the SERS insert may be any suitable shape so long as it can be received by a portable Raman system . In the example shown here the SERS insert comprises a plurality of passageways e.g. 4 passageways that extend laterally through the SERS insert . Each of the passageways has a respective SERS surface positioned therein. For example the first passageway has a first SERS surface positioned therein the second passageway has a second SERS surface positioned therein the third passageway has a third SERS surface not shown positioned therein and the fourth passageway has a fourth SERS surface not shown positioned therein. While the SERS insert is shown as including four passageways it is to be understood that the SERS insert can include more e.g. up to 10 or fewer as few as one passageways. In a particular example a number of passageways in the SERS insert can be between two passageways and four passageways.

As can be ascertained each of the passageways extend in parallel with one another and in parallel with an axis of the SERS insert . The passageways are defined by respective planar inner surfaces and respective outer surfaces where the planar inner surfaces are located between the central axis of the SERS insert and an outer surface of the SERS insert . Further the SERS surfaces are aligned with one another in a cross section of the SERS insert such that they are collectively positioned equidistantly from the proximal end and the distal end of the SERS insert .

Still further the SERS surfaces positioned in the passageways may be positionally biased along the axis of the SERS insert towards the proximal end of the SERS insert relative to the distal end e.g. the SERS surfaces may be closer to the proximal end than they are to the distal end of the SERS insert . This is because conventional portable Raman systems are configured to analyze solid or liquid samples in a vial where a laser of the portable Raman system is focused near the bottom of the vial such that a large volume of the solid or liquid need not be acquired to be analyzed by the portable Raman system. To avoid requiring reconfiguration of a portable Raman system the SERS surfaces are positioned in accord with the conventional focal point of a laser beam emitted by the laser of the portable Raman system.

Still further the SERS surfaces in the passageways are precisely positioned relative to the outer surface of the SERS insert . The reasoning for such precision is due to conventional operating parameters of portable Raman systems. As noted above lasers used in such systems are configured to emit laser beams with focal points at a particular depth in a vial. The SERS surfaces are positioned relative to the outer surface of the SERS insert in accordance with the aforementioned depth.

There are several advantages with respect to having multiple passageways through the SERS insert with respective multiple SERS surfaces positioned therein . A first advantage pertains to redundancy when the concentrated sample is directed to flow through each of the passageways each of the respective SERS surfaces will have been exposed to the concentrated sample and molecules can adsorb to each of the SERS surfaces. Thereafter the portable Raman system can be configured to analyze each SERS surface in the SERS insert . Obtaining more than one measurement with respect to the concentrated sample can reduce occurrences of false positives and or can increase confidence as to whether a region does or does not include traces of the analyte.

In another example SERS surfaces can be chemically derivatized functionalized with respect to different analytes. Thus the SERS insert can have different SERS surfaces functionalized differently e.g. for different analytes . Further the SERS surfaces in the SERS insert may include one or more non functionalized SERS surfaces. Specifically an issue with Raman spectroscopy systems is that if more than one type of molecule is existent in a sample when a portable Raman spectroscopy system analyzes the sample a combined spectrum may be output by the Raman spectroscopy system. This combined spectrum can be difficult to interpret. By having multiple SERS surfaces configured to attract different molecule types a single SERS insert can allow for relatively specific analysis of different analytes. This can reduce confusions false positives etc.

Returning to an exemplary operation of the system when the SERS insert includes multiple passageways with different respective SERS surfaces positioned therein is described. Initially it may be desired to cause the first SERS surface positioned in the first passageway to be exposed to molecules of an analyte if existent in a concentrated sample wherein the first SERS surface is configured specifically for the analyte. When the first SERS surface is to be exposed to molecules of the analyte other passageways in the SERS insert can be blocked e.g. the passageways can be blocked such that airflow through such passages is prevented.

Before or after blockage of the passageways the sample pump can be activated wherein various molecules of various analytes may be absorbed in the sorbent material of the pre concentrator or adsorb to the sorbent material of the pre concentrator. The sample pump may then be stopped and the heater can be configured to heat the sorbent material to a particular temperature wherein such temperature causes molecules of a first analyte to desorb from the sorbent material of the pre concentrator . The first SERS surface in the unblocked first passageway can attract molecules of the first analyte. Thereafter the analysis pump can be activated causing the concentrated sample which includes a concentrated volume of the molecules of the first analyte to flow through the first passageway over the SERS surface that attracts molecules of the first analyte. The analysis pump may then be stopped.

Thereafter the first passageway can be blocked preventing further airflow therethrough and the second passageway in the SERS insert can be unblocked. The heater may then be operated to further increase the temperature of the sorbent material such that molecules of a second analyte are desorbed from the sorbent material of the pre concentrator . In another embodiment the sample pump can be operated again to acquire more air into the pre concentrator prior to the heater further increasing the temperature of the sorbent material. The second SERS surface in the second passageway is configured particularly for the second analyte. Responsive to the heater increasing the temperature of the sorbent material in the pre concentrator such that molecules of the second analyte are desorbed the analysis pump can be activated thereby causing a concentrated sample concentrated for molecules of the second analyte to flow through the second passageway but not through the blocked passageways and in proximity to the second SERS surface . Molecules of the second analyte may adhere to the second SERS surface positioned in the second passageway . This process of creating a concentrated sample for a particular analyte and directing the concentrated sample through an appropriate passageway of a SERS insert such that a SERS surface configured for the analyte is exposed to the concentrated sample can be repeated for multiple analytes and thus multiple SERS surfaces .

Now referring to a cross sectional view of the SERS insert is illustrated. The cross sectional view of the SERS insert depicts the first passageway and the third passageway extending through the SERS insert from the proximal end to the distal end of the SERS insert . As described previously the first SERS surface is positioned in the first passageway and a third SERS surface is positioned in the third passageway . When the analysis pump is activated air flows in the direction of arrows and through the passageways and and the passageways and . A face of each of the SERS surfaces and is positioned at a distance D from the outer surface of the SERS insert . Similarly a front end of each of the SERS surfaces and is positioned at a distance of D from the proximal end of the SERS insert . D and D can be selected based upon operating parameters of a portable Raman system that is to receive the SERS insert .

Now referring to an exemplary portable Raman system is illustrated. The portable Raman system includes a recess that is configured to receive for example a vial. As the SERS insert is cylindrical it has the shape of the vial and therefore is configured to be received in the recess of the portable Raman system . In an example the SERS insert may have markings thereon and the portable Raman system may have corresponding markings thereon around the recess such that the SERS insert can be properly aligned when positioned in the recess of the portable Raman spectroscopy system . For instance when the markings and the markings are aligned a laser in the portable Raman spectroscopy system may be directed at one of the SERS surfaces of the SERS insert e.g. the laser may be properly aligned . The SERS insert may then be rotated in the recess to allow for analysis of multiple SERS surfaces. In other examples the recess and or the SERS insert may have mechanical stops associated therewith such that it is relatively easy to mechanically align the SERS surfaces with respect to the laser of the portable Raman system . In still yet another example the recess and or the SERS insert can have magnets appended thereto such that is relatively easy for a user to mechanically properly align the SERS insert in the recess .

Moreover the acts described herein may be computer executable instructions that can be implemented by one or more processors and or stored on a computer readable medium or media. The computer executable instructions can include a routine a sub routine programs a thread of execution and or the like. Still further results of acts of the methodologies can be stored in a computer readable medium displayed on a display device and or the like.

Now referring to an exemplary methodology that facilitates detecting a trace amount of an analyte through utilization of a portable Raman system is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a gas is directed through at least one passageway in an SERS insert that includes multiple passageways. As described previously the analysis pump can be activated to cause a concentrated sample to flow through the at least one passageway. Further as mentioned above a SERS surface is positioned in the at least one passageway where for example the SERS surface can optionally be functionalized in accordance with a particular analyte of interest. Thus molecules of the analyte of interest adsorb to the SERS surface.

At the SERS insert is placed in a recess of a portable Raman system. This is analogous to a vial that includes a solid or liquid being placed in the recess of the portable Raman spectroscopy system.

At the portable Raman spectroscopy system is operated to cause a signal to be output that is indicative of whether a trace amount of the analyte of interest exists in a sample. As described previously the sample may be air in a particular region a material etc. The methodology completes at .

Now referring to an exemplary methodology that facilitates introducing a concentrated sample to a SERS surface is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a high pressure sampling pump is activated to cause air to flow through a chamber in a pre concentrator that comprises a sorbent material. In an example the sampling pump can be operated for some threshold amount of time such as on the order of between 5 seconds and 10 seconds.

At a heater is controlled to heat the sorbent material in the pre concentrator to a particular temperature wherein such temperature can cause molecules of an analyte of interest an analyte that is to be detected to desorb from the sorbent material. This results in creation of a concentrated sample.

At a low pressure analysis pump is operated to cause the concentrated sample to flow through at least one passageway of a SERS insert. As described previously the at least one passageway includes a SERS surface that adsorbs molecules of the analyte. Thus molecules of the analyte will adhere to the SERS surface. As described previously at least acts and can be repeated with the heater operating at different temperatures to allow for concentrated samples of different molecules to be generated and exposed to different SERS surfaces of the SERS insert. The methodology completes at .

Now referring to an exemplary methodology that facilitates forming a SERS insert is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at multiple passageways are formed through a transparent material of a predefined shape. As noted above in an example such shape may be cylindrical. At for each passageway a respective SERS surface is positioned therein wherein each SERS surface is respectively configured to attract molecules of a respective analyte. In an example one or more of the SERS surfaces may be functionalized with respect to one or more analytes. For instance the SERS surfaces may be functionalized with respect to the same analyte. In another example the SERS services may be functionalized with respect to different analytes. The methodology completes at .

By way of example and not limitation the following examples are illustrative of various embodiments of the present disclosure.

The feasibility of performing SERS with a portable Raman system has been verified using the Thermo Scientific First Defender RM Ahura . The SERS enhancement of signals from benzoic acid and representative target materials ammonium nitrate and TNT have been demonstrated using 1 a laboratory instrument and commercial SERS surfaces silver impregnated sol gel vials from RealTime Analyzers and 2 patterned SERS slides from D3 Technologies Klarite . Both technologies use small metal particles for providing the SERS effect. Klarite relies on gold coated patterned silicon to provide a consistent surface for SERS while RealTime uses silver nanoparticles imbedded in a sol gel that is coated on the inner surface of small vials. Both methods are optimized for a 785 nm excitation laser minimal power .

The SERS effect and its detection limit were investigated using benzoic acid and the sol gel coated RealTime vials. The 2 ml vials were coated with a sol gel containing nanoparticles of silver. In solution analytes diffuse through the matrix and interact with the silver particles producing the SERS effect. Benzoic acid solutions varying in concentration from 100 ppm to 10000 ppm were prepared in methanol and analyzed using standard liquid sampling. These solutions were first sampled using standard vials and slides to provide a baseline measurement where the small benzoic acid bands can be seen on the large methanol bands in the graph of . With no SERS enhancement bands cannot be detected at 100 ppm benzoic acid.

Placing these solutions in the RealTime SERS vials was shown to significantly increase the detection limit. SERS allows detection of at least a 10 ppm benzoic acid solution as shown in graph of . It can be noted that the bands of benzoic acid are at a slightly different location in SERS than they are in solution. This is because the plasmon interaction between the analyte and the SERS nanoparticles enhance different Raman transitions.

RealTime SERS vials containing the benzoic acid solutions were subsequently analyzed using the Thermo Scientific First Defender RM. Signals similar to those seen in were obtained using the handheld system and such signals are shown in graph of . As expected these signals could not be matched to benzoic acid in the Ahura library due to the SERS shift of the bands.

The enhancement of ammonium nitrate by SERS was investigated using SERS vials and SERS patterned substrates Klarite slides . A 1000 ppm solution of ammonium nitrate was prepared in water. Raman data collected from the solution are shown the graph of along with the data collected from the solution placed in a SERS vial. All data were collected with the same instrument parameters dwell time laser power etc. . Small peaks are barely visible in the original spectral data when expanded shown in window of . When placed in the SERS vial ammonium nitrate peaks are readily detectable indicating SERS enhancement.

The 1000 ppm ammonium nitrate solution was spotted onto a Klarite slide. Maps of the spots were collected in order to discern concentration variation. A color intensity map of the 1052 cmnitrate peak is shown overlaid on the visible image of the slide in the plot of . Within the visible image crystal formation can be clearly seen in the lower right corner where as expected nitrate concentration is high. However significant signal is seen far from the crystal where solution had diffused lower left graph extracted from upper right corner of map indicating SERS enhancement is likely occurring.

Both the vials and the patterned slides were used to show an enhancement of an ammonium nitrate signal 1000 ppm . The enhancement seen with the vials was slight but significant compared to no enhancement. The patterned slide provided a significant enhancement of the Raman signal over that seen in the vials and unenhanced solution.

The enhancement of TNT by SERS was investigated using SERS vials and SERS patterned substrates Klarite slides . A 10 000 ppm solution of TNT was prepared in acetone. TNT could not be detected at a 10 000 ppm level with or without SERS enhancement using the RealTime vials or the Klarite patterned surface unless visible crystals were found on the surface . Direct application of TNT by volatizing small amounts of TNT 1 mg or less in the presence of the patterned surface also failed to result in a measureable TNT signal.

Previous studies have indicated surfaces for SERS detection of nitro containing explosives will likely have to be functionalized in order to provide significant signal enhancement. The SERS surfaces were functionalized using thiol chemistry. Using a standard procedure methylthiocarbanilide was attached to the Klarite surface. The altered plates were subsequently exposed to various concentrations of TNT in acetone solution and TNT vapor. For the liquid samples a clear differentiation can be seen between those exposed to TNT and the thiol Klarite slides see graph of . TNT was readily detected at the 100 ppm level on the modified surfaces.

For the vapor phase experiment a thiol modified Klarite slide was placed in a closed petri dish containing 1 mg TNT. The petri dish was placed on a hot plate set at 50 C. The exposed plate was analyzed several days later. Results are shown in the graph of . Variations are notable in the spectra from the TNT exposed thiol Klarite.

All patents patent applications publications technical and or scholarly articles and other references cited or referred to herein are in their entirety incorporated herein by reference to the extent allowed by law. The discussion of those references is intended merely to summarize the assertions made therein. No admission is made that any such patents patent applications publications or references or any portion thereof are relevant material or prior art. The right to challenge the accuracy and pertinence of any assertion of such patents patent applications publications and other references as relevant material or prior art is specifically reserved.

In the description above for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that one or more other embodiments may be practiced without some of these specific details. The particular embodiments described are not provided to limit the invention but to illustrate it. The scope of the invention is not to be determined by the specific examples provided above but only by the claims below. In other instances well known structures devices and operations have been shown in block diagram form or without detail in order to avoid obscuring the understanding of the description. Where considered appropriate reference numerals or terminal portions of reference numerals have been repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements which may optionally have similar characteristics.

It should also be appreciated that reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment one or more embodiments or different embodiments for example means that a particular feature may be included in the practice of the invention. Similarly it should be appreciated that in the description various features are sometimes grouped together in a single embodiment figure or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure however is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the invention requires more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive aspects may lie in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the claims following the Detailed Description are hereby expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment of the invention.

