---

title: Multi-dimensional framework for defining criteria that indicate when authentication should be revoked
abstract: Methods and systems are presented for defining criteria that indicate when authentication for an identified client device should be revoked based on rules associated with interested parties. Authentication information is stored that indicates that an identified client device is authenticated. Rules that are associated with a plurality of interested parties and include rules of different rule types may also be stored. Criteria may be defined based on the rules and the authentication information, the criteria indicating when authentication of the identified client device should be revoked. Authentication of the identified client device may be revoked based on the criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09461983&OS=09461983&RS=09461983
owner: Danal Inc.
number: 09461983
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140812
---
The present disclosure relates to client device authentication management and more particularly relates to defining criteria for revoking client device authentication based on rules associated with interested parties.

Methods and systems are provided for defining criteria that indicate when authentication for an identified client device should be revoked based on rules associated with interested parties and for revoking the authentication for the identified client device based on the criteria. Typically different interested parties define different rules indicating when authentication for a client device should be revoked. It may be difficult to determine which rules should apply for managing client device authentication when multiple interested parties are involved. Accordingly an aggregator system of the present disclosure may define criteria that indicate when authentication for an identified client device should be revoked based on rules associated with a plurality of interested parties. Interested parties may include a carrier system associated with the client device a merchant system a financial institution a government organization a school organization a country any other suitable interested party or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments an aggregator system stores authentication information associated with an identified client device where the authentication information indicates that the client device has been authenticated. The aggregator system further stores rules information including rules of different rule types where the rules are associated with a plurality of interested parties. The aggregator system further defines criteria that indicate when authentication of the identified client device should be revoked based on the authentication information and the rules information where the aggregator system reconciles the rules associated with the plurality of interested parties when a conflict exists. The aggregator system further revokes authentication for the identified client device based on the criteria.

In some embodiments an aggregator method includes storing authentication information associated with an identified client device where the authentication information indicates that the client device has been authenticated. The aggregator method further includes storing rules information including rules of different rule types where the rules are associated with a plurality of interested parties. The aggregator method further includes defining criteria that indicate when authentication of the identified client device should be revoked based on the authentication information and rules information where the rules associated with the plurality of interested parties are reconciled when a conflict exists. The aggregator method further includes revoking authentication for the identified client device based on the criteria.

The present disclosure is directed towards defining criteria that indicate when authentication for an identified client device should be revoked based on rules associated with multiple interested parties. The criteria may include for example events conditions a set of conditions or a combination thereof that may be identified by an aggregator system and that when identified indicate that authentication for an identified client device should be revoked. An authenticated client device may be allowed for example to make purchase transactions using protected information such as customer relationship management CRM information stored at a carrier system. The client device may be for example a mobile phone owned by a user having an account with the carrier system. The carrier system provides mobile network services to the client device. In the United States examples of carrier systems include systems operated by Verizon AT T and Sprint among others. CRM information as referred to herein is understood to refer to any suitable user specific data including personal information such as for example name address telephone number payment information client device location distance between client device location and the location at which the client device was originally authenticated any other suitable information or any combination thereof. A carrier system typically stores CRM information associated with its users. The carrier system attempts to keep its stored CRM information secure because of the sensitive nature of the personal information contained therein by defining rules that indicate when a client device may be authenticated to receive and or use the CRM information. Similarly other interested parties such as merchant systems may attempt to provide security by defining rules that indicate when a client device may be authenticated to make a purchase from the merchant system for example using CRM information. In some circumstances the rules associated with multiple interested parties may contradict one another. The aggregator system of the present disclosure may reconcile the rules associated with multiple interested parties when such a conflict exists. For example a carrier system may be associated with a rule that indicates that authentication for a client device should be revoked twelve hours after the authentication was granted a merchant system may be associated with a rule that indicates that authentication for a client device should be revoked twenty four hours after the authentication was granted and the aggregator system of the present disclosure may define criteria that indicate that authentication for a client device should be revoked twelve hours after the authentication was granted based on the rules provided by the carrier system and the merchant system and a priority assigned to each.

In accordance with the present disclosure a system is provided that is configured to define criteria that indicate when authentication of an identified client device should be revoked based on rules associated with interested parties and to revoke the authentication based on the criteria. In some embodiments this is accomplished by storing authentication information associated with an identified client device storing rules of different rule types associated with a plurality of interested parties where each rule is associated with a priority and defining criteria based on the rules and the priority associated with each rule. In some embodiments the defined criteria may include only one rule of each rule type. This allows client device authentication to be consistently managed when multiple interested parties are involved.

Criteria and rules may define any suitable events conditions set of conditions or combination thereof that may be identified by an aggregator system and that when identified indicate that authentication for an identified client device should be revoked. An aggregator system may identify events conditions or a combination thereof using inputs outputs processing equipment any suitable hardware or software direct observation computation notification a request for data or any combination thereof. For example a rule may indicate that authentication for an identified client device should be revoked twelve hours after the authentication is granted.

An authenticated client device may for example use CRM information accessed from the carrier system for any suitable purpose including for example populating corresponding fields of a form to be electronically submitted to a merchant system as part of a transaction. As used herein the term transaction shall be understood to include within its scope any suitable transaction registration any other suitable process or any combination thereof.

Aggregator system may be any suitable system which acts as an intermediary between two or more systems such as between client device and carrier system merchant system and carrier system client device and merchant system between any other systems and devices or any combination thereof. Aggregator system may act as an intermediary by facilitating the communication of information such as payment information e.g. credit card information PayPal information routing number data bank account information billing address legal name social security number any other suitable information related to making a payment or any combination thereof and or registration information e.g. name address email phone number social security number payment information any other suitable information or any combination thereof between two systems. Aggregator system may be trusted by carrier system and may access CRM information stored in carrier system for secure communication to merchant system or client device . An example of aggregator system is the system developed and operated by Danal Inc. doing business as BilltoMobile located in San Jose Calif. which provides mobile payment services to merchants using data provided by United States carrier systems. In some embodiments of the present disclosure aggregator system may be configured to provide CRM information to client device or merchant system for use in a transaction via network .

Merchant system may be any suitable one or more entities capable of entering into a transaction with a client device. Examples of a transaction include a purchase transaction for goods services or both provided by merchant system a money transfer a bill payment a transaction that results in access to banking information banking services or both any other suitable transaction or any combination thereof. Merchant system may include for example a web server that publishes a website which requires personal information e.g. payment information registration information . Examples of merchant system include systems operated by Amazon.com Citibank freecreditscore.com among others. In some embodiments merchant system may be configured to communicate with client device e.g. enable a transaction using network .

Carrier system may be any suitable system which provides mobile network services to client device . Providing mobile network services to client device may include providing a carrier network to client device . For example a carrier system may be a system operated by Verizon Sprint or AT T.

Client device is any suitable hardware software or both that can be used to conduct a transaction with merchant system using the carrier network provided by carrier system . In some embodiments a client device of the present disclosure may be a mobile phone. A mobile phone may be associated with a mobile phone number a carrier system any other mobile phone identification information or any combination thereof. A client device may be a tablet device laptop device any other suitable client device mobile or otherwise or any combination thereof. In some embodiments carrier system may include or have access to CRM information associated with client device and may be configured to communicate the CRM information to aggregator system via network .

Communication circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to communicate with database and processing equipment and may include inputs outputs any other mechanisms which facilitate communication with other systems and devices or any combination thereof. An input or output is a relative communication channel that can be used to receive or send data respectively. A communication channel may be established as for example an IP protocol based communications session using any suitable network infrastructure including the Internet any proprietary LAN WAN any other suitable network infrastructure or any combination thereof. Inputs and outputs can be implemented as one or more physical ports a data storage device any other suitable hardware interface software interface or any combination thereof. For example aggregator system may include a carrier input coupled to a carrier system and configured to receive data from the carrier system a carrier output coupled to the carrier system and configured to output data to the carrier system a merchant input coupled to a merchant system and configured to receive data from the merchant system a merchant output coupled to the merchant system and configured to output data to the merchant system a client device input coupled to a client device and configured to receive data from the client device a client device output coupled to the client device and configured to output data to the client device any other suitable input or output or any combination thereof. While different inputs and outputs are described it will be understood that they need not be separate components and two or more of the inputs and or outputs may be implemented as a single component that can be used to send or receive data relative to more than one destination or source respectively. For example communication circuitry may include a transceiver such as an Ethernet card or any other suitable device or circuitry which facilitates communication with other systems and devices.

Storage system may include any suitable hardware software or both for implementing an organized data storage system capable of storing one or more databases and information related to for example merchant data client device data user data authentication rules and carrier data. For example storage system may include database . In some embodiments storage system may store information which is not stored in database such as information related to for example application programming interfaces APIs HTML for content pages any other suitable information and any combination thereof.

Database may include any suitable hardware software or both for implementing an organized data storage system capable of storing information related to for example merchant data client device data user data authentication rules and carrier data. Information related to merchant data may include for example stock keeping units SKUs related to goods for sale customer service contact information e.g. a phone number an email address a hyperlink for a website data related to criteria for revoking authentication any other merchant data or any combination thereof. Information related to client device data may include for example a mobile device number identification information associated with a client device any other client device data or any combination thereof. Authentication information may include for example information associated with an identified client device that indicates that the client device has been authenticated. Rules information may include for example rules each rule having a rule type and priority where the rules are associated with interested parties. In some embodiments database may store encrypted information. For example hashed information may be generated using a hash operation and the hashed information may be stored in database .

Processing equipment may be any suitable hardware software or both configured to process data received from other systems and devices e.g. a client device a merchant system a carrier system or any other suitable system or device process data to be output to other systems and devices generate data e.g. generate authentication information analyze data e.g. rules and perform other tasks. In some embodiments processing equipment may include one or more circuitries for performing the functionality as described herein such as credentials engine authentication circuitry invalidation circuitry transaction processing circuitry request processing circuitry data verification circuitry data integration circuitry any other suitable processing equipment or any combination thereof. The circuitries within processing equipment may communicate with one another to implement the features as described herein. Additionally the circuitries within processing equipment may all be implemented together on one or more devices. In some embodiments processing equipment may communicate with communication circuitry and database to retrieve or transmit information e.g. identification information authentication information rules information any other suitable information or any combination thereof . For example processing equipment may send identifying information associated with a client device such as a mobile phone number to database to retrieve authentication information related to the client device or user in possession of the client device.

Authentication circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to authenticate a client device. For example authentication circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. In some embodiments authenticating a client device may allow the client device to receive or request protected information e.g. payment information for example as a part of a transaction. Authenticating a client device may include authenticating a user in possession of the client device. In some embodiments authenticating a user in possession of a client device may include verifying the identity of the user. Verifying a user s identity may include for example requesting the user to provide uniquely identifying information requesting the user to provide a unique one time pin requesting the user to send a particular mobile originated MO message requesting the user to send a particular silent MO message requesting the user to complete any other suitable request or any combination thereof. In some embodiments authenticating a client device may include comparing any provided information related to a user in possession of a client device to any information stored in database for example to detect differences between the provided information and the information stored in database . For example authentication circuitry may be configured to verify the identity of a user of a client device by requesting information such as a zip code from the user of the client device and the information provided by the user may be verified against any previously received zip code information related to the user of the client device that is stored in database . In some embodiments authentication circuitry may be further configured to generate data which can be used to prove authentication such as authentication keys e.g. digital keys credential information any other suitable information or any combination thereof. For example authentication circuitry may be configured to generate credentials for an authenticated user in possession of a client device.

Credentials engine may be any suitable hardware software or both configured to determine criteria that indicate when authentication for an identified client device should be revoked. In some embodiments an authenticated client device may be allowed to for example receive or request protected information e.g. payment information for example as a part of a transaction. Criteria may include rules that specify events conditions a set of conditions or a combination thereof that may be identified by an aggregator system and that when identified indicate that authentication for an identified client device should be revoked. Events may be for example an event identifying the client device as lost an event identifying the client device as stolen an event identifying a deactivated mobile number associated with the client device an event identifying a fraud alert associated with the client device any other suitable event or any combination thereof. Conditions may be for example a predetermined time period after authentication of the client device is granted a predetermined number of uses after authentication of the client device is granted a change in information stored in database that is associated with the client device after authentication is granted a change in the identity of the carrier system associated with the client device after authentication is granted a change of the client device after authentication is granted to the client device a predetermined frequency of changes to the client device after authentication is granted to the client device a predetermined frequency of changes in information stored in database that is associated with the client device after authentication is granted any other suitable condition or any combination thereof. For example criteria defined by credentials engine may specify a condition that authentication for an identified client device should be revoked after it has been used to enable five purchase transactions on the client device. As another example criteria defined by credentials engine may specify that authentication for an identified client device should be revoked when an event occurs in which the identified client device is stolen.

Credential engine may be configured to define criteria based on rules for revoking authentication that are associated with a plurality of interested parties. Interested parties may be any suitable entity from which information associated with the client device may be received any suitable entity interested in protecting the information and functions available to the client device or any suitable entity that otherwise has an interest in regulating use of the client device or any combination thereof. Examples of interested parties include a carrier system that provides a carrier network on which the client device operates a merchant system that enables transactions to be made on the client device a financial institution that may provide financial services in connection with the use of the client device a utility company that provides infrastructure that allows the client device to connect to a carrier network a government organization such as a telecommunications regulatory organization that regulates the use of the client device a school organization that is interested in protecting information available to the client device a country in which the client device is being used any other suitable entity or any combination thereof. For example credentials engine may be configured to define criteria that indicate when authentication for a client device should be revoked based on a rule associated with a carrier system that indicates that authentication should be revoked twelve hours after it is granted and based on a rule associated with a merchant system that indicates that authentication should be revoked after it is used to enable ten purchase transactions.

The rules associated with a plurality of interested parties may include different rules of different rule types. Rule types may include for example a predetermined time period a predetermined number of uses an event identifying the client device as lost an event identifying the client device as stolen an event identifying a deactivated mobile number associated with the client device an event identifying a fraud alert associated with the client device a detected change between previously stored hashed information associated with a client device and current hashed information associated with a client device a predetermined change in phone device location a client device arriving at or leaving a particular location an unmatched gesture sequence as compared to a previously stored sequence e.g. stored in aggregator system or any other system an unmatched fingerprint scan as compared to a previously stored fingerprint scan e.g. stored in aggregator system or any other system an unmatched iris scan as compared to a previously stored iris scan e.g. stored in aggregator system or any other system a detected blood alcohol level exceeding a predetermined limit an unmatched DNA profile as compared to a previously stored profile e.g. stored in aggregator system or any other system an unmatched vocal recognition pattern as compared to a previously stored pattern e.g. stored in aggregator system or any other system an event identifying a change of account ownership associated with the client device an event identifying that an account holder associated with a client device has deceased an event identifying that an account associated with the client device has a payment status of past due an event identifying activation of a parental control associated with the client device a predetermined number of transactions made on the client device in a predetermined time period a predetermined number of transactions made on the client device with a given merchant system in a predetermined time period a predetermined amount of total refunds granted to the client device in a predetermined time period a predetermined amount of total refunds granted to the client device from a given merchant in a predetermined time period a request by an account holder associated with the client device a request by an interested party associated with the client device any other suitable rule type or any combination thereof. For example a carrier system may be associated with a rule of a predetermined time period type that indicates that authentication should be revoked twelve hours after it is granted and a merchant system may be associated with a rule of a predetermined number of uses type that indicates that authentication should be revoked after it is used to enable ten purchase transactions. As another example aggregator system may have previously received information related to a user s last name have hashed the previously received information presently receive information related to the user s last name in response to an attempt made by the user to authenticate a transaction hash the presently received information and compare the hashed presently received information to the hashed previously received information. In this example a carrier system may be associated with a rule type that indicates that authentication should be revoked if the hashed presently received information does not match the hashed previously received information. As another example a client device may be granted authentication keys that allow transactions to be made in some predetermined locations and prohibit transactions to be made in other predetermined locations and a merchant system may be associated with a rule type that indicates that authentication should be revoked if a transaction is attempted on the client device in a predetermined location at which transactions are prohibited.

In some embodiments credentials engine may have a multi dimensional framework such that criteria including only one rule of each rule type may be defined based on the plurality of interested parties and the multiple different rule types. For example a carrier system may be associated with a rule of a predetermined period type that indicates that authentication should be revoked twelve hours after it is granted a country associated with a client device may be associated with a different rule of predetermined period type that indicates that authentication should be revoked ten hours after it is granted and credentials engine may define criteria including only one rule of a predetermined period type that indicates that authentication should be revoked twelve hours after it is granted based on the rules associated with the carrier system and the country.

The rules associated with more than one interested parties may have a priority associated with each rule and in some embodiments credentials engine may be configured to define criteria based on the priority associated with each rule. For example if a merchant system and a financial institution each are associated with a different rule of the same rule type credentials engine may define criteria including only one rule of the rule type based on a priority assigned to each of the merchant system rule and the financial institution rule. A priority may be for example a number on a predetermined scale e.g. 1 100 a verbal rank e.g. high medium low any other suitable priority or any combination thereof. For example a rule of type A associated with a merchant system may be assigned a priority of ten a rule also of type A associated with a carrier system may be assigned a priority of fifty and credentials engine may be configured to define criteria that include the rule of type A associated with the carrier system because it has a higher assigned priority than the rule of type A associated with the merchant system. Credentials engine may be configured to assign priority for a rule associated with an interested party with any suitable technique for example based on the secrecy of the information provided by the interested party based on a contract between the interested party and aggregator system based on the rule associated with the interested party based on any other suitable information or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments credentials engine may be configured to determine one or more rules associated with a combination of two or more interested parties and determine a priority for the one or more rules. For example a rule that indicates that authentication should be revoked twenty hours after it is granted associated with a merchant system may be assigned a priority of ten a rule that indicates that authentication should be revoked ten hours after it is granted associated with a carrier system may be assigned a priority of fifty and credentials engine may be configured to define a rule for the combination of the merchant system and the carrier system that indicates that authentication should be revoked twelve hours after it is granted to the client device where the rule for the combination of the merchant system and the carrier system is assigned a priority of seventy. Credentials engine may be configured to define criteria with any suitable technique for example by selecting one rule of each type from the rules associated with individual and combined interested parties based on the priority associated with each rule. For example a carrier system may be associated with a rule that indicates that authentication should be revoked ten hours after it is granted to the client device a merchant system may be associated with a rule that indicates that authentication should be revoked twenty hours after it is granted to the client device the combination of the merchant system and the carrier system may be associated with a rule that indicates that authentication should be revoked fourteen hours after it is granted to the client device and credential engine may be configured to define criteria that include a rule that indicates that authentication should be revoked fourteen hours after it is granted to the client device based on a priority associated to each of the carrier system the merchant system and the combination of the carrier system and the merchant system.

Invalidation circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to revoke authentication for a client device. For example invalidation circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. Revoking authentication for an identified client device may prevent the client device from engaging in interactions which require authentication e.g. requesting protected information for use in a transaction . In some embodiments revoking authentication for an identified client device may include invalidating credentials for an authenticated user in possession of the client device. In some embodiments invalidation circuitry may receive instructions to revoke authentication for an identified user device when criteria e.g. events conditions or both defined by credentials engine have been identified. The aggregator system of the present invention may for example regularly check data relating to conditions defined by credentials engine to determine when a condition has been met and may receive event notifications from other systems indicating when an event has occurred. In some embodiments events may occur when an event notification matching an event is received for example by communication circuitry . For example credentials engine may define an event criterion indicating that authentication for an identified client device should be revoked if the identified client device is lost or stolen and invalidation circuitry may revoke authentication for the identified client device when an event notification that identifies the client device as lost or stolen is received by communication circuitry . In other embodiments condition criteria may be met when data associated with the authentication of an identified client device matches a condition. For example credentials engine may define a condition criterion indicating that authentication for an identified client device should be revoked 24 hours after the authentication was granted to the identified client device and invalidation circuitry may revoke authentication for the identified client device when data associated with the authentication indicates that it has been 24 hours since the authentication was granted.

Transaction processing circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to process a transaction on a client device such as client device of . For example transaction processing circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. In some embodiments transaction processing circuitry may use information stored in database to process a transaction. Processing a transaction may include for example submitting payment information completing a sale any other suitable process or any combination thereof. For example a user attempting to make a purchase transaction on a client device may be redirected from a webpage of a merchant system to a webpage associated with aggregator system and transaction processing circuitry may process the purchase transaction.

Request processing circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to process requests from other systems and devices such as merchant system of carrier system of and client device of . For example request processing circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. Requests may include a request to output information a request to accept information such as a rule a request to validate information a request to process a transaction any other suitable request or any combination thereof. In some embodiments one or more requests may be received by communication circuitry and passed from communication circuitry to request processing circuitry . Request processing circuitry may determine any suitable response to each of the one or more requests such as processing information retrieving information transmitting information any other suitable response or any combination thereof. In some embodiments request processing circuitry may be configured to process and or respond to requests received from other circuitries within processing equipment . For example request processing circuitry may receive a request for information associated with a client device and may in response retrieve information from database and communicate the information to communication circuitry to be output.

Data verification circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to verify information associated with a client device such as client device of . For example data verification circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. In one embodiment aggregator system may receive information associated with a client device from one or more sources and data verification circuitry may be configured to verify the information. In another embodiment request processing circuitry may receive a request from a merchant system to verify information associated with a client device and data verification circuitry may verify the information. Verification may include comparing received information to information stored in database comparing received information to information received from one or more sources deterministic matching probabilistic matching fuzzy matching any other suitable verification technique or any combination thereof. In some embodiments verifying information associated with a client device may include verifying information associated with a user in possession of the client device. In some embodiments data verification circuitry may be configured to compare hashed information associated with a client device that is stored in database with hashed information associated with the client device that was received at a different time and that is also stored in database to detect a change in the information associated with the client device.

Data integration circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to integrate information associated with a client device which is received from one or more sources. For example data integration circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. In one embodiment aggregator system may receive information associated with a client device from one or more sources and data integration circuitry may integrate the data received from the one or more sources. Data integration may include for example eliminating inconsistencies between information from different sources or between information received from one source and information stored in a database e.g. database eliminating duplicate information from different sources or between information received from one source and information stored in a database e.g. database any other suitable integration technique or any combination thereof. Sources may include interested parties such as for example carrier systems financial institutions utility companies government organizations universities schools any other suitable sources or any combination thereof.

Communication circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to communicate with database and processing equipment and may include inputs outputs any other mechanisms which facilitate communication with other systems and devices or any combination thereof. An input or output is a relative communication channel that can be used to receive or send data respectively. A communication channel may be established as for example an IP protocol based communications session using any suitable network infrastructure including the Internet any proprietary LAN WAN any other suitable network infrastructure or any combination thereof. Inputs and outputs can be implemented as one or more physical ports a data storage device any other suitable hardware interface software interface or any combination thereof. For example merchant system may include a carrier input coupled to a carrier system and configured to receive data from the carrier system a carrier output coupled to the carrier system and configured to output data to the carrier system an aggregator input coupled to an aggregator system and configured to receive data from the aggregator system an aggregator output coupled to the aggregator system and configured to output data to the aggregator system a client device input coupled to a client device and configured to receive data from the client device a client device output coupled to the client device and configured to output data to the client device any other suitable input or output or any combination thereof. In the context of the present disclosure it may be preferential for merchant system to not include a carrier input and a carrier output. That is merchant system need not be able to communicate with a carrier system in preferred embodiments of the present invention. While different inputs and outputs are described it will be understood that they need not be separate components and two or more of the inputs and or outputs may indeed be implemented as a single component that can be used to send or receive data relative to more than one destination or source respectively. For example communication circuitry may include a transceiver such as an Ethernet card or any other suitable device or circuitry which facilitates communication with other systems and devices.

Storage system may include any suitable hardware software or both for implementing an organized data storage system capable of storing one or more databases and information related to for example merchant data client device data user data authentication rules and carrier data. For example storage system may include database . In some embodiments storage system may store information which is not stored in database such as information related to merchant data for example APIs HTML for content pages any other suitable information and any combination thereof. In some embodiments merchant system may be configured to communicate any information stored in storage system or in database to a trusted aggregator system such as aggregator system .

Database may include any suitable hardware software or both for implementing an organized data storage system capable of storing information related to for example merchant data client device data user data rules data and carrier data. Information related to merchant data may include for example SKUs related to goods for sale customer service contact information e.g. a phone number an email address a hyperlink for a website merchant identification information payload information data related to criteria for revoking authentication any other merchant data or any combination thereof. Information related to client device data may include for example a mobile device number identification information associated with a client device any other client device data or any combination thereof. Information related to user data may include for example authentication information for an authenticated user credential information for an authenticated user any other user related information or any combination thereof. Rules data may include for example rules associated with an identified client device that indicate when authentication for the client device should be revoked. Carrier data may include for example the carrier network associated with a client device. In some embodiments database may store information in an encrypted form. For example hashed information may be generated using a hash operation and the hashed information may be stored in database .

Processing equipment may be any suitable hardware software or both configured to process data received from other systems and devices e.g. a client device an aggregator system or any other suitable system or device process data to be output to other systems and devices generate data analyze data e.g. confirm authentication information provided by a client device and perform other tasks. In some embodiments processing equipment may include one or more circuitries for performing the functionality as described herein encryption circuitry request processing circuitry transaction processing circuitry any other suitable processing equipment or any combination thereof. The circuitries within processing equipment may communicate with one another to implement the features described herein. Additionally the circuitries within processing equipment may all be implemented together on one or more devices. Processing equipment may communicate with communication circuitry and database to retrieve and or transmit information. For example processing equipment may retrieve credential information associated with a user in possession of a client device from database before allowing a transaction to be made on the client device.

Encryption circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to encrypt decrypt or both information such as for example a payload information to be stored in database any other suitable information or any combination thereof. For example encryption circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. Encrypting information may protect the information from being stolen hacked or otherwise leaked to a source which does not have permission to access the information. In some embodiments information may be encrypted using an encryption key such as a symmetric key an asymmetric key any other suitable encryption method or any combination thereof. For example an aggregator system may provision a merchant system with an encryption key and the merchant system may use the encryption key to encrypt information. In some embodiments the advanced encryption standard AES or any other suitable strong symmetric key block cipher should be used when information is encrypted by encryption circuitry . In some embodiments information to be encrypted may include a payload generated by merchant system . Merchant system may pass a payload encrypted by encryption circuitry to a client device and the encrypted payload may facilitate client initiated interaction between a client device and an aggregator system. An encrypted payload may be unique for a client device but not unique for each request made by the client device.

Request processing circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to process requests from other systems and devices for example carrier system of aggregator system of or client device of . For example request processing circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. Requests may include a request to output information e.g. identification information or authentication information a request to accept information any other suitable request or any combination thereof. In some embodiments one or more requests may be received by communication circuitry and passed from communication circuitry to request processing circuitry . Request processing circuitry may determine an appropriate response to each of the one or more requests for example processing information generating information analyzing information communicating with another circuitry within processing equipment transmitting data to database receiving data from database any other appropriate response or any combination thereof. In some embodiments request processing circuitry may process respond to or both requests received from other circuitries within processing equipment .

Transaction processing circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to process a transaction made on a client device. For example transaction processing circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. Processing a transaction may include for example submitting payment information completing a sale any other suitable process or any combination thereof. A transaction may be a purchase transaction a registration any other suitable process or any combination thereof. In some embodiments transaction processing circuitry may use data stored in database to process a transaction. In other embodiments transaction processing circuitry may use data received from another system such as an aggregator system to process a transaction. For example a client device may visit a website published by merchant system to make a purchase transaction and merchant system may receive information from an aggregator system such as aggregator system of to process the purchase transaction. In some embodiments transaction processing circuitry may pre populate transaction data fields with information received from another system or device or information received from database .

Communication circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to communicate with database and processing equipment and may include inputs outputs any other mechanisms which facilitate communication with other systems and devices or any combination thereof. An input or output is a relative communication channel that can be used to receive or send data respectively. A communication channel may be established as for example an IP protocol based communications session using any suitable network infrastructure including the Internet any proprietary LAN WAN any other suitable network infrastructure or any combination thereof. Inputs and outputs can be implemented as one or more physical ports a data storage device any other suitable hardware interface software interface or any combination thereof. For example carrier system may include an aggregator input coupled to an aggregator system and configured to receive data from the aggregator system an aggregator output coupled to the aggregator system and configured to output data to the aggregator system a merchant input coupled to a merchant system and configured to receive data from the merchant system a merchant output coupled to the merchant system and configured to output data to the merchant system a client device input coupled to a client device and configured to receive data from the client device a client device output coupled to the client device and configured to output data to the client device any other suitable input or output or any combination thereof. In the context of the present disclosure it may be preferential for carrier system to not include a merchant system input and a merchant system output. That is carrier system need not be able to communicate with a merchant system in preferred embodiments of the present invention. While different inputs and outputs are described it will be understood that they need not be separate components and two or more of the inputs and or outputs may indeed be implemented as a single component that can be used to send or receive data relative to more than one destination or source respectively. For example communication circuitry may include a transceiver such as an Ethernet card or any other suitable device or circuitry which facilitates communication with other systems and devices.

Storage system may include any suitable hardware software or both for implementing an organized data storage system capable of storing one or more databases and information related to for example account data rules and CRM information associated with a user in possession of a client device. For example storage system may include database . In some embodiments storage system may store information which is not stored in database and carrier system may be configured to communicate such information to a trusted aggregator system such as aggregator system .

Database may include any suitable hardware software or both for implementing an organized data storage system capable of storing information related to for example account data rules and CRM information associated with a user in possession of a client device. Rules information may include for example events conditions a set of conditions or a combination thereof that may be identified by an aggregator system and that when identified indicate that authentication for an identified client device should be revoked. In some embodiments database may store information in an encrypted form. For example hashed information may be generated using a hash operation and the hashed information may be stored in database .

Processing equipment may be any suitable hardware software or both configured to process data received from other systems and devices e.g. a client device an aggregator system or any other suitable system or device process data to be output to other systems and devices e.g. CRM information and perform other tasks. In some embodiments processing equipment may include one or more circuitries for performing the functionality as described herein such as message creation circuitry redirect circuitry request processing circuitry CRM information retrieval circuitry any other suitable processing equipment or any combination thereof. The circuitries within processing equipment may communicate with one another to implement the features as described herein. Additionally the circuitries within processing equipment may all be implemented together on one or more devices. Processing equipment may be configured to communicate with communication circuitry and database to retrieve and or transmit information related to user account data CRM information any other information or any combination thereof.

Message creation circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to create a message such as for example a short message service SMS message a silent SMS message any other suitable type of message or any combination thereof. For example message creation circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. In some embodiments message creation circuitry may be configured to generate an SMS message in response to a request from another system or device such as aggregator system of or client device of . For example carrier system may receive a request to generate an SMS message and send it to a client device and message creation circuitry may create the SMS message and may specify that the message should be sent to the mobile phone number of the client device.

Redirect circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to redirect for example a request information or both from one system to another system. For example redirect circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. In some embodiments redirect circuitry may be configured to redirect an SMS message from one system or device to another system or device. In other embodiments redirect circuitry may be configured to perform an http redirect from a website associated with one system to a website associated with another system. Redirect circuitry may additionally be configured to perform any other suitable redirect from one system to another system. In some embodiments redirect circuitry may receive instructions which cause the redirect to be performed. In some embodiments redirect circuitry may receive such instructions from request processing circuitry .

Request processing circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to process requests from other systems and devices for example aggregator system of or client device of . For example request processing circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. Requests may include a request for information such as user account information rules information CRM information any other suitable request or any combination thereof. One or more requests may be received by communication circuitry and passed from communication circuitry to request processing circuitry . Request processing circuitry may determine a suitable response to each of the one or more requests such as processing information communicating with another circuitry within processing equipment transmitting data to database receiving data from database any other appropriate response or any combination thereof. In some embodiments request processing circuitry may process respond or both to requests received from other circuitries within processing equipment .

CRM information retrieval circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to retrieve CRM information associated with a client device. For example CRM information retrieval circuitry may be any at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. In some embodiments CRM information may include information related to an account associated with a user in possession of a client device e.g. payment information name address social security number etc. or any other suitable information which may be obtained through interactions between carrier system and a client device. It should be understood that protected information associated with a user such as a social security number may only be accessed by trusted systems and devices to which permission has been granted by the user. CRM information retrieval circuitry may be configured to retrieve appropriate CRM information from database . In some embodiments CRM information retrieval circuitry may be configured to retrieve appropriate CRM information in response to a request received from request processing circuitry . For example an aggregator system such as aggregator system of may request CRM information associated with an identified client device from carrier system and CRM information retrieval circuitry may retrieve the requested CRM information and provide it to communication circuitry to be output to the aggregator system.

Display may be configured to display any information stored on or received by client device in any suitable format. Information displayed may include for example information requested by a user of client device information related to client device information related to a transaction information related to an mobile application information received from another system or device information to be sent to another system or device an SMS message any other suitable information or any combination thereof. Display may be for example a flat panel display such as a liquid crystal display plasma display any other suitable display or any combination thereof.

Power supply may be configured to supply power to client device . Power supply may be any suitable internal or external power source such as for example a battery.

Speaker may be configured to provide audible sound. The audible sound may be related to a phone call on client device an application running on client device an alarm set on client device a transaction any other suitable process or application or any combination thereof.

Microphone may be configured to receive user input such as for example audible user input. The inputs received by microphone may include information related to for example a phone call on client device a user in possession of client device a transaction any other suitable information or any combination thereof.

Keyboard may be configured to receive user input such as for example text input. The inputs received by keyboard may be information related to for example a message stored on or created on client device a user in possession of client device a transaction any other suitable information or any combination thereof.

Communication circuitry may include inputs outputs any other mechanisms which facilitate communication with other systems and devices or any combination thereof. Communication circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both. An input or output is a relative communication channel that can be used to receive or send data respectively. A communication channel may be established as for example an IP protocol based communications session using any suitable network infrastructure including the Internet any proprietary LAN WAN any other suitable network infrastructure or any combination thereof. Inputs and outputs can be implemented as one or more physical ports a data storage device any other suitable hardware interface software interface or any combination thereof. For example client device may include a carrier input coupled to a carrier system and configured to receive data from the carrier system a carrier output coupled to the carrier system and configured to output data to the carrier system a merchant input coupled to a merchant system and configured to receive data from the merchant system a merchant output coupled to the merchant system and configured to output data to the merchant system an aggregator input coupled to an aggregator system and configured to receive data from the aggregator system an aggregator output coupled to the aggregator system and configured to output data to the aggregator system any other suitable input or output or any combination thereof. While different inputs and outputs are described it will be understood that they need not be separate components and two or more of the inputs and or outputs may indeed be implemented as a single component that can be used to send or receive data relative to more than one destination or source respectively. For example communication circuitry may include a transceiver such as an Ethernet card or any other suitable device or circuitry which facilitates communication with other systems and devices. Communication circuitry may be configured to communicate with memory processing equipment speaker microphone keyboard power supply and display .

Memory may be one or more suitable memory devices such as for example a hard disk drive flash memory random access memory RAM an optical disk any other suitable memory device or any combination thereof. Memory may include identification information and other information . Identification information may include any suitable identification information related to client device . For example identification information may include information identifying hardware or software of client device information identifying a mobile phone number associated with client device information identifying a device model of client device information identifying a user in possession of client device information identifying a carrier system associated with client device any other suitable identification information or any combination thereof. Other information may include any information stored in memory other than identification information . For example other information may store information related to applications messaging photos and videos transactions merchants networks capacity and storage any other suitable information or any combination thereof.

Processing equipment may be any suitable hardware software or both configured to process data received from other systems and devices e.g. a merchant system a carrier system an aggregator system or any other suitable system or device process data to be output to other systems and devices process data related to mobile applications and perform other tasks. In some embodiments processing equipment may include one or more circuitries for performing the functionality as described herein such as authentication circuitry processing circuitry any other suitable processing equipment or any combination thereof. The circuitries within processing equipment may communicate with one another to implement the features as described herein. Additionally the circuitries within processing equipment may all be implemented together on one or more devices. Processing equipment may be configured to communicate with communication circuitry memory speaker microphone keyboard power supply and display .

Authentication circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired circuitry or both to authenticate client device . For example authentication circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. In some embodiments authenticating client device may include authenticating a user in possession of client device . In some embodiments authentication circuitry may communicate with a system such as a merchant system or an aggregator system via communication circuitry in order to authenticate client device . Authenticating client device may include prompting a user in possession of client device to input information. Information may be input via display keyboard microphone any other suitable user input or any combination thereof. Information may include for example uniquely identifying information related to the user in possession of client device . In some embodiments authentication circuitry may communicate with memory to authenticate client device . For example memory may store information received from an aggregator system such as aggregator system of and subsequent to prompting a user in possession of client device for information authentication circuitry may compare the entered information to that stored in memory .

Processing circuitry may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to implement any features other than authentication. For example processing circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. For example processing circuitry may be configured to run applications to compute information to process instructions to carry out functions related to client device operation to carry out any other suitable operation or implementation or any combination thereof.

At step authentication information associated with an identified client device may be generated and stored. In some embodiments authentication information may be generated by processing equipment for example authentication circuitry of . In some embodiments authentication information may be stored in a database for example database of . In some embodiments authentication information may indicate that the client device has been authenticated. In other embodiments authentication information may indicate that a user in possession of the client device has been authenticated. The authentication information may be associated with a client device that has already been identified for example by an aggregator system. In some embodiments authentication information may include one or more credentials associated with the client device. Credentials may include a digital key which may be used for example to enable a purchase transaction on the client device.

At step rules information may be stored. In some embodiments rules information may be stored in a database for example database of . In some embodiments rules information may be received by another system prior to being stored. In some embodiments rules information may include rules of different rule types where rules may be associated with a plurality of interested parties. In some embodiments rules may be associated with combinations of interested parties. For example a carrier system and a merchant system may each be associated with a rule of one type and the combination of the carrier system and the merchant system may be associated with a rule of a different type. Rules may indicate events conditions a set of conditions or a combination thereof that may be identified by an aggregator system and that when identified indicate that authentication for an identified client device should be revoked. Events may be identified for example when an event notification is received from an interested party related to a client device. Conditions may be identified for example by checking data related to authentication information e.g. time since authentication granted or by any other suitable process. For example an aggregator system may identify events conditions or a combination thereof using inputs outputs processing equipment any suitable hardware or software direct observation computation notification a request for data or any combination thereof. Different rule types may include for example a predetermined time period a predetermined number of uses an event identifying the client device as lost an event identifying the client device as stolen an event identifying a deactivated mobile number associated with the client device an event identifying a fraud alert associated with the client device a detected change between previously stored hashed information associated with a client device and current hashed information associated with a client device a predetermined change in phone device location a client device arriving at or leaving a particular location an unmatched gesture sequence as compared to a previously stored sequence e.g. stored in aggregator system or any other system an unmatched fingerprint scan as compared to a previously stored fingerprint scan e.g. stored in aggregator system or any other system an unmatched iris scan as compared to a previously stored iris scan e.g. stored in aggregator system or any other system a detected blood alcohol level exceeding a predetermined limit an unmatched DNA profile as compared to a previously stored profile e.g. stored in aggregator system or any other system an unmatched vocal recognition pattern as compared to a previously stored pattern e.g. stored in aggregator system or any other system an event identifying a change of account ownership associated with the client device an event identifying that an account holder associated with a client device has deceased an event identifying that an account associated with the client device has a payment status of past due an event identifying activation of a parental control associated with the client device a predetermined number of transactions made on the client device in a predetermined time period a predetermined number of transactions made on the client device with a given merchant system in a predetermined time period a predetermined amount of total refunds granted to the client device in a predetermined time period a predetermined amount of total refunds granted to the client device from a given merchant in a predetermined time period a request by an account holder associated with the client device a request by an interested party associated with the client device any other suitable rule type or any combination thereof. For example a rule associated with a carrier system may be received and stored and may indicate that authentication for an identified client device should be revoked twenty four hours after authentication was granted. Additionally each rule associated with an interested party or a combination of interested parties may be associated with a priority. The priority associated with each rule may for example be assigned by processing equipment such as credentials engine of and may be stored for example with the rule. For example a rule associated with a merchant system and a priority assigned to the rule may be received and stored and may indicate that authentication for an identified client device should be revoked after the authentication is used to enable twelve purchase transactions.

At step criteria may be defined which indicate when authentication for the identified client device should be revoked. Criteria may be defined for example by processing equipment such as credentials engine of . In some embodiments criteria may include one rule of each rule type. Each rule type defines an event condition set of conditions or combination thereof that may be identified by an aggregator system and that when identified indicate that authentication for an identified client device should be revoked. In some embodiments defining criteria may include prioritizing one rule associated with an interested party or combination of interested parties over another rule of the same type associated with a different interested party or combination of interested parties based on a hierarchical structure of priority for interested parties. For example a rule associated with a combination of a carrier system and a merchant system may be prioritized over a rule of the same type associated with only the carrier system. In some embodiments criteria may include a default rule if no rules were stored which have the default rule type. For example if no rule that indicates a predetermined time period for revoking authentication is stored then the criteria may include a default rule that indicates that authentication should be revoked forty eight hours after it is granted.

At step the aggregator system may determine whether defined criteria have occurred or been met. Defined criteria may have occurred or been met for example when at least one event of the criteria has occurred or at least one condition of the criteria is met. For example if the criteria includes an event criterion that indicates that authentication for a client device should be revoked if it is associated with a fraud alert and a fraud alert notification is received then this specific event criterion has been met. If at step the aggregator system determines that criteria defined at step have been met the system proceeds to step .

At step authentication for the identified client device may be revoked. Authentication may be revoked for example by processing equipment such as invalidation circuitry of . Revoking authentication of an identified client device may prevent the identified client device from for example accessing or using protected information such as engaging in a purchase transaction and using CRM information to complete the purchase transaction.

Multi dimensional framework may define criteria based on interested parties and . Each interested party may have one or more rules defined where each rule has a rule type. For example interested party has one rule of rule type 100 one rule of rule type 300 and one rule of rule type 400. Rules associated with interested parties may for example be rules generated by people associated with an aggregator system that acts as an intermediary between interested parties and and one or more client devices. Multi dimensional framework may determine rules for combinations of interested parties and . Rules for combinations of interested parties may be different than the rules defined for individual interested parties and may also be rules of different rule types. For example interested party has one rule of each of rule types 100 300 and 400 interested party has one rule of each of rule types 200 300 and 500 and interested party combination has a rule for the combination of interested parties and that is of rule type 400. Multi dimensional framework may define one rule of each rule type from the rules of the individual interested parties and combinations of interested parties. Defined rules may be enforced by an aggregator system and used to manage authentication for identified client devices. Multi dimensional framework may select one rule of each rule type from the rules of the individual interested parties and combinations of interested parties based on a priority associated with each rule and based on a hierarchical structure of priority of interested parties and combinations of interested parties. In the rules defined by multi dimensional framework are underlined. For example interested parties and and combination of interested parties may each have a different rule of type 300 and multi dimensional framework may define a rule of type 300 selected from combination of interested parties because it is the highest priority rule of type 300. A priority may be for example a number on a predetermined scale e.g. 1 100 a verbal rank e.g. high medium low any other suitable priority or any combination thereof. Multi dimensional framework may be configured to assign priority for a rule associated with an interested party with any suitable technique for example based on the secrecy of the information provided by the interested party based on a contract between the interested party and an aggregator system based on the rule associated with the interested party based on any other suitable information or any combination thereof.

At step a client device is awaiting authentication. In some embodiments a client device awaiting authentication need not yet be authenticated but may already be engaged in an attempt to be granted authentication. In other embodiments a client device awaiting authentication need not yet be authenticated and need not yet be engaged in an attempt to be granted authentication. Authentication may be granted by processing equipment such as authentication circuitry of aggregator system processing equipment of merchant system authentication circuitry of client device any other suitable processing equipment or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an authenticated client device may be allowed to access and or use protected information for example CRM information stored at a carrier system associated with the client device.

At step the authentication status of the client device may be checked. Authentication status may be checked by processing equipment such as authentication circuitry of aggregator system processing equipment of merchant system authentication circuitry of client device any other suitable processing equipment or any combination thereof. An authentication status may indicate that the client device is authenticated or that the client device is not authenticated. If at step it is determined that the client device is authenticated then the client device authentication becomes active.

At step the client device has been granted authentication and thus the client device authentication is active. In some embodiments an authenticated client device may receive a credential such as a digital key. In some embodiments an authenticated client device may engage in a purchase transaction or any other suitable transaction requiring authentication for example using CRM information stored at a carrier system associated with the client device.

At step criteria indicating when the authentication for the client device should be revoked are checked. The criteria may be defined by processing equipment such as credentials engine of aggregator system . The criteria may include events conditions a set of conditions or a combination thereof that may be identified by an aggregator system and that when identified indicate that authentication for an identified client device should be revoked. For example criteria may include a condition which specifies that authentication should be revoked 24 hours after authentication is granted to the client device. Criteria may be met for example by receiving an event notification which matches an event included in the criteria by data which matches a condition included in the criteria by any other suitable method or any combination thereof. If it is determined that the criteria have been met at step the authentication for the client device is revoked. Otherwise if the criteria have not been met the client device may remain authenticated.

At step client device credentials may be checked for validity. In some embodiments credentials may be received by a client device after authentication is granted. For example a credential may include an authentication key such as a digital key and a valid credential may be one which matches another authentication key possessed by a merchant or aggregator system. In some embodiments credentials may be checked by processing equipment such as authentication circuitry of aggregator system processing equipment of merchant system authentication circuitry of client device any other suitable processing equipment or any combination thereof. In some embodiments credentials may be checked for validity when the client device attempts to engage in a secure activity such as a purchase transaction using the credentials. If the credentials are not indicated to be valid at step the authentication for the client device may be revoked. Otherwise if the credentials are indicated to be valid the client device may remain authenticated.

At step the authentications status for the client device is inactive and the client device is not authenticated. In some embodiments the client device is not authenticated because authentication has been revoked in response to either of steps or . Authentication may be revoked by processing equipment such as authentication circuitry of aggregator system processing equipment of merchant system authentication circuitry of client device any other suitable processing equipment or any combination thereof. In some embodiments a client device that has an inactive authentication status may not be allowed to access and or use protected information for example CRM information. In some embodiments a client device that has an inactive authentication status may transition to step to begin the authentication process again.

Request processing circuitry may be request processing circuitry of or may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to process requests from other systems and devices such as client device of or carrier system of . For example request processing circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. In some embodiments requests may include a request to validate credentials a request to authenticate a client device a request to process a transaction any other suitable request or any combination thereof. In some embodiments request processing circuitry may receive requests from merchant system via communication path and may respond to such requests via communication path . For example merchant system may request that aggregator system validate credentials for a client device during a purchase transaction.

Credentials engine may be credentials engine of or may be any suitable hardware software or both configured to define criteria that indicate when the authentication for an identified client device should be revoked. Criteria may be defined based on rules of different rule types associated with merchant system carrier system any other interested parties or any combination thereof. In some embodiments criteria may be defined based on rules of different rule types associated with combinations of interested parties. In some embodiments defining criteria may include defining one rule of each rule type where the defining is based on a priority associated with each rule. Criteria may include events conditions a set of conditions or a combination thereof that may be identified by an aggregator system and that when identified indicate that authentication for an identified client device should be revoked. Credentials engine may define criteria based on information such as rules received by request processing circuitry via communication path . Credentials engine may additionally communicate with carrier system via communication path . For example credentials engine may define criteria based rules which are received by carrier system via communication path .

Credentials storage may be any suitable hardware software or both for implementing an organized data storage system capable of storing information related to for example criteria defined by credentials engine . Credentials storage may be included in database of . In some embodiments credentials storage may send or request criteria to or from credentials engine via communication path . Credentials storage may also send or receive information to or from request processing circuitry via communication path . For example credentials storage may store the criteria defined by credentials engine and may send data corresponding to at least a subset of the criteria to request processing circuitry upon receiving a request to do so.

Event handler may be any suitable hardware software or both configured to for example receive and respond to event notifications. In some embodiments event handler may be configured to receive event notifications from carrier system via communication path and may be configured to respond to these event notifications by sending information to credentials engine via communication path encrypted user data storage via communication path or both. An event notification for example may be used to check whether criteria defined by credentials engine have occurred or been met. For example credentials engine may define criteria that include an event specifying that authentication for a client device should be revoked when the client device is reported as lost or stolen and event handler may receive an event notification form carrier system indicating that the client device has been lost or stolen.

Encrypted user data storage may include any suitable hardware software or both for implementing an organized data storage system capable of storing information related to for example user data client device data identification data authentication data credential data CRM data any other suitable data and any combination thereof. Encrypted user data storage may store information in an encrypted form for example in a hashed form. In some embodiments encrypted user data storage may receive information from event handler via communication path and may send information to credentials engine via communication path . In some embodiments recent encrypted information may be compared to older encrypted information to determine whether a change in user information has occurred. For example encrypted user data storage may encrypt information received from event handler regarding a particular user and may send the encrypted information with older encrypted information regarding the same user to credentials engine to determine whether information associated with the user has changed enough to satisfy criteria for revoking authentication defined by credentials engine .

Credential engine may be credentials engine of and may be configured to define criteria that indicate when the authentication for an identified client device should be revoked. In some embodiments an authenticated client device may receive credentials and when authentication is revoked the credentials may be invalidated. Credential engine may include merchant rules provider rules data rules match score rules risk management rules data corroboration rules any other suitable rules or any combination thereof. Rules may define an event or condition which when matched may cause authentication to be revoked. In some embodiments credential engine may determine credentials based at least in part on these rules. Credential engine may communicate with request processing circuitry . For example request processing circuitry may pass rules to credential engine .

Request processing circuitry may be request processing circuitry of and may be configured with any suitable software hardwired instructions or both to process requests from other systems and devices such as client device of or carrier system of . For example request processing circuitry may be at least a portion of one or more integrated circuit processors. Request processing circuitry may include an acceptor a validator a data processor a response deliverer any other suitable component or processor or any combination thereof. The acceptor may accept a request such as a request to consider a rule and the validator the data processor the response deliverer or any combination thereof may be used to determine that the rule should be passed to credential engine . Request processing circuitry may communicate with data provider adapters and API gateway for example to accept or respond to a request.

Data provider adapters may be configured to enable communication between data providers and aggregator system . Data provider adapters may include carrier adapters configured to enable communication between carrier systems and aggregator system and non carrier adapters configured to enable communication between non carrier systems and aggregator system . Non carrier systems may include financial institutions utility companies government organizations universities schools any other suitable systems or any combination thereof.

API gateway may enable interaction and communication between aggregator system and other systems or devices such as client device of . For example a client device may make an API call directly to aggregator system such as an identification call or request for information call and API gateway may enable such an interaction. API gateway may include identification APIs account APIs consumer APIs payment info APIs match APIs any other suitable APIs or any combination thereof. API gateway may communicate with client device software development kits SDKs such as mobile phone SDKs . Phone SDKs may allow a client device such as a mobile phone to make API calls to aggregator system via API gateway . Phone SDKs may include biometrics device identification information any other suitable information or any combination thereof.

Portals may include systems which are external to aggregator system such as merchant systems rules management systems administrative systems reporting and marketing systems any other suitable systems or any combination thereof. In some embodiments portals may communicate with aggregator system a client device such as client device of any other suitable system or device or any combination thereof.

It will be understood that the steps above are exemplary and that in some implementations steps may be added removed omitted repeated reordered modified in any other suitable way or any combination thereof.

The foregoing is merely illustrative of the principles of this disclosure and various modifications may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The above described embodiments are presented for purposes of illustration and not of limitation. The present disclosure also can take many forms other than those explicitly described herein. Accordingly it is emphasized that this disclosure is not limited to the explicitly disclosed methods systems and apparatuses but is intended to include variations to and modifications thereof which are within the spirit of the following claims.

