---

title: Object information derived from object images
abstract: Search terms are derived automatically from images captured by a camera equipped cell phone, PDA, or other image capturing device, submitted to a search engine to obtain information of interest, and at least a portion of the resulting information is transmitted back locally to, or nearby, the device that captured the image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09170654&OS=09170654&RS=09170654
owner: Nant Holdings IP, LLC
number: 09170654
owner_city: Culver City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140901
---
This application is a divisional of Ser. No. 14 195 768 filed Mar. 3 2014 which is a divisional of Ser. No. 13 858 897 filed Apr. 8 2013 and issued Jul. 29 2014 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 792 750 which is a divisional of Ser. No. 13 705 071 filed Dec. 4 2012 and issued Aug. 27 2013 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 520 897 which is a continuation of Ser. No. 13 207 230 filed Aug. 10 2011 and issued Dec. 4 2012 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 326 038 which is a divisional of Ser. No. 13 037 330 filed Feb. 28 2011 and issued Jul. 10 2012 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 218 873 which is a divisional of Ser. No. 12 568 130 filed Sep. 28 2009 and issued Mar. 1 2011 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 899 252 which is a divisional of Ser. No. 11 204 901 filed Aug. 15 2005 and issued Mar. 16 2010 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 680 324 which is a continuation in part of Ser. No. 09 992 942 filed Nov. 5 2001 and issued Mar. 21 2006 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 016 532 which claims priority to provisional application No. 60 317 521 filed Sep. 5 2001 and provisional application No. 60 246 295 filed Nov. 6 2000. U.S. application Ser. No. 11 204 901 filed Aug. 15 2005 and issued Mar. 16 2010 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 680 324 also claims priority to provisional application No. 60 630 524 filed Nov. 22 2004 and provisional application No. 60 625 526 filed Nov. 4 2004. U.S. application Ser. No. 11 204 901 filed Aug. 15 2005 and issued Mar. 16 2010 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 680 324 is also a continuation in part of Ser. No. 10 492 243 filed on May 20 2004 and issued Jan. 13 2009 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 477 780 which is a National Phase of PCT US02 35407 filed Nov. 5 2002 which is an International Patent application and a continuation in part of Ser. No. 09 992 942 filed Nov. 5 2001 and issued Mar. 21 2006 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 016 532 which claims priority to provisional application No. 60 317 521 filed Sep. 5 2001 and provisional application No. 60 246 295 filed Nov. 6 2000. These and all other referenced patents and applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Where a definition or use of a term in a reference that is incorporated by reference is inconsistent or contrary to the definition of that term provided herein the definition of that term provided herein is deemed to be controlling.

Several years ago the present inventors pioneered the concept of using digitally captured images to identify objects within the images and then using such identifications to retrieve information from various databases. Examples include 

In such embodiments it was specifically contemplated that analysis of the images could be performed locally i.e. on the cell phone PDA or other device capturing the image distally at a server or more preferably using some combination of the two. It was also contemplated that any available database could be accessed to provide the returned information including publicly accessible databases on the Internet. It was not appreciated however that one could integrate these concepts with the searching capabilities of standard Search Engines.

In the 1990s Yahoo introduced the idea of indexing web pages accessible on Internet and providing a Search Engine that to access the index. Since that time dozens of other searching systems have been developed which use all manner of various search methods algorithms hardware and or software. All such systems and methods that accept user inputs of Key Information and then utilize such Key Information to provide the user with information of interest are referred to herein as Search Engines. The user of course can be a natural person as well as a device computing or otherwise algorithm system organization or any other entity. In searching for information a Search Engine can utilize any suitable search domain including for example 

In a typical search Key Information is provided to the Search Engine in the form of key words comprising text numbers strings or other machine readable information types. The Search Engine then searches its indices of web pages for matches and returns to the user a hyperlinked listing of Internet Uniform Resource Locators URLs as well as some brief display of context in which the key word s are used. The information of interest can sometimes be found in the hyperlinked listing but is more frequently found by linking directly to the listed web pages.

Providing Key Information to Search Engines in the form of text strings has inherent difficulties. It involves strategy in the selection of the text to be entered and even with respect to the format of the keywords for example using wildcards . Another difficulty is that small computing and or telephony devices e.g. telephones both mobile and non mobile have small and or limited keyboards thus making text entry difficult.

The present invention provides apparatus systems and methods in which a a digital photograph video MPEG AVI or other image is captured using a camera equipped cell phone PDA or other image capturing device b key words or other search criteria are automatically extracted or derived from image c the search criteria are submitted to a Search Engine to obtain information of interest and d at least a portion of the resulting information is transmitted back locally to or nearby the device that captured the image.

Some images so utilized will include symbolic content that is sufficient in and of itself to be relatively non ambiguous. Such symbolic content for example can be a telephone number or a web site address. In such instances the symbolic content search criteria can advantageously be utilized as a literal in the search criteria. In other instances significant additional processing can be needed. For example an image of an automobile will likely need to be processed to determine the make and model and that information e.g. Mercedes S500 can then be transmitted to the Search Engine to be used as key words for a search. It is also contemplated that processing of some images will result in only best guesses. Thus a side view of an automobile can not be analyzable into a particular make and model and in that case the system can provide more generic terms such as SUV or automobile.

In general the present invention provides technology and processes that can accommodate linking objects and images to information via a network such as the Internet which require no modification to the linked object. Traditional methods for linking objects to digital information including applying a barcode radio or optical transceiver or transmitter or some other means of identification to the object or modifying the image or object so as to encode detectable information in it are not required because the image or object can be identified solely by its visual appearance. The users or devices can even interact with objects by linking to them. For example a user can link to a vending machine by pointing and clicking on it. His device would be connected over the Internet to the company that owns the vending machine. The company would in turn establish a connection to the vending machine and thus the user would have a communication channel established with the vending machine and could interact with it.

The present invention contemplates any suitable decomposition algorithms. Clearly faster and more accurate algorithms are preferred over slower and less accurate algorithms. It is especially preferred that algorithms are chosen such that at least some processing can take place locally to the device that captures the image. Such processing can in many instances eliminate the need to wirelessly transmit detailed images and can eliminate reliance on a distal server that might be oversubscribed. Thus some or all of the image processing including image object detection and or decoding of symbols detected in the image can be distributed arbitrarily between the mobile client device and the server. In other words some processing can be performed in the client device and some in the server without specification of which particular processing is performed in each or all processing can be performed on one platform or the other or the platforms can be combined so that there is only one platform. The image processing can be implemented in a parallel computing manner thus facilitating scaling of the system with respect to database size and input traffic loading.

It is further contemplated that some suitable algorithms will take into account the position and orientation of an object with respect to the user at the time the image was captured which can be determined based on the appearance of the object in an image. This can be the location and or identity of people scanned by multiple cameras in a security system a passive locator system more accurate than GPS or usable in areas where GPS signals cannot be received the location of specific vehicles without requiring a transmission from the vehicle and many other uses.

Therefore it is an object of the present invention to provide a system and process for identifying digitally captured images without requiring modification to the object.

Another object is to provide communication means with operative devices without requiring a public connection therewith.

Various other objects features aspects and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description of preferred embodiments of the invention along with the accompanying drawings in which like numerals represent like components.

In a system generally comprises a portable imaging device a distal server an electronic communications network and a search engine .

In general the portable device captures an image of an object and transmits information regarding the image to the server . At least one of the device and the server derives a search term A B from at least one of the image and the transmitted information respectively. At least one of the device and the server cause the search term A B to be submitted via a network to a search engine that uses an index of web pages or other information. The search engine then uses the search term A B to produce a results set and causes at least a portion of the results set to be transmitted back to the portable device . In the above discussion it should be appreciated that information regarding the image can include the entire image one or more subsets of the image as well as a name or other information derived from the image but not contained within the image. It should also be appreciated that one could use a proxy server between his her portable device and the server. I short the present application contemplates using any complexity of circuitous communication between the mobile client and server not necessarily a direct connection.

Device can be a cell phone PDA laptop computer or any other portable device that optically captures an image. By optically captures is meant some sort of light sensitive array the output of which can be processed to comprise a visually perceptible image. Viewed from another perspective device can be any camera having telephony capability and especially having cell phone capability. With current technology device would usually have a lens or other light focusing mechanism although it is contemplated that advances in electronics can eliminate the need for any physical focusing mechanism. The term optically captures is not satisfied by a device that has not optical components and is merely capable of downloading images from the Internet or other sources.

It is certainly contemplated that the cell phone or other device providing the services discussed herein would operate software permitting it to do so. That software could be resident on the device in external memory memory card or paged in as needed.

Object referred to as a Thing of Interest in one or more of the priority applications can be any visually perceptible object regardless of dimension. Contemplated two dimensional objects include objects in which the relevant information is substantially in two dimensional format which includes advertisements and articles in magazine or other print media as well as photographs or designs on billboards street signs restaurant or other business signs user manuals paintings at a museum and so forth.

Contemplated three dimensional objects include substantially all physical objects in which the relevant information is derived from the shape of the object and or the appearance of the surface of the object. Thus an automobile is considered herein to have three dimensions of relevance where the shape or other dimensions convey information about the make and model. Similarly a window in a building can be considered to have three dimensions of relevance where the identity of the manufacturer or distributor can be gleaned from the overall physical dimensions detail and so forth. As another example a beverage container can be considered to have three dimensions information can be obtained from the shape of the container but further information can also be obtained from the label printing logos text or other such visible markings on the container obtaining information from visible markings on the container enables discrimination between different containers that have identical physical shape . Contemplated three dimensional objects include substantially all physical objects in which the relevant information is derived from changes over time. For example the speed of a bird or its flight patterns or a gesture of a person can be captured in multiple images over a period of time and can be relevant information and can be reduced to search terms referred to as Key Information in one or more of the priority documents for submission to a search engine. Of course many objects will be considered to have two three or four dimensions of relevance herein. Thus relevant information for an automobile can be provided by each of a two dimensional logo on the side of the vehicle the three dimensional shape of the vehicle and its four dimensional acceleration or handling features.

It is especially contemplated that objects can include animate and inanimate objects. Among animate objects are included faces of people and biometric information such as the fingerprint pattern on a human finger an iris of a person and so forth.

Image is contemplated to be any array of pixels. In most cases the pixels will be regularly arranged but that is not absolutely necessary. In most cases the pixels also will number greater than 19 200 160 120 such as 78 800 320 240 but they can number few than that. More preferred images have greater pixel counts including for example 256 000 640 400 more preferably at least 2 million and even more preferably at least 4 million. It is not necessary that the image be actually constructed at the portable device. Thus a statement that the portable device captures an image of an object includes situations where the device receives and derives data from light emitted or reflected from the object even if the data is never presented to a user as a visually perceptible image and even if the data is sent to a distal server without ever being collected into an image by the device.

The information transmitted to the server can comprise any relevant information regarding the contents of the image. Thus information could comprise the entire image or a portion of the image. For example where a user takes a picture of a bar code whether 2D 3D or any other configuration the device could process the image to remove color and all background except the bar code itself and then merely send the portion of the image containing the bar code as the transmitted information . In other cases it is contemplated that the device could sufficiently process the image to derive one or more keywords and then send only the keyword s as the transmitted information . All possible combinations are also contemplated. Thus a user might take a photograph of a Gucci handbag the device might derive the word Gucci from the image subtract out background except for the handbag and then transmit a the word Gucci and b the image of the handbag as the transmitted information . In such instances the process can be iterative. Thus the device might initially transmit the word Gucci as the first transmitted information receive a results set from the search engine indicating clothing accessories and then subtract out background except for the handbag and transmit the image of the handbag as the second transmitted information. As discussed above it is specifically contemplated that the device could send the server numerical digital data that is mathematically derived from the image. Examples include image features and characteristics that the server could use in the server recognition process without transmitting the original image.

As should be apparent by now the transmitted information need not be limited to image information. Sights sounds text and all sorts of other information can be included in the transmitted information some of which can be derived directly from the image and some of which can be derived indirectly from the image. In addition the device can also capture non visual information such as sounds and that information can also be transmitted. Thus it is contemplated that the device could capture the sounds of a frog capture an image of a lake or forest and send both to be used as or further analyzed into search terms.

Distal server is distal in the sense that it has no hard wired link to device . Server can be a single device as well as any number of devices coupled together as for example in a server farm. All manner of suitable servers are contemplated. Thus servers can use any reasonable hardware operate using any reasonable software communications protocols and so forth.

In terms of interaction with the device the various analytical tasks discussed above can allocated in any suitable manner between server and device . For example in the iterative operation discussed above with respect to the Gucci handbag it is contemplated that the device could analyze the image sufficiently to transmit the term Gucci as an initial search term to the search engine and the server could then undertake the tasks of subtracting out background of the image except for the handbag and transmitting the image of the handbag as a second search term.

In another example the server could determine that the original image provided insufficient information and send a message to the user through the device directing the user to take another image such as from another angle closer or with greater detail . Indeed the server could direct the user to take an image of another object entirely in order to help determine identity of the first object. Thus the user could take a first image of a payment display at a ball game provide that image to the server for identification and then instruct the user to take an image of a credit card against which the user wants to be billed for entrance into the ball game. The server could then process the payment against that credit card and provide an entry code that the user could type to pass through an electronically controlled gate.

In still another example a user could use his cell phone to capture an image of a screwdriver set at a hardware store and the cell phone could transmit the information derived from the image to Google or some other search engine to find comparison prices. The server could then instruct the user to turn over the packaging and take another image of the set this time from the back side of the packaging. In this way there is iterative interaction among the user s device the server and the search engine.

It should also be appreciated that there are embodiments in which the search engine never communicates with the portable device. For example the server might do the search query get results and provide them to the portable device or even to a television or other device besides the portable device.

The phase search engine is contemplated herein to include any system dedicated to the indexing searching and retrieval of information. The most familiar search engines such as Google Yahoo MSN and Alta Vista focus mostly or entirely on indexing web pages from the World Wide Web portion of the Internet. Other search engines such as Lexis Nexis focus on indexing proprietary collections of data which can include links to Internet Web pages. The phase search term is contemplated herein to include any keys or other information used by the search engines to access their indexing system. In the case of most web based search engines the keys are currently text. In such instances a user typically enters one or more key words where the term key word is used in an extremely broad sense to include a words that would likely be found in a dictionary b proper names number strings and other terms that are not found in any dictionary as well as c characters that are interpreted as wild cards truncations and so forth. Such search engines are already starting to experiment with use of non text keys including for example images and or sounds. All such possible keys fall within the scope of contemplated search terms.

Thus contemplated search terms include key words a portion of an image as well as a logo bar code or other symbol. It is specifically contemplated that in some instances an image will contain a literal of a search terms e.g. the name of a movie on a movie poster in some instances an image will not contain such a literal e.g. a picture of a tree or other plant where the search term is the name of the plant . In either case the device and or the server in any combination can perform one or more of the tasks of deriving the search term and submitting it to one or more search engines.

Network can be any workable electronic network including public and private access networks and combinations of the two. Preferred networks include the Internet the upcoming Internet II cell phone networks and so forth. Although not expressly shown the communication lines in are all contemplated to be one or two way communications as appropriate. Moreover it is contemplated that multiple networks will usually be involved. Thus for example communications between device and server will very likely take place over some combination of cell phone not shown and Internet networks e.g. while communications between server and search engine will very likely take place over some combination of Internet and local server farm networks.

The results set can be of any size and composition but most likely will be tailored to accommodate the device . It does very little good for example to transmit dozens of web pages to a cell phone which has insufficient display area to properly view them. Thus it is contemplated that the results set can be whittled down or otherwise processed by the server which of course is indicated generically by numeral and need not be the very same box as utilized earlier in the transmission of the transmitted information before being sent to the device . Thus the server or some other processor can process results before providing them to the device such as where the search terms are submitted to the search engine by the server rather than by the device . But the device can also access the search engine directly using search information provided by the server. Four contemplated search modes include the following 

1. The server composes a search URL consisting of search engine address and key words and sends it to the portable device . The portable device then executes the search engine query by sending the search URL to the search engine and the search engine sends one or more web pages back to the portable device.

2. The server sends keywords and optionally also a search engine address to portable device . The portable device composes a search URL sends the search query to the search engine and receives one or more web pages in response.

3. The server sends the search query to the search engine and receives a response. The server optionally processes the search response which could be in any form and provides some result to portable device. The result could for example comprise a file sent to the portable device or a web page on some server with URL of that web page sent to the portable device.

4. In any of the above modes or in direct linking mode the result might not be a search results page but instead some other type of information or action. For example a server could identify an object and thereupon send a code to another server which causes an action to occur. An example of this is clicking on a vending machine with a cell phone to buy something from the machine. Another example is clicking on a TV listing in a newspaper causing the server to change the channel of the television in front of the user.

Thus a statement that the search engine causes at least a portion of the results set to be transmitted back to the portable device should be interpreted herein to mean that at least some information relating to the results set which information can or can not be included verbatim in the results set is transmitted back to the device whether directly or indirectly by the search engine. It is particularly contemplated that a results set could include at least one hyperlinked address.

It is specifically contemplated that results sets can include the following types of information Uniform Resource Locator URL Uniform Resource Identifier URI Internet Protocol IP address telephone number radio frequency or channel television frequency or channel and physical location or address. The result s displayed to the user can be interactive. In such a case the user can take further action by interacting directly with the object by linking to a referenced web page or some combination of the two. Or as discussed above the results could cause another server computer or machine to perform some action such as dispensing a product or changing a channel.

From a method perspective methods of using a search engine to obtain information are contemplated comprising using a cell phone enabled portable device to take an image of an object running computer software that automatically derives a first search term from at least a portion the image submitting the first search term to the search engine and transmitting the information to the device. Some preferred methods further comprise using the device to take a second image of the object running the computer software to derive a second search term from at least a portion of the second object and submitting the second search term along with the first search term to the search engine. Other preferred methods include the step of submitting the first search term can advantageously comprise sending at least the portion of the image to a distal server running the software on the server and the server sending the search term to the search engine. Still other preferred methods include a distal server providing the search term s to the device with the device submitting the search term s to the search engine.

Analysis of data whether visual or otherwise to produce search terms can be accomplished in any suitable manner. Useful techniques include. for example signal analysis Fourier analysis pattern matching pattern recognition image recognition object recognition wavelet analysis component analysis etc.

Search terms can be advantageously derived from attribute s including name type size color position and location with the derivation performed by algorithm table database look up hardware device or other suitable means. For example consider an example wherein the object being imaged is a poster for the color version of a movie named Modern Times starring Charlie Chaplin. The device and or the server can identify as attributes the text Modern Times Movie Poster and Color Version and can from that determine search terms such as Modern Times Colorized Charlie Chaplin and Classic movies . The attributes and search terms in this case could be determined by a human user a machine algorithm or some combination of the two.

In another example a user takes an image of a notebook computer. An algorithm detects the notebook computer in the image and identifies it as being a Model 5 made by ZZZ Corporation. The algorithm then determines the attribute ZZZ Model 5 and the corresponding search terms online shopping ZZZ notebook and 5 .

An embodiment of particular interest comprises a search using image and or video input. The device captures one or more of single images multiple images motion imagery and or video each and all of these information types are known henceforth as imagery . Indeed the imagery can be captured by more than one electronic imaging device such as a digital camera a camera equipped mobile telephone or a security camera or multiple such devices. An object or objects are identified in the imagery via image object recognition techniques software and or hardware . The identity of the object s is used to look up in a table database a set of text keywords search terms which are then provided to a search engine. The search engine returns information addresses e.g. in the form of a web page with hyperlinks that are pertinent to the objects identified in the imagery. The user then accesses information and or computing resources based upon at least one of the information addresses.

Another contemplated embodiment comprises a search using sign language input. Imagery is captured of a person gesturing in sign language. Image motion recognition techniques are used to translate the sign language into text or other machine understandable data such as text. The machine understandable data is either sent directly to a search engine or is used to determine search terms that in turn are sent to a search engine. The search engine returns information addresses pertinent to the meaning of the sign language or portions thereof.

Still another embodiment comprises search using speech input. There human speech is captured by a sound capture and or recording device. Speech recognition processing is then used to recognize the speech and translate it into machine understandable data such as text . The machine understandable data is either sent directly to a search engine or is used to determine search terms that are in turn sent to a search engine. The search engine returns information addresses pertinent to the meaning of the human speech or portions thereof.

An especially preferred embodiment of this invention comprises a search using camera equipped portable device. There imagery is captured by a portable device with a network connection for example a cellular telephone . Image recognition processing is then used to recognize at least one object in the imagery. The recognition process can be performed in the portable device in a distant server or distributed and or otherwise shared and performed partly in each. Based on the identity of the object s text keywords corresponding to the object s are retrieved from a database. As with the image recognition it is preferred that this process occur on a distant server although it can be performed on the portable device or on a combination of the portable device and the server. The text keywords are then sent to a search engine. This is accomplished by sending the keywords to an Internet search engine web site as an HTTP transaction with the search keywords embedded in the URL that is sent to the search engine web site. It is preferred that the HTTP transaction be initiated from the portable device so that the search results are returned directly to the portable device. In this case the search keywords would generally first be made available on the portable device if they were determined on the distant server then they are first sent from the server to the portable device. The search engine results are returned to the portable device as a web page which can then be displayed in the web browser of the portable device. If the HTTP transaction was initiated by the server then the results web page is made available for viewing on the portable device by one or more various means the address of the results web page can be sent to the portable device or the entire web page can be sent to the portable device or the web page can be stored or converted into another form on the server after which the portable device is directed to the address of the stored or converted page etc. 

Preferred image analysis techniques are described in the following in which shows the overall processing flow and steps. These steps are described in further detail in the following sections.

In for image capture the user utilizes a computer mobile telephone personal digital assistant or other similar device equipped with an image sensor such as a CCD or CMOS digital camera . The user aligns the sensor of the image capture device with the object of interest. The linking process is then initiated by suitable means including the user pressing a button on the device or sensor by the software in the device automatically recognizing that an image is to be acquired by user voice command or by any other appropriate means. The device captures a digital image of the scene at which it is pointed. This image is represented as three separate 2 D matrices of pixels corresponding to the raw RGB Red Green Blue representation of the input image. For the purposes of standardizing the analytical processes in this embodiment if the device supplies an image in other than RGB format a transformation to RGB is accomplished. These analyses could be carried out in any standard color format should the need arise.

If the server is physically separate from the device then user acquired images are transmitted from the device to the Image Processor server using a conventional digital network or wireless network means. If the image has been compressed e.g. via lossy JPEG DCT in a manner that introduces compression artifacts into the reconstructed image these artifacts can be partially removed by for example applying a conventional despeckle filter to the reconstructed image prior to additional processing.

Image type determination can be accomplished with a discriminator algorithm which operates on the input image and determines whether the input image contains recognizable symbols such as barcodes matrix codes or alphanumeric characters. If such symbols are found the image is sent to the decode symbol process. Depending on the confidence level with which the discriminator algorithm finds the symbols the image also can or alternatively contain an object of interest and can therefore also or alternatively be sent to the Object Image branch of the process flow. For example if an input image contains both a barcode and an object depending on the clarity with which the barcode is detected the image can be analyzed by both the Object Image and Symbolic Image branches and that branch which has the highest success in identification will be used to identify and link from the object.

The image can then be analyzed to determine the location size and nature of the symbols in the decode symbol . The symbols are preferably analyzed according to their type and their content information is extracted. For example barcodes and alphanumeric characters will result in numerical and or text information.

For object images one can advantageously perform a decomposition in the input image decomposition step of a high resolution input image into several different types of quantifiable salient parameters. This allows for multiple independent convergent search processes of the database to occur in parallel which greatly improves image match speed and match robustness in the database matching . The best match from either the decode symbol or the image database matching or both is then determined. If a specific URL or other online address is associated with the image then an URL Lookup is performed and the Internet address is returned by the URL Return . Code examples are set forth in the priority documents as well as further detail including segmentation segment group generation bounding box generation geometric normalization wavelet decomposition color cube decomposition shape decomposition low resolution grayscale image generation grayscale comparison wavelet comparison color cube comparison and calculation of combined match score.

Preferably parallel processing is used to divide tasks between multiple CPUs central processing units and or computers. The overall algorithm may be divided in several ways such as 

Actual implementations can be some combination of the above techniques that optimizes the process on the available hardware.

Another technique employed to maximize speed is data indexing. This technique involves using a priori knowledge of where data resides to only search in those parts of the database that contain potential matches. Various forms of indexing may be used such as hash tables data compartmentalization i.e. data within certain value ranges are stored in certain locations data sorting and database table indexing. An example of such techniques is in the shape comparison algorithm if a database is to be searched for an entry with an area with a value of A the algorithm would know which database entries or data areas have this approximate value and would not need to search the entire database.

The terminal is a computing device that has an image capture device such as digital camera a video camera or any other device that an convert a physical object into a digital representation of the object. The imagery can be a single image a series of images or a continuous video stream. For simplicity of explanation this document describes the digital imagery generally in terms of a single image however the invention and this system can use all of the imagery types described above.

After the camera captures the digital imagery of the target object image preprocessing software converts the digital imagery into image data for transmission to and analysis by an identification server . Typically a network connection is provided capable of providing communications with the identification server . Image data is data extracted or converted from the original imagery of the target object and has information content appropriate for identification of the target object by the object recognition which can be software or hardware. Image data can take many forms depending on the particular embodiment of the invention. Specific examples are given in the priority documents.

The image data is sent from the terminal to the identification server . The identification server receives the image data and passes it to the object recognition .

The identification server is a set of functions that usually will exist on computing platform separate from the terminal but could exist on the same computing platform. If the identification server exists on a separate computing device such as a computer in a data center then the transmission of the image components to the identification server is accomplished via a network or combination of networks such a cellular telephone network wireless Internet Internet and wire line network. If the identification server exists on the same computing device as the terminal then the transmission consists simply of a transfer of data from one software component or process to another.

Placing the identification server on a computing platform separate from the terminal enables the use of powerful computing resources for the object recognition and database functions thus providing the power of these computing resources to the terminal via network connection. For example an embodiment that identifies objects out of a database of millions of known objects would be facilitated by the large storage memory capacity and processing power available in a data center it is very difficult to have such computing power and storage in a portable device. Whether the terminal and the identification server are on the same computing platform or separate ones is an architectural decision that depends on system response time number of database records image recognition algorithm computing power and storage available in terminal etc. and this decision must be made for each embodiment of the invention. Based on current technology in most embodiments these functions will be on separate computing platforms.

The overall function of the identification server is to determine and provide the target object information corresponding to the target object based on the image data .

The object recognition detects and decodes symbols such as barcodes or text in the input image. This is accomplished via algorithms software and or hardware components suited for this task. Such components are commercially available The HALCON software package from MVTec is an example . The object recognition also detects and recognizes images of the target object or portions thereof. This is accomplished by analyzing the image data and comparing the results to other data representing images of a plurality of known objects stored in the database and recognizing the target object if a representation of target object is stored in the database .

In some embodiments the terminal includes software such as a web browser the browser that receives an information address connects to that information address via a network or networks such as the Internet and exchanges information with another computing device at that information address. In consumer applications the terminal can be a portable cellular telephone or Personal Digital Assistant equipped with a camera and wireless Internet connection. In security and industrial applications the terminal can be a similar portable hand held device or can be fixed in location and or orientation and can have either a wireless or wire line network connection.

Other object recognition techniques also exist and include methods that store 3 dimensional models rather than 2 dimensional images of objects in a database and correlate input images with these models of the target object is performed by an object recognition technique of which many are available commercially and in the prior art. Such object recognition techniques usually consist of comparing a new input image to a plurality of known images and detecting correspondences between the new input image and one of more of the known images. The known images are views of known objects from a plurality of viewing angles and thus allow recognition of 2 dimensional and 3 dimensional objects in arbitrary orientations relative to the camera .

It is usually desirable that the database be scalable to enable identification of the target object from a very large plurality for example millions of known objects in the database . The algorithms software and computing hardware must be designed to function together to quickly perform such a search. An example software technique for performing such searching quickly is to use a metric distance comparison technique for comparing the image data to data stored in the database along with database clustering and multi resolution distance comparisons. This technique is described in Fast Exhaustive Multi Resolution Search Algorithm Based on Clustering for Efficient Image Retrieval by Song Kim and Ra 2000.

In addition to such software techniques a parallel processing computing architecture can be employed to achieve fast searching of large databases. Parallel processing is particularly important in cases where a non metric distance is used in object recognition because techniques such database clustering and multi resolution search can not be possible and thus the complete database must be searched by partitioning the database across multiple CPUs.

As described above the object recognition can also detect identifying marks on the target object . For example the target object can include an identifying number or a barcode. This information can be decoded and used to identify or help identify the target object in the database . This information also can be passed on as part of the target object information . If the information is included as part of the target object information then it can be used by the terminal or content server to identify the specific target object out of many such objects that have similar appearance and differ only in the identifying marks. This technique is useful for example in cases where the target object is an active device with a network connection such as a vending machine and the content server establishes communication with the target object . A combination with a Global Positioning System can also be used to identify like objects by their location.

The object recognition can be implemented in hardware software or a combination of both. Examples of each category and additional details are set forth in one or more of the priority documents.

In most embodiments the browser will be a web browser embedded in the terminal capable of accessing and communicating with web sites via a network or networks such as the Internet. In some embodiments however such as those that only involve displaying the identity position orientation or status of the target object the browser can be a software component or application that displays or provides the target object information to a human user or to another software component or application.

In embodiments wherein the browser is a web browser the browser connects to the content server located at the information address typically an Internet URL included in the target object information . This connection is effected by the terminal and the browser acting in concert. The content server is an information server and computing system. The connection and information exchanged between the terminal and the content server generally is accomplished via standard Internet and wireless network software protocols e.g. HTTP WAP etc. and networks although any information exchange technique can be used. The physical network connection depends on the system architecture of the particular embodiment but in most embodiments will involve a wireless network and the Internet. This physical network will most likely be the same network used to connect the terminal and the identification server .

The content server sends content information to the terminal and browser . This content information usually is pertinent to the target object and can be text audio video graphics or information in any form that is usable by the browser and terminal . The terminal and browser send in some embodiments additional information to the content server . This additional information can be information such as the identity of the user of the terminal or the location of the user of the terminal as determined from a GPS system or a radio frequency ranging system . In some embodiments such information is provided to the content server by the wireless network carrier.

The user can perform ongoing interactions with the content server . For example depending on the embodiment of the invention and the applications the user can 

In some embodiments the content server can reside within the terminal . In such embodiments the communication between the terminal and the content server does not occur via a network but rather occurs within the terminal .

In embodiments wherein the target object includes or is a device capable of communicating with other devices or computers via a network or networks such as the Internet and wherein the target object information includes adequate identification such as a sign number or barcode of the specific target object the content server connects to and exchanges information with the target object via a network or networks such as the Internet. In this type of embodiment the terminal is connected to the content server and the content server is connected to the target object . Thus the terminal and target object can communicate via the content server . This enables the user to interact with the target object despite the lack of a direct connection between the target object and the terminal .

This embodiment can be used for applications such as the following user refers to the person operating the terminal and the terminal is a cellular telephone PDA or similar device and point and click refers to the operation of the user capturing imagery of the target object and initiating the transfer of the image data to the identification server .

The user points and clicks the terminal at a compact disc CD containing recorded music or a digital video disc DVD containing recorded video. The terminal browser connects to the URL corresponding to the CD or DVD and displays a menu of options from which the user can select. From this menu the user can listen to streaming audio samples of the CD or streaming video samples of the DVD or can purchase the CD or DVD.

The user points and clicks the terminal at a print media advertisement poster or billboard advertising a movie music recording video or other entertainment. The browser connects to the URL corresponding to the advertised item and the user can listen to streaming audio samples purchase streaming video samples obtain show times or purchase the item or tickets.

The user points and clicks the terminal at a television screen to interact with television programming in real time. For example the programming could consist of a product promotion involving a reduced price during a limited time. users that point and click on this television programming during the promotion are linked to a web site at which they can purchase the product at the promotional price. Another example is a interactive television programming in which users point and click on the television screen at specific times based on the on screen content to register votes indicate actions or connect to a web site through which they perform real time interactions with the on screen program.

The user points and clicks on an object such as a consumer product an advertisement for a product a poster etc. the terminal makes a telephone call to the company selling the product and the consumer has a direct discussion with a company representative regarding the company s product or service. In this case the company telephone number is included in the target object information . If the target object information also includes the company URL then the user can interact with the company via both voice and Internet via browser simultaneously.

The user points and clicks on a vending machine target object that is equipped with a connection to a network such as the Internet and that has a unique identifying mark such as a number. The terminal connects to the content server of the company that operates the vending machine. The identification server identifies the particular vending machine by identifying and decoding the unique identifying mark. The identity of the particular machine is included in the target object information and is sent from the terminal to the content server . The content server having the identification of the particular vending machine target object initiates communication with the vending machine. The user performs a transaction with the vending machine such as purchasing a product using his terminal that communicates with the vending machine via the content server .

The user points and clicks on part of a machine such as an aircraft part. The terminal then displays information pertinent to the part such as maintenance instructions or repair history.

The user points and clicks on a magazine or newspaper article and link to streaming audio or video content further information etc.

The user points and clicks on an automobile. The location of the terminal is determined by a Global Position System receiver in the terminal by cellular network radio ranging or by another technique. The position of the terminal is sent to the content server . The content server provides the user with information regarding the automobile such as price and features and furthermore based on the position information provides the user with the location of a nearby automobile dealer that sells the car. This same technique can be used to direct users to nearby retail stores selling items appearing in magazine advertisements that users point and click on.

This embodiment determines the position and orientation of the target object relative to the Spacecraft as determined by the position orientation and size of the target object in the imagery captured by the camera by comparing the imagery with views of the target object from different orientations that are stored in the database . The relative position and orientation of the target object are output in the target object information so that the spacecraft data system can use this information in planning trajectories and maneuvers.

Thus specific embodiments and applications of using image derived information as search criteria for Internet and other search engines have been disclosed. It should be apparent however to those skilled in the art that many more modifications besides those already described are possible without departing from the inventive concepts herein. The inventive subject matter therefore is not to be restricted except in the spirit of the appended claims. Moreover in interpreting both the specification and the claims all terms should be interpreted in the broadest possible manner consistent with the context. In particular the terms comprises and comprising should be interpreted as referring to elements components or steps in a non exclusive manner indicating that the referenced elements components or steps can be present or utilized or combined with other elements components or steps that are not expressly referenced. Where the specification claims refers to at least one of something selected from the group consisting of A B C . . . and N the text should be interpreted as requiring only one element from the group not A plus N or B plus N etc.

