---

title: Managing access rights to content using social media
abstract: Provided are methods and systems related to communications between a social media service or provider (e.g., Twitter®, Facebook®) or other resource (e.g., web page) and one or more content providers. In an aspect, provided are methods comprising receiving a request for content, wherein the request comprises a user agnostic identifier, determining user information associated with the request, determining time information associated with the request, determining media content associated with the user agnostic identifier based on the time information, determining one or more access rights to the media content based on the user information, and providing access to the media content based on the one or more access rights.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633124&OS=09633124&RS=09633124
owner: ThePlatform, LLC
number: 09633124
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140716
---
Social media allow users to interact with each other in a variety of ways. For example users can greet participate in conversations share links as well as provide commentary. Some content and types of communication however may not available or capable of being linked through social media interfaces. Therefore for example users are often unable to provide links to access content or related communication that the user is referencing or commenting upon. Thus there is a need for more sophisticated methods and systems for providing content and sharing information via social media.

It is to be understood that both the following general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive as claimed. Provided are methods and systems related to communications between a social media service or provider e.g. Twitter Facebook or other resource e.g. web page and one or more content providers. For example the methods and systems provided can provide an interface element such as a button for use in a social media communication e.g. a tweet a post etc. . . . . The interface element can be associated with an identifier of one or more of a content item a user a provider and the like. In some aspects the identifier is user agnostic. The resulting interface element can permit a connection to other content via the social media communication. In an aspect the methods and systems provided can interpret such a user agnostic identifier along with other information and provide a user with one or more options for viewing content. In some instances the methods and systems can provide the content directly to a user based on the interpretation of the user agnostic identifier.

In an aspect provided are methods comprising receiving a request content wherein the request comprises a user agnostic identifier determining user information associated with the request determining time information associated with the request determining media content associated with the user agnostic identifier based on the time information determining one or more access rights to the media content based on the user information and providing access to the media content based on the one or more access rights.

In another aspect provided are methods comprising receiving user information and a user agnostic identifier based on a user interaction with an object determining a time indicative of the user interaction with the object determining content based on the user information the user agnostic identifier and the time indicative of the user interaction with the object and providing access to the content.

In further aspect provided are methods comprising requesting information relevant to content based on user information and a user agnostic identifier receiving at least one reference to content wherein the at least one reference to content is specific to a content provider and wherein the at least one reference to content is indicative of content associated with the user agnostic identifier and wherein the content associated with the user agnostic identifier is available to a user associated with the user information and providing at least one option for accessing content based on the at least one reference to content.

Additional advantages will be set forth in part in the description which follows or may be learned by practice. The advantages will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

Before the present methods and systems are disclosed and described it is to be understood that the methods and systems are not limited to specific methods specific components or to particular implementations. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

As used in the specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Ranges may be expressed herein as from about one particular value and or to about another particular value. When such a range is expressed another embodiment includes from the one particular value and or to the other particular value. Similarly when values are expressed as approximations by use of the antecedent about it will be understood that the particular value forms another embodiment. It will be further understood that the endpoints of each of the ranges are significant both in relation to the other endpoint and independently of the other endpoint.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event or circumstance may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where said event or circumstance occurs and instances where it does not.

Throughout the description and claims of this specification the word comprise and variations of the word such as comprising and comprises means including but not limited to and is not intended to exclude for example other components integers or steps. Exemplary means an example of and is not intended to convey an indication of a preferred or ideal embodiment. Such as is not used in a restrictive sense but for explanatory purposes.

Disclosed are components that can be used to perform the disclosed methods and systems. These and other components are disclosed herein and it is understood that when combinations subsets interactions groups etc. of these components are disclosed that while specific reference of each various individual and collective combinations and permutation of these may not be explicitly disclosed each is specifically contemplated and described herein for all methods and systems. This applies to all aspects of this application including but not limited to steps in disclosed methods. Thus if there are a variety of additional steps that can be performed it is understood that each of these additional steps can be performed with any specific embodiment or combination of embodiments of the disclosed methods.

The present methods and systems may be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description of preferred embodiments and the examples included therein and to the Figures and their previous and following description.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the methods and systems may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. Furthermore the methods and systems may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program instructions e.g. computer software embodied in the storage medium. More particularly the present methods and systems may take the form of web implemented computer software. Any suitable computer readable storage medium may be utilized including hard disks CD ROMs optical storage devices or magnetic storage devices.

Embodiments of the methods and systems are described below with reference to block diagrams and flowchart illustrations of methods systems apparatuses and computer program products. It will be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations respectively can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be loaded onto a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create a means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including computer readable instructions for implementing the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

In some aspects the present disclosure relates to communications between a social media service or provider e.g. Twitter Facebook or other resource e.g. web page and one or more content providers. The social media provider e.g. social media server allows for users to link to content in a variety of ways through an interface element such as a button e.g. user selectable button rendered on a graphical user interface animated button picture associated with an action or link . Any interface element can be used for example a button labeled See It For example the button can be provided with a social media post such as tweet or a Facebook post. When a user posts a message such as a tweet the user can also post a link to a landing page at an intermediary device. The social media server can recognize the link e.g. based on metadata on the landing page and provide the interface element with the message e.g. a tweet. As another example the social media server can suggest adding the interface element or automatically add the interface element based on natural language processing performed on the tweet. The interface element can be a user agnostic interface element indicative of a content item such as a television show. When a user e.g. user who posts the message or other user clicks on the interface element the interface element can be converted to an interface element specific to the user. For example the interface element can capture and provide user information and or content information to an intermediary device such as one or more intermediary servers.

After receiving the user information and or content information the one or more intermediary servers can track this information and its association with the interface element. The intermediary server can also implement a protocol used between a variety of content providers and users. For example the protocol can allow the intermediary server to retrieve or create specific uniform resource locators URLs to content relevant to the interface element. The interface element may be relevant to several different pieces of content accessible to the user from different services. Thus the intermediary server and or the content provider can provide the relevant content based on timing information associated with the button e.g. or other interface element as well as other information such as user information. For example the intermediary server can provide a link to live content if the content is currently playing or a link to recorded content. The intermediary server can also capture and report information related to various viewership rating metrics e.g. number of views in 3 days numbers of views in 7 days used for making advertising and other content and network related decisions. In one aspect content can be provided based on how the viewing of the content will affect one or more viewership rating metrics. For example if a viewership rating metric would be increased by providing a recording from 2 days ago instead of a live show then the recording can be provided.

The intermediary server can provide a variety of content options to the user and when the user clicks on the relevant URL the user can access the content directly from the user device or from another user device such as a smart phone tablet or television. The intermediary server can log that the user has accessed the content via the content provider. The protocol also allows for content providers to send information relevant to the transaction back to the intermediary server. For example when the user stops pauses tunes away clicks a link or otherwise interacts with the content then the content provider can provide information about this event to the intermediary server.

In one aspect the system can comprise a social media device e.g. and or social media network . The social media device can be configured to provide content such as social media information to a plurality of users. Social media information can comprise information shared between and indicative of user interactions with a social media network. For example social media information can comprise messages posts pictures video text relationship data a plurality of interactions between users and or the like. For example the social media device can comprise an account unit configured to manage accounts for the plurality of users. For example the account unit can comprise a database comprising user account information such as login credentials user history user preferences user identifiers and the like. For example each user can be associated with a corresponding unique user identifier. Furthermore groups of users can be associated with group identifiers.

In one aspect the social media device can comprise a content unit configured to provide social media information and or other content e.g. other audio video text and services provided to users to one or more users. For example the social media information can comprise messages posts pictures video text relationship data a plurality of interactions between users and or the like. The social media information can be displayed as one or more social media feeds. In one aspect the content unit can be configured to provide user interface information to the one or more users. For example the user interface information can comprise computer readable code representative of a variety of user interface elements such as buttons windows e.g. posts status updates text boxes e.g. for displaying and entering information and the like. In one aspect the user interface information can comprise markup language e.g. hypertext markup language scripting language e.g. javascript stylesheet language e.g. cascading style sheets and the like. In one aspect the content unit can provide content specific to a particular user e.g. or many users in other aspects . For example the content unit can select social media information and or user interface information associated with a particular user. The content unit can provide the selected social media content and or user interface information to a requesting user.

In one aspect the content unit can provide user interface information based on input received from a user. For example the user interface information can be configured to allow a user to associate a post message and or the like with a content item e.g. show episode movie program . In response to the input received from the user the content unit can update the user interface information with an interface element. As an illustration the user can provide a uniform resource locator URL associated with one or more content items. For example the URL can link to a resource such as a web page configured to facilitate access to one or more content items. The web page can be a landing page provided by the intermediary device . The landing page can provide information about the one or more content items. The landing page can allow a user to access the one or more content items. For example the landing page can be configured to allow users to login to one or more content providers. The landing page can provide a variety of content options to a user that are relevant to the content item. As a further illustration the one or more content items can be associated based on one or more common keywords e.g. descriptive terms . For example the content items can be grouped according to a genre actor actress director episodes of show content channel sports team political stance language and or the like.

In one aspect content unit can be configured to determine if a link or point such as a URL links and or points to a landing page hosted by the intermediary device . For example the content unit can retrieve any type of content such as the web page referenced by the URL. The content unit can search the web page for information indicating that the web page is a landing page for one or more content items. For example a landing page can comprise landing page identifiers such as metatags indicating that the web page is a landing page for a content item. In one aspect the landing page identifiers can indicate the title of the content item as well as other information about the content item. The content unit can be configured to retrieve the title and other information about the content item. The content unit can send updated user information to a user such as an interface element configured to link to the landing page. The interface element can provide the title images video and other information about the content item.

In another aspect the content unit can select user interface information based on social media information. For example the content unit can apply natural language processing to social media information. The content unit can associate one or more content items with the social media information based on the natural language processing. For example the content unit can determine if social media information comments on describes makes reference to or otherwise relates to a content item based on one or more words processed by the natural language processor. As a further example the social media information can comprise a symbol such as a hashtag an at sign and or the like followed by a keyword such as a title of a content item or other identifier e.g. social media handle . The social media information can comprise one or more keywords e.g. descriptive terms relevant to one or more content items such as a title program name actor name actress name director genre channel indicator social media handle identifier of a user or entity having a social media account sports team and or the like. The content unit can be configured to recognize the symbol and accompanying keyword as well as other words characters and the like related to indicative of or otherwise associated with one or more content items a content landing page and or the like. If the content unit associates one or more content items with the social media information the content unit can provide a suggestion to a user to add an interface element to the social media information. The interface element can comprise a link to a landing page configured to facilitate access to the content item and or related content. As another example the content unit can automatically select an interface element based on natural language processing of the social media information. The content unit can automatically update the user interface information with the interface element.

In one aspect the interface element can comprise a button link text image video and or the like. The interface element can reference e.g. link to a landing page as described herein. The interface element can comprise or reference text images video and or the like provided by the landing page. The interface element can reference an associated content item a group of associated content items a landing page associated with one or more content items a keyword e.g. descriptive term actor actress genre director sports team and or the like and or the like. For example the interface element can comprise an invitation notification link to and or the like to access the content item. In one aspect the interface element can comprise and or be associated with one or more identifiers. For example the interface element can comprise and or be associated with at least one user agnostic identifier. A user agnostic identifier is an identifier that does not identify any user. For example a user agnostic identifier can comprise an identifier of content such as a content item and or a group of related content. A user agnostic identifier can become associated with a user without identifying the user. For example if a user has a subscription or other rights allowing the user to access the content item from a particular content source or provider then user agnostic identifier can be associated with the user e.g. by the content provider but such association does not make the user agnostic identifier an identifier of a user.

As an illustration the user agnostic identifier can comprise one or more names titles numbers symbols characters a combination thereof and or the like. For example the user agnostic identifier can comprise and or be associated with general identifiers internal identifiers third party identifiers e.g. Rovi ID user generated identifiers and or the like. For example the user agnostic identifier can comprise and or be associated with one or more symbols e.g. hashtag associated with a sequence of characters e.g. content name title genre actor director content source social media identifier and or the like. In one aspect the user agnostic identifier can comprise more than one identifier keyword symbol character sequence and or the like. For example a first portion of the user agnostic identifier can comprise a first keyword identifier character sequence symbol and or the like. A second portion of the user agnostic identifier can comprise a second keyword identifier character sequence symbol and or the like.

In one aspect the content unit can be configured to associate the interface element with the at least one user agnostic identifier by requesting the user agnostic identifier from a local database or a remote device such as the intermediary device content device and or the like described herein. For example the social media device and or remote device can maintain a database index and or the like of associations between user agnostic identifiers and corresponding symbols keywords and or the like. The content unit can query the index database and or the like based on input e.g. keyword symbol received from the user. In one aspect the user agnostic identifier can comprise a uniform resource identifier e.g. uniform resource locator for a landing page or other content location. As another example the user agnostic identifier can comprise the keyword symbol and or other user input. For example the content unit can determine the user agnostic identifier by adding one or more numbers sequences identifiers symbols and or the like or otherwise formatting the symbols keywords and or the like provided by the user.

As another example the interface element can comprise and or be associated with at least one user specific identifier. A user specific identifier is an identifier that identifies one or more users. For example the user specific identifier can be an account identifier. In one aspect the interface element can be associated with a first user specific identifier configured to identify a social media user who posted or otherwise associated the interface element with his or her social media feed. In another aspect the interface element can be associated with a second user specific identifier. The second user specific identifier can be configured to identify a user who interacted with the interface element. For example the interface element can be configured to provide the first user specific identifier and or second user specific identifier to a remote device such as the intermediary device social media device or other device.

In one aspect a user specific identifier can identify one or more classes of users groups of users and or the like. For example a user specific identifier can identify a location such as a regional location physical address and or the like. A user specific identifier can identify a class of service such as an account tier subscription tier and or the like. A user specific identifier can identify a user transaction purchase and or the like. As another example a user specific identifier can comprise a user name account identifier user preference and or the like. A user specific identifier can comprise a network address identifying one or more user devices. For example the network address can comprise an internet protocol address media access control address and or the like. As another example a user specific identifier can comprise a session identifier configured to identify a session between one or more users and a device e.g. social media device intermediary device . As an illustration a user specific identifier can be determined from provided in and or otherwise indicated in a cookie or other user data file.

In one aspect the social media device can be communicatively coupled to one or more user devices through a network . In one aspect the network can comprise a packet switched network e.g. internet protocol based network a non packet switched network e.g. quadrature amplitude modulation based network and or the like. The network can comprise network adapters switches routers moderns and the like connected through wireless links e.g. radio frequency satellite and or physical links e.g. fiber optic cable coaxial cable Ethernet cable or a combination thereof . In one aspect the network can be configured to provide communication from telephone cellular modem and or other electronic devices to and throughout the system .

In one aspect an example user device can comprise a computing device e.g. desktop computer workstation laptop tablet device mobile device e.g. mobile phone smart device e.g. smart phone smart watch smart glasses smart accessory set top box digital streaming device television and or the like. A user device can receive content from a variety of devices. For example the user device can be configured to receive content e.g. social media information user interface information from the content unit of the social media device . As another example the user device can receive content from other devices such as the content devices and intermediary device described herein.

In one aspect the user device can comprise an interface unit configured to provide e.g. render a user interface for a user. For example the interface unit can be configured to render a variety of content e.g. content from the social media device through one or more software applications such as content browsers electronic program guides video rendering engines text overlay applications and or the like. In one aspect the user device can comprise a network unit configured to receive and transmit content across the network . For example the network unit can comprise a tuner configured to tune to a variety of content channels e.g. spectrum allocations . As a further example the tuner can be configured to select content from a content stream delivery based on modulation techniques such as quadrature amplitude modulation QAM quadrature phase shift keying QPSK and or the like. As another example the network unit can be configured to request and receive content streams based packet switching protocols such as internet protocol.

In one aspect the system can comprise an intermediary device configured to provide access to content. For example the intermediary device can be configured to provide a user access to content relevant to an interface element such as an interface element provided with the user interface information by the social media device . As an illustration an interface element can be added to asocial media element e.g. post message . The interface element can be associated with a particular content item e.g. show program movie episode . If a user interacts with the interface element then the interface element can provide a request to the intermediary device for content relevant to the content item.

In one aspect the intermediary device can comprise a landing unit . The landing unit can be configured to provide landing pages for a variety of content. The landing page can be provided as a web page user interface page or context document window and or the like. For example the landing unit can comprise a landing page for at least one e.g. each content item e.g. show episode movie program . The landing page can be configured to display information about a content item such as title show times episodes of the content item and content providers that provide access to the content item. In one aspect a landing page can comprise metatags or other identifiers configured to allow other devices such as the social media device to identify the landing page and retrieve information about the content item. For example the landing page can comprise the user agnostic identifier e.g. in a metatag .

As an illustration the social media device can receive a resource locator e.g. uniform resource locator identifying a landing page from a user. The social media device can retrieve and process the landing page. For example the social media device can identify a user agnostic identifier or other information in a field metatag and or elsewhere on the landing page. The social media device can determine to provide an interface element e.g. by inserting the interface element in a post message status or the like based on the user agnostic identifier and or other information on the landing page. In one aspect the interface element can comprise and or be associated with user agnostic identifier or other information received from the landing page.

In one aspect the intermediary device can comprise a content query unit configured to process requests for content. For example the content query can receive requests for content from a user based on an interaction with an interface element. The interface element can comprise the interface element provided with the user interface information by the social media device . The interface element can be on any user interface page web page dynamic page search results page document window and or the like. The interface element can reference e.g. link to the landing page. An interaction with the interface element can cause a user to be redirected to the landing page. The landing page can comprise or otherwise communicate with the content query unit . For example the landing page can automatically request content from the content query unit when the landing page is loading. As another example the landing page can request content from the content query unit in response to a request from a user for content on the landing page.

In one aspect the intermediary device can comprise an authentication unit configured to authenticate a user e.g. user requesting content . In another aspect the authentication unit can be configured to receive user information such as one or more user specific identifiers e.g. based on an interaction witl the interface element . In one aspect the authentication unit can be configured to authenticate a user based on the user information such as the one or more user specific identifiers. For example the authentication unit can comprise an account database. The account database can comprise a plurality of associations such as associations of user specific identifiers with user accounts. The user accounts can be specific to one or more content providers e.g. service provider and or the like . As another example the authentication unit can be configured to send the one or more user specific identifiers to a device managed by a content provider e.g. content device .

In another aspect the authentication unit can be configured to provide a user login for a user to enter user information such as user credentials e.g. account identifier password . For example the authentication unit can provide an interface to a user to login to a particular content provider. As an example the authentication unit can provide the user login on the landing page. As an illustration a user can be provided with a list e.g. on the landing page of one or more content providers. The user can select a content provider from the list. The authentication unit can provide e.g. on the landing page a user login for the content provider in response to the selection. In one aspect the cookie user data file and or the like can indicate that a user is already authenticated with the content device intermediary device and or the like.

In one aspect the intermediary device can be configured to receive user information such as the user specific identifiers or other account information or credential from a remote device such as the social media device and or content device . For example the intermediary device can receive a cookie a user data file and or the like. The authentication unit can be configured to authenticate verify and or otherwise process the cookie and or user data file. Additionally the authentication unit can be configured to provide the user information from the remote device to the content device .

In one aspect the content query unit can be configured to determine e.g. select content based on a variety of information such as user information identifiers timing information ranking availability and or the like. For example the content query unit can be configured to determine content based on the user agnostic identifier. The content query unit can be configured to receive a user agnostic identifier. For example the user agnostic identifier can be received in a request for content from a user and or a user interaction with the interface element provided by the social media device . The user agnostic identifier can be associated with and or indicative of one or more content items. For example the user agnostic identifier e.g. or copy thereof can be stored in a database e.g. local or remotely located configured to correlate the user agnostic identifier with one or more content items.

As another example the content query unit can be configured to determine content based on user information such as login credentials e.g. from the authentication unit one or more user specific identifiers received from an interface element and or other user data. For example the content query unit can request information relevant to content from a content device managed by a content provider e.g. content provider selected by a user The request for information relevant to content can comprise a request for at least one reference to content. For example the request can comprise a request for a list of references to content. A reference to content can comprise a location where the content can be accessed. The location can be specific to a content provider. For example the location can be a location within a distribution network and or access network of a specific content provider. In one aspect the reference to content can comprise computer executable code and or link s configured to open the content in an application e.g. mobile application web application and or device. As an illustration the reference to content can comprise a link to open a separate application e.g. mobile app specific to the content provider . As another illustration the reference to content can comprise a link configured to control operation of a remote device. For example the link can cause a set top box television tablet or other user device to tune to or otherwise access content from the remote device.

In one aspect the intermediary device can comprise a ranking unit configured to rank filter prioritize and or otherwise process the references to content determined by the content query unit . The ranking unit can rank filter prioritize and or otherwise process the references to content based on how a user accessing the content will affect a content viewership rating. A content viewership rating can comprise for example Nielsen ratings or other audience measurement system. As an example a viewership rating can comprise a number of users accessing content within a time period. The time period can begin at the initial release and or broadcast of content. The time period can expire after a predetermined time such as 1 day 2 days 5 days 8 days 30 days and the like. As an illustration the intermediary device can receive a list of more than one reference to content. The ranking unit can rank filter prioritize and or otherwise process the references to content on the list according to how the user accessing the referenced content will affect a viewership rating. As a further illustration an example viewership rating can comprise the number of users accessing a first content item with a first time period. A first reference to content can be a link to access the first content item before the end of the first time period. A second reference to content can comprise a link to access the first content item after the first time period. The ranking unit can rank the first reference to content before the second reference to content.

In one aspect the ranking unit can filter certain references to content. For example the ranking unit can remove references to content from a list of references to content based on the ranking of the reference. As a further example the ranking unit can remove lower ranking references e.g. references below a threshold ranking from the list of references.

In one aspect the ranking unit can be configured to rank filter prioritize and or otherwise process the references to content based on time information. For example time information can comprise a current time one or more times the content was previously provided e.g. broadcast multicast unicast and or accessed one or more times the referenced content is scheduled to be provided e.g. or accessed recorded processed and or the like.

In one aspect the ranking unit can be configured to rank filter prioritize and or otherwise process the references to content based on content information. For example content information can comprise bit rate content quality e.g. standard definition high definition 4K high definition three dimensional surround sound content language content metadata e.g. actors genre relationship to other content content source content price and or the like.

In one aspect the ranking unit can be configured to rank filter prioritize and or otherwise process the references to content based on user information. For example user information can comprise viewing history demographics social media e.g. affinity favorites likes social media history relationship information social media history of contacts or friends account information e.g. subscription tier and or the like. In one aspect the user information can be user information for more than one user. For example multiple users can access content from the same account device household building office and or the like.

In one aspect the ranking unit can be configured to prioritize weigh and or resolve conflicts between one or more rankings generated by the ranking unit For example the ranking unit can prioritize weigh and or resolve conflicts a ranking based on the user information time information content information viewership rating information and or the like.

In one aspect the intermediary device can comprise an access unit configured to provide access to content. For example the access unit can provide one or more access elements configured to allow access to content. An access element can comprise a link to access content. For example the access element can comprise a list of content options. An access element can comprise a content delivery element configured to deliver render and or otherwise provide the referenced content to a user. As an example the access unit can provide one or more options for accessing content. The access unit can be configured to provide the one or more references to content as a list of one or more content options. For example the access unit can provide the references to content as a plurality of links to access one or more content items from one or more devices. In one aspect the access unit can provide options to record content remind a user of future availability of content and or the like. In one aspect the access unit can be configured to provide an option to favorite or like content download content purchase content access to content e.g. cinema tickets streaming rights download rights DVD rights reserve content and or the like.

In one aspect the access unit can provide options to access content from one or more devices such as a set top box digital streaming device television computing station e.g. desktop computer workstation mobile device e.g. mobile phone smart device e.g. smart watch smart apparel smart glasses activity tracker transportation device e.g. dashboard display onboard display and or the like. In one aspect the access unit can provide options to access content through one or more applications on the one or more devices e.g. local or remote devices For example an application can comprise a web browser a service provider e.g. internet provider cable provider application a content publisher e.g. content channel application mobile application customized content channel and or the like.

As an illustration the access unit can provide a first option to access a first content item from a first device e.g. the device receiving the one of more content options . The access unit can provide a second option to access the first content item from a second device e.g. set top box . The access unit can provide a third option to access the first content item from a third device e.g. mobile device . The access unit can provide additional options to access different content items from different devices from different applications in different formats under different accounts for different prices at different times and or the like.

In one aspect the intermediary device can comprise a tracking unit configured to track user behavior. For example user behavior can be tracked based on at least one of a user specific identifier a user agnostic identifier an access element a notification and or the like. As an illustration the tracking unit can receive notifications of user behavior from a remote device such as a device managed by a content provider e.g. content device . In one aspect a user specific identifier and or a user agnostic identifier can be associated with a marketing campaign. The tracking unit can be configured to provide information related to the marketing campaign. For example the tracking unit can be configured to provide statistics such as the a number of users accessing the content the number of users accessing the content based on an interaction with an interface element from a social media device a time related metric e.g. average viewing time information about user interactions with the content and or the like.

In one aspect the system can comprise one or more content devices configured to provide content to users e.g. subscribers of content services or otherwise manage content and or users. The content devices can be managed by one or more content providers e.g. service providers . For example a content device can be configured to provide content through a packet switched network and or non packet switched network e.g. quadrature amplitude modulation based network . A content device can comprise a content server account information user behavior statistics and or the like. As an example a content device can comprise a converged access device such as a converged cable access platform CCAP .

In one aspect a content device can comprise a request unit configured to process requests. For example the request unit can be configured to process a request e.g. for content received from a user device e.g. received by the content device and or received by the intermediary device . The request can be provided in response to a user interacting with e.g. clicking a content option and or reference to content provided to the user by the intermediary device . As another example the request can be received from a user application e.g. mobile application set top box application content browser . In response to the request the request unit can provide the requested content to the requesting device.

In another aspect the request unit can be configured to process requests for information relevant to content. In one aspect the requests for information relevant to content can be processed based on one or more identifiers such as the user agnostic identifier and one or more user specific identifiers. For example the user agnostic identifier can identify and or be associated with content at the content device and or other content of the content provider managing the content device The request unit can be configured to identify one or more content items relevant to the content. In one aspect the request unit can be configured provide e.g. in response to a request for information references to content such as references to content items. As an illustration content can be identified as relevant to and or related to the user agnostic identifier.

As an illustration the user agnostic identifier can comprise one or more titles numbers symbols characters a combination thereof and or the like. The request unit can be configured to process e.g. parse the user agnostic identifier to identify at least a portion of the user agnostic identifier indicative of content. For example the at least a portion of the user agnostic identifier can be processed by a natural language processor and or compared to similar identifiers managed by the content device . As another example the at least a portion of the user agnostic identifier can comprise a unique identifier. The request unit can be configured to identify relevant content by searching e.g. an index a database for content e.g. content items associated with the unique identifier. For example the user agnostic identifier can comprise and or be associated with internal identifiers third party identifiers e.g. Rovi ID TMS ID user generated identifiers and or the like. For example the user agnostic identifier can comprise and or be associated with one or more symbols e.g. hashtag associated with a sequence of characters e.g. content name title genre actor director content source social media identifier and or the like.

In one aspect the request unit can be configured to identify one or more general identifiers based on the user agnostic identifier. For example the request unit can access a database or other logical data structure configured to define a plurality of relationships e.g. hierarchical relationships machine learned relationships between general identifiers. The request unit can search the database or other logical data structure for general identifiers associated with or otherwise relevant to the user agnostic identifier. As an illustration the user agnostic identifier can comprise and or be associated with a general identifier of a recurring program such as a show series newscast sportscasts. The user agnostic identifier can comprise and or be associated with a general identifier of an episode of a recurring program. The user agnostic identifier can comprise and or be associated with a general identifier of an actor actress director producer character genre sports team company organization location subject matter and or the like. The user agnostic identifier can comprise and or be associated with a general identifier of a particular content provider such as content channel content network content publisher and or the like. For example the database and or other logical data structure can comprise a plurality of relationships associating general identifiers with one or more other general identifiers. Additionally the database and or logical data structure can comprise a plurality of relationships associating general identifiers with user information user agnostic identifiers user specific identifiers and or the like.

In one aspect the request unit can be configured to identify one or more content items based on user information associated with the request. The request unit can determine whether a user associated with the request is allowed to access the identified content. For example the request unit can identify an associated user based on the one or more user specific identifiers user credentials e.g. from a login and or other user information. In one aspect the identified user can be associated with access privileges e.g. subscriptions and other rights that can allow or prevent the identified user from accessing the identified content. The request unit can identify the content that the user has rights to access. For example the request unit can be configured to identify content recordings content purchases downloaded content accessed content and or the like associated with the user information. For example the content can be located in a user device e.g. user device or remotely stored by a device e.g. content device on the network . The request unit can be configured to provide references to the identified content to the intermediary device . For example the request unit can provide the identified content as one or more e.g. a list of references to content. The references to content can be indicative of a location or procedure for accessing the identified content.

In one aspect the request unit can be configured to provide the selected content based on timing information associated with the request. For example the request unit can determine the time the request was received the time the user interacted with the interface element and or other timing information. In one aspect the timing information can define a time range for when the content is available. If the content is available during the time range then the request unit can select the content. As an illustration the request can be a request for content available at a current time. If the content is available at the current time then the request unit can identify the content as content currently available for viewing. For example the request unit can provide a reference to access a live content stream currently providing the content. In one aspect the timing information can be based on a time zone of a user a time zone of content provider and or the like.

As a further illustration the request unit can be configured to identify a content item e.g. an episode movie and or a group of content items e.g. episodes of a recurring program content items of genre or featuring a particular actor actress sports team or the like specified by the user agnostic identifier. In some scenarios the user agnostic identifier may not specify a specific content item or group of content items. In other scenarios the user agnostic identifier may specify content that is not available. The request unit can identify similar relevant content as described herein and provide references to the identified content in response to a request.

In another aspect the content device can comprise a notification unit configured to provide notifications of user behavior to a device such as the intermediary device . For example the notification unit can be configured to provide notifications of a variety of user behaviors such as user interactions with content. The content can be content accessed by the user based on a reference to content and or content option provided to the user by the intermediary device . A user interaction can comprise an interaction with a playback control associated with the content. For example a notification can be provided when a user plays stops pauses fast forwards rewinds or otherwise interacts with content. A notification can be provided by the notification unit when a user exits an application and or closes window configured to render the content to the user. A notification can be provided by the notification unit when a user tunes a user device away from content interacts with an advertisement associated with the content posts a reference to the content on a social media device and or the like.

It should be noted that one or more features of the social media device user device content device and or intermediary device can be implemented as one or more local or remote devices. For example the content unit and or account unit can be implemented by one or more local or remote devices. The notification unit and or request unit can be implemented by one or more local or remote devices. The content query unit authentication unit ranking unit access unit landing unit and or tracking unit can be implemented by one or more local or remote devices.

In one aspect the social media page can comprise social media elements . For example a social media element can comprise a status update wall post social message link image video text and or the like. The social media page can display new social media elements as social media users interact with an account page and or other media.

In one aspect the social media page can comprise a search element configured to provide search information. For example the search element can receive a search requests from a user. The search element can process the request e.g. send to a server requesting search results The search element can display search results based on the search request.

In one aspect the social media page can comprise one or more interface elements . For example the social media page can be configured to display the interface elements based on analysis of the social media element information element and or search element. For example the social media page can be configured to perform textual analysis such as natural language processing to identify one or more identifiers keywords and or the like as described herein. The social media page can identify a user agnostic identifier associated with the keyword identifier and or other content detected on the social media page. The social media page can associate e.g. automatically by user request and or by selection of a suggestion to a user a user agnostic identifier with an interface element. The interface element can provide access to content associated with the user agnostic identifier. For example the user agnostic identifier can be associated with a landing page or other interface for a content provider. As a further example the interface element can comprise a button inviting a user to click on the button to view content associated the social media element search result and or information element.

In one aspect the landing page can comprise a user element . The user element can comprise and or be associated with user information such as user name user history social media information e.g. messages contacts posts . For example the user information can be associated with the user agnostic identifier. In one aspect the user element can comprise a login element configured to allow a user to login to an account. For example the login element can allow a user to login to an account of a content provider. As a further example the user element can provide one or more options for logging in to one or more content providers associated with the user agnostic identifier. For example the content providers can comprise content indicated by and or related to the user agnostic identifier. As another example the login element can allow the user to login to an account provided by the intermediary device hosting the landing page .

In one aspect the landing page can comprise an access element configured to provide to access content at one or more content providers. For example the access element can provide one or more content options . A content option can be an option to view content access content bookmark content favorite content share content and or the like. In one aspect the content options can be specific to a content provider such as a content provider that the user has logged into through the login element or otherwise. For example the landing page can be configured to access user tracking data such as a cookie indicating login information of a user. As another example the landing page can be configured to receive user information such as one or more user specific identifiers from an interface element e.g. interface element of from a social media page search results profile page and or the like. The user specific identifiers can comprise a first user identifier indicative of a user posting and or inserting the interface element on a page. The user specific identifiers can comprise a second user identifier indicative of a user interacting with e.g. clicking on the interface element.

In one aspect a content option can comprise a resource locator configured to identifier a location of content within a content distribution and or access network of a content provider. A content option can comprise a script configured to call an application programming interface API of a content provider. For example a content option can comprise a call to control and or access a remote storage device set top box television and or the like associated with a user and or content provider. As an illustration a content option can comprise an option to tune a tuner of a set top box to a specific content channel provided by a content provider. A content option can comprise an option to record content at set top box and or digital storage device e.g. remote or local associated with user and or content provider to a specific content channel. A content option can be an option to schedule a future reminder to access content e.g. when a future episode airs .

At step a user agnostic identifier associated with the textual content can be identified. The user agnostic identifier can comprise an identifier configured to identify one or more items of the media content. For example the user agnostic identifier can identify a first item of the media content hosted by a first content provider and a second item of the media content hosted by a second content provider. In one aspect identifying a user agnostic identifier associated with the textual content can comprise determining one or more keyword matches between the textual content and a database e.g. local or remote of keywords associated with a plurality of user agnostic identifiers. The user specific identifier can be configured to identify a user originating the message.

At step one or more of the plurality of user agnostic identifiers can be suggested based on the one or more keyword matches. For example a search of an index and or database can be performed based on the keywords. The index and or database can associate the keywords with user agnostic identifiers. At step an interface element associated with the user agnostic identifier can be inserted into the message. The interface element can comprise the user interface identifier. For example the interface element can comprise a user selectable button. The button can be configured to provide the user agnostic identifier based on user interaction with the button. At step a user specific identifier can be associated with the message. For example the user specific identifier can identify a user posting a message and or a user interacting with the interface element.

At step a request to insert into the message an nterface element associated with a user agnostic identifier can be received. The user agnostic identifier can comprise an identifier configured to identify a first item of the media content hosted by a first content provider and a second item of the media content hosted by a second content. The user agnostic identifier can identify group of content associated with a show actor genre directory channel and or other keyword e.g. descriptive term . In one aspect the interface element can comprise a user selectable button.

At step the user input the interface element and the user agnostic identifier can be packaged into the message. For example the message can display the user input with the interface element. The user agnostic identifier can be a field or other attribute of the interface element. In one aspect a user specific identifier is packaged into the message with the user input the interface element and the user agnostic identifier. For example the user specific identifier and or other user information can be stored in field and or attribute e.g. which may or may not be displayed to a user of the interface element. The user specific identifier can be configured to identify a user originating the message. At step the message can be transmitted.

At step one or more user agnostic identifiers can be suggested based on the user input. The one or more user agnostic identifiers each or at least one of can comprise an identifier configured to identify one or more items of the media content. In one aspect suggesting one or more user agnostic identifiers based on the user input can comprise determining one or more keyword matches between the user input and a database e.g. local or remote of keywords associated wi a plurality of user agnostic identifiers.

At step a selection of the one or more user agnostic identifiers can be received. For example a user can select the one or more user agnostic identifiers and or a representation indicative of the one or more user agnostic identifiers. As another example the one or more user agnostic identifiers can be selected automatically based on a textual analysis such as natural language processing. At step the user input and the selected one or more user agnostic identifiers can be packaged into a message. In one aspect packaging the user input and the selected one or more user agnostic identifiers into a message can further comprise packaging an interface element into the message. In another aspect a user specific identifier can be packaged into the message with the user input and the selected one or more user agnostic identifiers. The user specific identifier can be configured to identify a user originating the message. In one aspect packaging can comprise combining as one display element e.g. window box inserting information e.g. the user agnostic identifier user specific identifier into a field attribute and or other part of an display element and or the interface element At step the message can be transmitted. For example the message can be transmitted to one or more users accessing a social media server.

At step the search results can be provided with an interface element associated with the user agnostic identifier. The interface element can be configured to provide access to a resource configured to provide options for accessing one or more items of the media content. The interface element can comprise a user selectable button. In one aspect the interface element can be configured to provide the user agnostic identifier and user information to a content provider in response to an interaction with the interface element by a user. The user information can comprise a user specific identifier associated with the user. For example the interface element can be configured to associate the user specific identifier with the user agnostic identifier in response to the interaction. In one aspect the options for accessing one or more items of media content can comprise an option to at least one of access an item of media content relevant to a user based on a time of an interaction with the interface element.

At step a user agnostic identifier can be determined based on at least one of the request and the collection of content. In one aspect determining a user agnostic identifier based on at least one of the request and the collection of content can comprise analyzing textual content in at least one of the search query and the collection of content. For example natural language processing can be performed to identify one or more keywords e.g. descriptive terms . A database index and or the like can be queried to obtain user agnostic identifiers matching the keywords. In another aspect the user agnostic identifier can comprise one or more of the identified one or more keywords.

At step the collection of content can be provided based on the request. In one aspect the collection of content can be provided with an interface element configured to provide the user agnostic identifier based on a user interaction with the interface element. The interface element can comprise a user selectable button. The interface element can be configured to provide user information with the user agnostic identifier in response to the user interaction with the interface element by a user. The user information can comprise a user specific identifier associated with the user. The interface element can be configured to associate the user specific identifier with the user agnostic identifier in response to the user interaction. The interface element can be configured to provide the user agnostic identifier to a resource that offers options based on the user agnostic identifier for accessing one or more items of media based on relevancy of the items of the media to a user context. In one aspect the interface element can comprise one or more fields and or attributes comprising the user information user agnostic identifier keywords and or the like.

At step an interface element associated with the user agnostic identifier can be provided. The interface element can provide the user agnostic identifier to a resource configured to identify content items based on user context of a user from the collection of content. The interface element can comprise a user selectable button. The interface element can be configured to provide the user agnostic identifier and user information to a content provider in response to an interaction with the interface element by a user. In one aspect the user context can comprise a time associated with an interaction with the interface element by the user. In another aspect the content items can be ranked based on relevancy to the user. In one aspect the interface element can comprise one or more fields and or attributes comprising the user information user agnostic identifier keywords and or the like.

At step an interface element can be displayed with the social media profile. The interface element can be associated with the user agnostic identifier. The interface element can comprise a user selectable button. The interface element can be associated with a first user specific identifier indicative of a user associated with the social media profile. The interface element can be configured to provide access to one or more content options associated with the usage agnostic identifier. In one aspect the interface element can comprise one or more fields and or attributes comprising the user information user agnostic identifier keywords and or the like.

At step the resource can be provided with an interface element associated with the user agnostic identifier. The interface element can comprise for example a user selectable button window link box and or the like. The interface element can be configured to provide the user agnostic identifier and user information to a content provider in response to an interaction with the interface element by a user. For example the interface element can comprise one or more fields and or attributes comprising the user information user agnostic identifier keywords and or the like. The interface element can comprise and or be associated with computer readable code configured to transmit the user information user agnostic identifier and or the like in response to an interaction e.g. click hover with the interface element. In one aspect providing the resource with the interface element can comprise inserting the interface element into the social media profile. For example a website social media profile window box and or the like can be updated by adding the interface element.

At step the web page can be provided with the script. The script can be configured to add an interface element to the web page based on textual content of the web page. For example the script can be configured to perform e.g. or request a remove device to perform natural language processing to identify one or more keywords e.g. descriptive terms . A database index and or the like can be queried by the script e.g. or the remote device to obtain a user agnostic identifier matching the keywords. In another aspect the user agnostic identifier can comprise one or more of the identified one or more keywords.

The interface element can be associated with a user agnostic identifier associated with a collection of content relevant to the textual content of the web page. The collection can comprise one or more episodes of a show content grouped by keyword e.g. genre actor actress director channel and or the like. The interface element can comprise a user selectable button window link box and or the like. The interface element can be configured to associate the user agnostic identifier with user information related to a user interacting with the interface element. The user information can comprise a user specific identifier e.g. account identifier network address . In one aspect the interface element can be configured to provide the user agnostic identifier and user information to a content provider in response to an interaction with the interface element by a user. For example the interface element can provide the user agnostic information and or user information to an intermediary server configured to locate relevant content e.g. content relevant to and or associated with the user agnostic identifier and or user information at one or more content providers. In another aspect the script can be configured to detect user information associated with a user accessing the web page. For example the script can be configured to access network address information user information in a cookie user information provided by the user account information tracked by the webpage and or server hosting the web page and or the like. The script can be configured to customize the interface element to a user based on the detected user information.

At step the message and an interface element associated with the user agnostic identifier can be provided. For example the interface element can comprise a user selectable button window link box and or the like. For example a content device receiving the message can insert e.g. automatically or by user request the interface element into the message. At step an interaction with the interface element can be received. For example the interaction can be received from the first user and or a second user receiving the message. At step a request comprising the user agnostic identifier can be generated. In one aspect the request can further comprise the first user specific identifier and or a second user specific identifier. The second user specific identifier can be configured to identify the second user receiving the message. At step the request can be transmitted. The request can be transmitted with time information indicative of a time the interaction with the interface element was received. The request can be transmitted to an intermediary device configured to provide one or more content options for accessing one or more items of the media content at one or more devices from one or more content providers.

At step it can be determined if the message comprises a user agnostic identifier. In one aspect the natural language processing can be performed on the textual content to identify the user agnostic identifier. In one aspect the user agnostic identifier can be identified based on a sequence symbol code keyword and or the like. The user agnostic identifier can comprise an identifier configured to identify the media content. For example the user agnostic identifier can comprise a keyword indicative of the content such as title actor actress director series identifier unique content identifier genre and or the like. If the message comprises a user agnostic identifier then the method can proceed to step . If the message does not comprise a user agnostic identifier the method can return to step . At step the message and an interface element associated with the user agnostic identifier can be provided. The interface element can comprise a user selectable button. In one aspect the interface element can comprise one or more fields and or attributes comprising user information the user agnostic identifier keywords and or the like.

At step an interaction with the interface element can be received. At step a request identifier can be generated based on user information such as a first user specific identifier and a second user specific identifier and or other information such as the user agnostic identifier. The request identifier can be generated based one or more fields and or attributes associated with the interface element. In one aspect the request identifier can be generated at a remote device based on a request for the request identifier. The second user specific identifier can be configured to identify a second user receiving the message. The request identifier can be transmitted with time information indicative of a time the interaction with the interface element was received. At step the request identifier can be transmitted. The request identifier can be transmitted to an intermediary device configured to provide one or more content options for accessing one or more items of the media content at one or more devices from one or more content providers.

At step user information associated with the request can be received. The user information can be determined based on the first user specific identifier second user specific identifier and or the like. In one aspect determining user information can comprise receiving the user information from a social media message user tracking data a user login and or the like. At step time information associated with the request can be determined. In one aspect time information can comprise at least one of a time the request is received and a time the request is initiated by a user. The time information can comprise a current time.

At step media content associated with the user agnostic identifier can be determined based on the time information. For example the user agnostic identifier can comprise an identifier e.g. unique identifier keyword configured to identify the media content. In one aspect determining media content associated with the user agnostic identifier based on the time information can comprise determining media content that is available at the current time. In another aspect determining media content associated with the user agnostic identifier based on the time information can comprise determining media content that is available during a time span indicated by the time information.

At step one or more access rights to the media content can be determined based on the user information. For example the one or more access rights can be determined based on a subscription tier purchase history preferences blackout information content license restrictions and or the like. At step access to the media content can be provided based on the one or more access rights. Providing access to the media content can comprise providing a link to a source of the video content. In one aspect providing access to the media content can be customized based on the user information. For example options to access the media content can be provided to a user if the user has access rights to access the media content via these options. If the user does not have rights to access the content the option can be to purchase rights to access the content from one or more content providers. At step a tracking database can be updated based on the user information and the media content. The tracking database can be configured to provide statistical information regarding media content consumption. For example an entry can be added to the database indicating that a user requested accessed or otherwise interacted with the media content. The entry can comprise the user agnostic identifier and user information such as the first user specific identifier and second user specific identifier.

At step a time indicative of the user interaction with the object can be determined. The time can be based on a time zone in which the user causing the user interaction is located. At step content can be determined based on the user information the user agnostic identifier and the time indicative of the user interaction with the object. Determining content based on the user information and the user agnostic identifier can comprise determining from a specified content provider content associated with the user agnostic identifier that is available to a user associated with the user information. As another example determining content based on the user information and the user agnostic identifier can comprise ranking content based on how a user accessing the content will affect a content viewership rating and selecting highest ranking content from the ranked content. As another example determining content can comprise determining one or more content sources associated with the user information and selecting the content from the one or more content sources based on the user agnostic identifier and the time indicative of the user interaction with the object. The one or more content sources can comprise at least one of a digital video recording device a content storage device a content provider and or the like.

At step access call be provided to the content. In one aspect providing access to the content can comprise providing an access element configured to provide access to the content. The access element can be configured to at least one of schedule a reminder to view the content at a specified time schedule a recording of the content display the content in a mobile application display the content in a web application provide an invitation to install an application for providing the content and tune a device to the content. The access element can comprise a link window e.g. viewing window button application box and or the like e.g. configured to point or direct a user to a content provider or a source of the content. For example the access element can comprise a list of resource locators links scripts configured to launch an application or open a window and or the like.

At step a content provider associated with the user agnostic identifier can be determined. In one aspect determining the content provider associated with the user agnostic identifier can comprise providing the user agnostic identifier to at least one content provider. At step access to a user login can be provided. The user login can be configured to accept user information e.g. password name from a user. At step user information can be received. For example the user information can be received based on user input to the user login. At step timing information associated with the user agnostic identifier can be determined. The content can be selected based on the timing information. The timing information can be based on a time zone in which a user associated with the user information is located. The timing information can comprise a current time time of interaction time of receiving a message notification and or request associated with the notification.

At step an access element for content of the content provider can be provided based on the user agnostic identifier and the user information. The access element can be configured to provide access to content that is associated with the user agnostic identifier. For example the content can be available to a user based on access rights associated with the user information. In one aspect the access element can be configured to at least one of schedule a reminder to view the content at a specified time schedule a recording of the content display the content in a mobile application display the content in a web application provide an invitation to install an application for providing the content and tune a device to the content. In one aspect providing the access element for content of the content provider based on the user agnostic identifier and the user information can comprise ranking content based on how a user accessing the content will affect a content viewership rating and selecting highest ranking content from the ranked content. The access element can be configured to allow a user to at least one of comment on the content review the content rank the content share the content bookmark the content and favorite the content. The access element can comprise a menu link window e.g. viewing window button application box and or the like. For example the access element can comprise a list of resource locators links scripts configured to launch an application or open a window and or the like.

At step a plurality of content options can be determined based on the user information and the user agnostic identifier. In one aspect determining the plurality of content options based on the user information and the user agnostic identifier can comprise determining from a specified content provider content associated with the user agnostic identifier that is available to a user associated with the user information. In another aspect determining the plurality of content options based on the user information and the user agnostic identifier can comprise ranking content based on how a user accessing the content will affect a content viewership rating and selecting highest ranking content from the ranked content. The plurality of content options can be further determined based on the timing information and or based on the device originating the user interaction.

At step the plurality of content options can be ranked based on relevancy to a user. For example content options that are accessible to a user based on timing information access rights and or the like can be ranked higher than other content options e.g. requiring purchase or scheduling of future access and or reminds . At step the plurality of content options can be provided. The highest ranked content option can be distinguished from remaining content options. For example the highest ranked content option can be highlighted set apart or otherwise indicated. At step a selection of at least one content option of the plurality of content options can be received. For example a user can select at least one of the plurality of content options.

At step access to the selected at least one content option can be provided. In one aspect providing access to the selected at least one content option can comprise providing an access element configured to provide access to the at least one content option. The access element can be configured to at least one of schedule a reminder to view the at least one content option at a specified time schedule a recording of the at least one content option display the at least one content option in a mobile application display the content in a web application provide an invitation to install an application for providing the content and tune a device to the at least one content option. The access element can comprise a menu link window e.g. viewing window button application box and or the like. For example the access element can comprise a list of resource locators links scripts configured to launch an application or open a window and or the like.

At step an access element configured to provide access to content from a content provider can be provided based on the user information and the user agnostic identifier. The access element can comprise a menu link window e.g. viewing window button application box and or the like. For example the access element can comprise a list of resource locators links scripts configured to launch an application or open a window and or the like.

At step a notification indicative of a user interaction with the content can be received from the content provider based on a user accessing the content. The user interaction can comprise at least one of an interaction with a playback control associated with the content sharing the content favoriting the content bookmarking the content commenting on the content reviewing the content ranking the content and an interaction ending access to the content.

At step a location of the user can be determined. The location can be determined based on user information e.g. account information provided by the user. The location can be determined based on a network address global positioning data and or the like. The content can be selected based on the location and or the user behavior can be tracked based on the location.

At step timing information can be determined. The timing information can be indicative of at least one of the user interaction and a request for content resulting in the receiving of the user information and the user agnostic identifier wherein at least one of the access element is provided based on the timing information and the notification comprises the timing information. The timing information can be based on a time zone of a user e.g. first user second user . At step user behavior can be tracked based on at least one of the user information the user agnostic identifier the access element and the notification. For example tracking user behavior can comprise generating an event history associated with the user information and the user agnostic identifier. At step the marketing campaign can be evaluated based on the tracked user behavior.

At step an access element for content can be provided based on the user information and user agnostic identifier. The access element can comprise a menu link window e.g. viewing window button application box and or the like. For example the access element can comprise a list of resource locators links scripts configured to launch an application or open a window and or the like.

At step an interaction with the content can be received. The interaction with the content can comprise at least one of an interaction with a playback control associated with the content sharing the content favoriting the content book marking the content commenting on the content reviewing the content ranking the content and an interaction ending access to the content. The interaction with the content can comprise an interaction with an advertisement provided with the content. At step a location of a user associated with the interaction can be determined. The location can be determined based on user information e.g. account information provided by the user. The location can be determined based on a network address global positioning data and or the like. The content can be selected based on the location.

At step timing information can be determined. The timing information can be indicative of at least one of the interaction and a request for content resulting in the receiving of the user information and the user agnostic identifier. The timing information can be based on a time zone of a user e.g. first user second user . The content can be selected based on the timing information and or a notification can comprise the timing information. At step the notification of the interaction can be provided. For example a content provider can provide the notification to an intermediary device tracking server an internal service and or the like. At step information indicative of the marketing campaign can be accessed. The information indicative of the marketing campaign can be based on the notification. For example information indicative the marketing campaign can comprise statistics such as number of views number of a particular type of interaction with content features of users accessing content source e.g. social media accounts of access to content and or the like.

At step location information associated with at least one of the plurality of users can be determined. The first access element can be selected based on the location information. The location can be determined based on user information e.g. account information provided by the user. The location can be determined based on a network address global positioning data and or the like.

At step timing information can be determined. The timing information can be indicative of at least one of a user interaction and a request for content. The first access element can be provided based on the timing information and or a notification can comprise the timing information. The timing information can be based on a time zone of a user e.g. first user second user .

At step a first access element can be provided to a first portion of the plurality of users to access the content from a first content provider. At step a second access element can be provided to a second portion of the plurality of users to access the content from a second content provider. The first access element and or second access element can comprise a menu link window e.g. viewing window button application box and or the like. For example the first access element and or second access element can comprise a list of resource locators links scripts configured to launch an application or open a window and or the like.

At step a plurality of notifications indicative of user interactions with the content can be received from at least one of the first content provider and second content provider. The user interactions can comprise at least one of an interaction with a playback control associated with the content sharing the content favoriting the content bookmarking the content commenting on the content reviewing the content ranking the content and an interaction ending access to the content. At least one of the plurality of notifications can be associated with at least one of the user information and the user agnostic identifier.

At step user behavior can be tracked based on the plurality of notifications. For example an entry can be added to a tracking database indicating that a user requested accessed or otherwise interacted with the media content. The entry can comprise the user agnostic identifier and user information such as a first user specific identifier indicating a user posting the interface element and a second user specific identifier indicating a user interacting with the interface element. At step the marketing campaign can be evaluated based on the plurality of notifications. For example various statistics can be determined such as profitability number of views number of a particular type of interaction with content features of users accessing content source e.g. social media accounts of access to content and or the like. At step access can be provided to information indicative of the marketing campaign. The information can be based on at least a portion of the plurality of notifications. For example information indicative of the marketing campaign can comprise statistics such as number of views number of a particular type of interaction with content features of users accessing content source social media accounts of access to content and or the like 

At step at least one reference to content can be received. The at least one reference to content can be specific to a content provider. The at least one reference can be indicative of content associated with the user agnostic identifier that is available to a user associated with the user information. In one aspect receiving at least one reference to content can comprise receiving a call to an application programming interface configured to control a user device. The at least one reference can comprise a resource locator configured to identify a location of content A resource locator can comprise a link a script configured to open an application a script configured to control a remote device control a tuner of a set top box and or the like.

At step the at least one reference to content can be filtered based on a user context. The user context can comprise at least one of a user device a user viewing history timing information associated with a user and user entitlement information. Timing information can comprise a current time of a user a time of a user interaction a time of receiving a request from a user and or the like Entitlement information can comprise user access rights such a subscription tier purchase history content restrictions e.g. blackouts location restrictions and or the like.

At step the at least one reference to content can be ranked based on how the user accessing the content will affect a viewership rating. For example the viewership rating can comprise a Neilsen rating or other audience tracking system. As another example if a user accessing the content through a reference to content would increase a viewership rating for content prioritized to over other viewership ratings then a reference to content can be ranked higher.

At step at least one option for accessing content can be provided based on the at least one reference to content. In one aspect providing the at least one option for accessing content based on the at least one reference to content can comprise providing a reference to a highest ranked content item of the ranking. The at least one option can be provided to a first device. The at least one option can comprise at least one of an option to access a content item from the first device an option to access the content item from a second device e.g. set top box mobile device an option to schedule a reminder to access the content item and an option to schedule a recording of a content item. The at least one option can comprise an option to tune a set top box to the content. In another aspect providing the at least one option for accessing content based on the at least one reference to content can comprise displaying a list of content available from the content provider.

At step at least one reference to content can be identified. The at least one reference to content can be associated with the user agnostic identifier that is available to a user associated with the user information. The at least one reference to content can comprise a call to an application programming interface configured to control a user device. The at least one reference can comprise a resource locator configured to identify a location of content. In one aspect identifying the at least one reference to content can comprise identifying content most relevant to a user based at least one of availability of content associated with the user agnostic identifier and a user context.

At step the at least one reference to content can be filtered based a user context. The user context can comprise at least one of a user device a user viewing history timing information associated with a user and user entitlement information. Timing information can comprise a current time of a user a time of a user interaction a time of receiving a request from a user and or the like. Entitlement information can comprise user access rights such a subscription tier purchase history content restrictions e.g. blackouts location restrictions and or the like.

At step the at least one reference to content can be ranked based on how the user accessing the corresponding content will affect a viewership rating. For example the viewership rating can comprise a Neilsen rating or other audience tracking system. As another example if a user accessing the content through a reference to content would increase a viewership rating for content e.g. prioritized to over other viewership ratings then a reference to content can be ranked higher.

At step at least one option for accessing content can be provided based on the at least one reference to content. In one aspect providing the at least one option for accessing content can comprise providing highest ranked references to content of the at least one reference to content. The at least one option can be provided to a first device. The at least one option can comprise at least one of an option to access a content item from the first device an option to access the content item from a second device an option to schedule a reminder to access the content and an option to schedule a recording of the content. In another aspect the at least one option for accessing content can comprise an option to tune a set top box to the content. As another example providing the at least one option for accessing content based on the at least one reference to content can comprise displaying a list of content available from the content provider.

At step availability of the content from the content provider can be determined. In one aspect determining availability of the content can comprise determining a time period of when the content is available to the user. The time period can be compared to a current time time of user interaction with an interface element and or the like.

At step the content can be ranked based on how the user accessing the content will affect a viewership rating. For example the viewership rating can comprise a Neilsen rating or other audience tracking system. As another example if a user accessing the content through a reference to content would increase a viewership rating for content e.g. prioritized to over other viewership ratings then a reference to content can be ranked higher.

At step an access element relevant to at least one content item of the content provider can be provided to the user based on the availability of the content. The at least one content item can comprise a highest ranked content item of the ranking. In one aspect the access element relevant to at least one content item is provided based a user context. The user context can comprise at least one of a user device a user viewing history timing information associated with a user and user entitlement information. The access element can be provided to a first device. The access element can be configured to provide access to at least one of the at least one content item from the first device the at least one content item from a second device schedule a reminder to access the content item and schedule a recording of a content item. The access element can comprise a resource locator configured to identify at least one location of the at least one content item. The access element can be configured to display a list of content available from the content provider. The access element can be configured to tune a set top box to the content item based on a user interaction. The access element can be configured to call an application programming interface configured to control a user device. The access element can comprise a link window e.g. viewing window button application box and or the like. For example the access element can comprise a list of resource locators links scripts configured to launch an application or open a window and or the like 

The present methods and systems can be operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that can be suitable for use with the systems and methods comprise but are not limited to personal computers server computers laptop devices and multiprocessor systems. Additional examples comprise set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that comprise any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The processing of the disclosed methods and systems can be performed by software components. The disclosed systems and methods can be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers or other devices Generally program modules comprise computer code routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The disclosed methods can also be practiced in grid based and distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Further one skilled in the art will appreciate that the systems and methods disclosed herein can be implemented via a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . The components of the computer can comprise but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the processor to the system memory . In the case of multiple processing units the system can utilize parallel computing.

The system bus represents one or more of several possible types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example such architectures can comprise an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus an Enhanced ISA EISA bus a. Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP bus and a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI a PCI Express bus a. Personal Computer Memory Card Industry Association PCMCIA Universal Serial Bus USB and the like. The bus and all buses specified in this description can also be implemented over a wired or wireless network connection and each of the subsystems including the processor a mass storage device an operating system content access software content access data a network adapter system memory an Input Output Interface a display adapter a display device and a human machine interface can be contained within one or more remote computing devices at physically separate locations connected through buses of this form in effect implementing a fully distributed system.

The computer typically comprises a variety of computer readable media. Exemplary readable media can be any available media that is accessible by the computer and comprises for example and not meant to be limiting both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. The system memory comprises computer readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM . The system memory typically contains data such as content access data and or program modules such as operating system and content access software that are immediately accessible to and or are presently operated on by the processing unit .

In another aspect the computer can also comprise other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. By way of example illustrates a mass storage device which can provide non volatile storage of computer code computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . For example and not meant to be limiting a mass storage device can be a hard disk a removable magnetic disk a removable optical disk magnetic cassettes or other magnetic storage devices flash memory cards CD ROM digital versatile disks UM or other optical storage random access memories RAM read only memories ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and the like.

Optionally any number of program modules can be stored on the mass storage device including by way of example an operating system and content access software . Each of the operating system and content access software or some combination thereof can comprise elements of the programming and the content access software . Content access data can also be stored on the mass storage device . Content access data can be stored in any of one or more databases known in the art. Examples of such databases comprise DB2 Microsoft Access Microsoft SQL Server Oracle mySQL PostgreSQL and the like. The databases can be centralized or distributed across multiple systems.

In another aspect the user can enter commands and information into the computer via an input device not shown . Examples of such input devices comprise hut are not limited to a keyboard pointing device e.g. a mouse a microphone a joystick a scanner tactile input devices such as gloves and other body coverings and the like These and other input devices can be connected to the processing unit via a human machine interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port an IEEE 1394 Port also known as a Firewire port a serial port or a universal serial bus USB .

In yet another aspect a display device can also be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a display adapter . It is contemplated that the computer can have more than one display adapter and the computer can have more than one display device . For example a display device can be a monitor an LCD Liquid Crystal Display or a projector. In addition to the display device other output peripheral devices can comprise components such as speakers not shown and a printer not shown which can be connected to the computer via Input Output Interface . Any step and or result of the methods can be output in any form to an output device. Such output can be any form of visual representation including but not limited to textual graphical animation audio tactile and the like. The display and computer can be part of one device or separate devices.

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computing devices . By way of example a remote computing device can be a personal computer portable computer smartphone a server a router a network computer a peer device or other common network node and so on. Logical connections between the computer and a remote computing device can be made via a network such as a local area network LAN and or a general wide area network WAN . Such network connections can be through a network adapter . A network adapter can be implemented in both wired and wireless environments. Such networking environments are conventional and commonplace in dwellings offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

For purposes of illustration application programs and other executable program components such as the operating system are illustrated herein as discrete blocks although it is recognized that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of the computing device and are executed by the data processor s of the computer. An implementation of content access software can be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Any of the disclosed methods can be performed by computer readable instructions embodied on computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not meant to be limiting computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media comprise volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any methods or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Exemplary computer storage media comprises but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

The methods and systems can employ Artificial Intelligence techniques such as machine learning and iterative learning. Examples of such techniques include but are not limited to expert systems case based reasoning Bayesian networks behavior based AI neural networks fuzzy systems evolutionary computation e.g. genetic algorithms swarm intelligence e.g. ant algorithms and hybrid intelligent systems e.g. Expert inference rules generated through a neural network or production rules from statistical learning .

While the methods and systems have been described in connection with preferred embodiments and specific examples it is not intended that the scope be limited to the particular embodiments set forth as the embodiments herein are intended in all respects to be illustrative rather than restrictive.

Unless otherwise expressly stated it is in no way intended that any method set forth herein be construed as requiring that its steps be performed in a specific order. Accordingly where a method claim does not actually recite an order to be followed by its steps or it is not otherwise specifically stated in the claims or descriptions that the steps are to be limited to a specific order it is no way intended that an order be inferred in any respect. This holds for any possible non express basis for interpretation including matters of logic with respect to arrangement of steps or operational flow plain meaning derived from grammatical organization or punctuation the number or type of embodiments described in the specification.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made without departing from the scope or spirit. Other embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

