---

title: Garment tags for intelligent laundering alerts
abstract: Aspects of the present disclosure involve an apparatus, systems, and methods for providing intelligent laundering alerts. Example embodiments involve an intelligent garment tag that may be affixed to garments, and may store and provide information about the garment to which it is affixed. The information stored thereon describes various aspects of the garment including color, fabric, and laundering information. The intelligent garment tags further include an alert component for providing laundering alerts (e.g., a flashing or colored light, a warning noise, or a vibration) based on, for example, garment color compatibility or laundering device (e.g., washing machine or clothes dryer) compatibility.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09594996&OS=09594996&RS=09594996
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09594996
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141220
---
The present application relates to data processing. In particular example embodiments relate to garment tags for providing intelligent laundering alerts.

Most clothing and other frequently laundered articles include labels with printed information describing a manner in which the article should be laundered. These laundering instructions are typically based on a type or color of the fabric. As an example clothing labels include information such as wash with like colors do not iron or dry clean only. Failure to follow the provided laundering instructions may result in the item being damaged or destroyed. This type of laundry warning is often conspicuously located on labels that are now relatively ubiquitous yet despite the potential unwanted effects of noncompliance because of the laborious effort involved in checking each label in a load of laundry these warnings regularly go unheeded. Further the printed information on the labels often fades over time making compliance with laundering instructions even more difficult.

Reference will now be made in detail to specific example embodiments for carrying out the inventive subject matter. Examples of these specific embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It will be understood that these examples are not intended to limit the scope of the claims to the illustrated embodiments. On the contrary they are intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the scope of the disclosure. In the following description specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter. Embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details.

Aspects of the present disclosure involve an apparatus systems and methods for providing intelligent laundering alerts. For the purpose of the present disclosure the term launder is used in various tenses to refer to a process of making garments e.g. clothes or household linens e.g. sheets and towels ready for use including the steps of sorting washing drying folding hanging ironing and steaming. Further as used herein the term launderer refers to a person performing or engaged in the process of laundering whether through utilization of one or more laundering devices or by hand. The term laundering device refers to any device or piece of equipment used in the process of laundering. Laundering devices may for example include washing machines also referred to as a laundry machine a clothes washer or simply a washer clothes dryers also referred to as a tumble dryer a drying machine or simply a dryer clothes iron also referred to as a flatiron or simply an iron a steamer or a dry cleaning machine.

Example embodiments involve an intelligent garment tag that may be affixed to garments and may store and provide information about a garment to which it is affixed. The information stored thereon describes various aspects of the garment including color fabric and laundering information. The intelligent garment tags further include an alert component for providing laundering alerts e.g. a flashing or colored light a warning noise or a vibration to assist launderers in the laundering process. The laundering alerts may for example assist launderers in sorting garments by color by either providing an alert that signals that garments of a similar color have been or should be grouped together or by providing an alert that signals that a certain garment should not be included in a particular group of garments because it is not of the same or similar color. In another example the laundering alerts may help to prevent launderers from using a laundering device that may damage or destroy clothing by providing an alert when the garment is placed near the laundering device. Consistent with some embodiments the type of alert provided by the intelligent garment tags may be dependent upon a type of alert condition triggering the alert. For example the intelligent garment tag may vibrate if items are of incompatible color but flash a colored light if the garment is incompatible with a laundering device.

The intelligent garment tag stores information about the garment such as color fabric and laundering information. The intelligent garment tag may share the information about the garment with other instances of the intelligent garment tag or with various other devices e.g. a controller . Consistent with some embodiments the intelligent garment tag may be implemented using a radio frequency identification RFID device to exchange such information using radio frequency RF signals.

The intelligent garment tag is also configured to provide various laundering alerts that may assist individuals in laundering the garment . These laundering alerts may for example assist launderers with sorting clothes prior to washing. For example the intelligent garment tag may provide an alert to notify a launderer that the garment has been sorted into a pile of clothes that are not color compatible e.g. dark colored clothing that may bleed onto the garment which in this scenario is light colored . The laundering alerts may further assist launderers in avoiding laundering practices that may harm damage or destroy garments. For example assuming the garment is made of wool the intelligent garment tag may provide an alert to notify the launderer that the garment is not to be dried in a clothes dryer.

The intelligent garment tag is illustrated in as including a memory a transmitter a receiver and an alert component all configured to communicate with each other e.g. via a bus shared memory a switch or application programming interfaces APIs . It will be appreciated that one or more these various components of the intelligent garment tag may be combined into a single component. As an example the memory transmitter and receiver may collectively form what skilled artisans would recognize as an RFID tag. As another example the transmitter and receiver may be combined e.g. to share common circuitry or a single housing to form a transceiver.

Further in some embodiments one or more components may be omitted and additional components may also be included. For instance in the example embodiment provided by the intelligent garment tag is also illustrated as including a power source e.g. a battery capable of powering each of the various other functional components of the intelligent garment tag . However in some other embodiments the power source may be omitted and the intelligent garment tag may be powered by electromagnetic induction from magnetic fields produced by other devices in communication with the intelligent garment tag .

The memory may be a non volatile machine readable memory unit e.g. read only memory or flash memory on which is stored information about a garment e.g. the garment to which the intelligent garment tag is affixed . In particular the memory stores one or more garment attributes that collectively comprise garment attribute data of the garment . The garment attributes describe aspects of the garment . The garment attributes may for example include a color attribute describing the color of the garment a fabric attribute describing a fabric the garment is made of e.g. cotton wool or silk and laundering specific attributes related to a manner in which the garment is to be laundered including the use of specific laundering devices. The color attribute may describe the color of the garment as a specific color e.g. red or white or more generally as a shade of color e.g. dark or light .

The laundering specific attributes may include but are not limited to the following a washing machine attribute describing the garment s e.g. garment compatibility with a washing machine a bleaching attribute describing the garment s compatibility with bleach a clothes dryer attribute describing the garment s compatibility with a clothes dryer an ironing attribute describing the garment s compatibility with an iron and a dry cleaning attribute specifying whether the garment is to be dry cleaned. Each of the laundering specific attributes may specify whether the garment is compatible with a particular laundering device and under what settings the laundering device is to be used with the garment . As an example a washing attribute may specify that the garment may be washed in a washing machine at a temperature below a certain threshold. As another example the dryer attribute may specify that the garment is not to be dried in a clothes dryer or that the garment may be dried but only at a certain temperature.

The transmitter is configured to transmit the garment attribute data stored in the memory to another instance of the intelligent garment tag or to another device capable of reading such information e.g. an RFID reader . The transmitter may transmit the garment attribute data to another intelligent garment tag or another device upon receiving an interrogatory signal or request therefrom. The transmitter may comprise an antenna capable of wirelessly transmitting the garment attribute data in one or many various frequencies and protocols. In some embodiments the transmitter comprises an antenna capable of transmitting a modulated radio frequency RF signal. In other embodiments the transmitter comprises an antenna capable of transmitting the garment attribute data using a low energy data transmission protocol such as Bluetooth Low Energy BLE .

The receiver comprises an antenna configured to obtain data from other intelligent garment tags and from other devices. As an example the receiver may work in conjunction with the transmitter to transmit a request or interrogatory signal e.g. an encoded radio signal to a different instance of the intelligent garment tag and in response the receiver is provided with garment attribute data of the garment to which the different instance of the intelligent garment tag is affixed. As another example the receiver may receive control data from a controller that causes the intelligent garment tag to provide an alert. Further details of such a controller are discussed below in reference to .

In some embodiments the data received by the receiver is provided as a modulated RF signals. In some embodiments the data received by the receiver is transmitted using a low energy data transmission protocol such as BLE.

The alert component is configured to detect alert conditions and provide laundering alerts in response thereto. To this end the alert component may include a set of logic e.g. a set of machine readable instructions for detecting an alert condition. An alert condition is a circumstance or set of circumstances giving rise to a laundering alert. Alert conditions may for example include garment color compatibility e.g. the garment is near other similarly colored garments garment color incompatibility e.g. the garment is near dissimilarly colored garments or laundering device incompatibility e.g. the garment is near or being used with a laundering device that may harm or damage the garment .

The laundering alerts provided by the alert component in response to an alert condition may be one of several types of human detectable sensory alerts including visual or luminescent alerts e.g. flashing lights an auditory alert e.g. a beep or other sound or a haptic alert e.g. a vibration . Accordingly the alert component may comprise one or more of the following to provide human detectable sensory alerts a light emitting component e.g. a light emitting diode LED or light bulb an electroacoustic transducer e.g. a speaker or a haptic actuator.

As shown the intelligent laundering environment includes a controller in communication with the intelligent garment tag affixed to the garment . The controller comprises a reader a transmitter and a detector module . The reader is responsible for obtaining information e.g. garment attribute data from the intelligent garment tag . Accordingly the reader may comprise an antenna or integrated circuit capable of wirelessly retrieving information e.g. garment attribute data from the intelligent garment tag . In some embodiments the intelligent garment tag may be implemented as an RFID device or tag and accordingly the reader may be implemented as an RFID reader.

The transmitter is responsible for providing control data to the intelligent garment tag . Accordingly the transmitter may comprise an antenna capable of wirelessly transmitting the control data to the intelligent garment tag . The control data once received by the intelligent garment tag causes the intelligent garment tag to provide one or more laundering alerts.

The detector module may be a hardware implemented module or a set of instructions stored on a computer readable medium and the corresponding hardware e.g. memory and processor for executing the set of logic that is operable to detect an alert condition occurring within the intelligent laundering environment . Upon detecting the alert condition the detector module may work in conjunction with the transmitter to provide control data to the intelligent garment tag that causes the intelligent garment tag to provide a laundering alert.

Although the controller is illustrated to be in communication with a single instance of the intelligent garment tag it shall be appreciated that the controller may be in communication with multiple instances of the intelligent garment tag that correspond to other garments. In this manner the controller may serve as a central hub for controlling and exchanging data with a plurality of intelligent garment tags . However it shall be appreciated that in other embodiments the controller may be omitted and multiple instances of the intelligent garment tag may communicate and exchange data without the need for the controller . Further while the controller is illustrated in to form a stand alone component it shall be appreciated that in other embodiments the controller may be implemented by a computer or be embedded in a laundering device e.g. washing machine or clothes dryer to provide additional functionality thereto. Moreover in some embodiments the controller may be embedded in an instance of the intelligent garment tag .

At operation the receiver or the reader accesses garment attribute data of a garment e.g. the garment from a memory e.g. memory of an intelligent garment tag corresponding to the garment. The garment attribute data describes various characteristics of the garment including for example a color a fabric type and laundering information e.g. information describing various manners in which the garment should be laundered . Consistent with some embodiments the operation may be triggered by a determination that two or more garment tags are proximate e.g. within a predefined distance of one another . Further the receiver or the reader may obtain the garment attribute data by transmitting a request or interrogatory signal to the proximate garment tags and receiving a data packet from the garment tags provided in response to the request wherein the data packet comprises the garment attribute data.

At operation the alert component or the detector module detects an alert condition based on the garment attribute data. The alert condition may for example be based on garment color compatibility or on laundering device compatibility. In some instances the detecting of an alert condition may be based on a comparison of garment attribute data obtained from multiple garment tags. As an example the alert component of a first intelligent garment tag corresponding to a dark colored garment may detect that the garment has been placed in a sort pile or is otherwise proximate e.g. within a predefined distance to light colored clothing based on garment attribute information obtained from intelligent garment tags of the light colored clothing. In some instances the alert component or the detector module may cause multiple garment tags to provide an identical alert e.g. in situations in which a set of similarly colored garments are grouped together . Further examples of the operation are discussed below in reference to .

At operation the alert component or the controller causes a human detectable sensory alert to be provided by one or more intelligent garment tags in response to detecting the alert condition. In instances in which the operation is carried out by the intelligent garment tag the alert component may simply provide the human detectable sensory alert via an embedded light emitting component e.g. LED electroacoustic transducer e.g. a speaker or haptic actuator. In instances in which the operation is carried out by the controller the controller may transmit control data via the transmitter to an intelligent garment tag that causes the intelligent garment tag to provide the human detectable sensory alert upon receipt thereof.

At operation the alert component or detector module determines that a first garment and a second garment are proximate e.g. within a predefined distance of one another . The determination of the proximity of the garments may be based on the relative strength of the signal provided by respective transmitters of intelligent garment tags affixed to each of the first and second garments.

At operation the alert component or the detector module accesses garment attribute data for the first and second garments. At operation the alert component or the detector module determines that the first and second garments are color compatible based on the garment attribute data of the first and second garments. In other words the alert component or the detector module determines that the first and second garments are of like color. In this way one or more of the intelligent garment tags may be used to assist launderers in sorting laundry such that similar colors are grouped and washed together.

The garment tag determines that the garment is proximate to the plurality of additional light colored garments upon detecting the garment being placed at the distance from the plurality of additional light colored garments e.g. based on the strength of the signal provided by the garment tags . Upon determining that the garment is proximate to plurality of additional light colored garments the receiver of the garment tag obtains garment attribute data of each of the plurality of additional light colored garments stored in a respective memory of the garment tags . For example the receiver of the garment tag may receive garment attribute data of each of the plurality of additional light colored garments from a respective transmitter of the garment tags upon submitting a request therefor to the garment tags .

The garment tag then compares the garment attribute data of the light colored garment e.g. stored in the memory of the garment tag with the garment attribute data of the plurality of additional light colored garments to determine the color compatibility of the garments. Since the light colored garment and the plurality of additional light colored garments are all light colored the garment tag determines that the garments are color compatible. In response to this determination the garment tag provides an alert and causes the garment tags to provide an identical alert . Depending on the embodiment the alert may be an auditory luminescent or haptic alert. As an example the alert provided by the garment tags and may be a flashing light of the same color pattern or frequency. Because the garment tags and each provide the same alert e.g. a luminescent alert of a particular color a launderer is notified that the garments are of similar color e.g. light colored and thusly should be sorted together for the purpose of laundering.

At operation the alert component or detector module determines that a first garment and a second garment are proximate e.g. within a predefined distance of one another . The determination of the proximity of the garments may be based on the relative strength of the signal provided by respective transmitters of intelligent garment tags affixed to each of the first and second garments.

At operation the alert component or the detector module accesses garment attribute data for the first and second garments. At operation the alert component or the detector module determines the first and second garments are color incompatible based on the garment attribute data of the first and second garments. In other words the first and second garments are not of like color or type of color and may run the risk of bleeding colors onto each other. In this way use of the intelligent garment tags may help avoid situations in which the color of one garment discolors or tarnishes the color of another garment during laundering.

Upon determining that the light colored garment is proximate to plurality of dark colored garments e.g. based on the light colored garment being placed at the distance from the plurality of dark colored garments the receiver of the garment tag obtains garment attribute data of each of the plurality of dark colored garments stored in a respective memory of the garment tags . The garment tag then compares the garment attribute data of the light colored garment e.g. stored in the memory of the garment tag with the garment attribute data of the plurality of dark colored garments to determine the color compatibility of the garments. Since the light colored garment and the plurality of dark colored garments are not of the same color the garment tag determines that the garments are color incompatible. In response to this determination the garment tag provides an alert e.g. auditory luminescent or haptic alert . Because only the garment tag of the light colored garment provides the alert a launderer is warned that the light colored garment is not of similar color to the plurality of dark colored garments and thusly should be separated from the plurality of dark colored garments for the purpose of laundering so as to avoid having the plurality of dark colored garments distort tarnish or otherwise discolor the light colored garment .

At operation the alert component or detector module determines that a garment is proximate to a laundering device. The determination of the proximity may for example be based on the relative strength of the signal provided by the transmitter of an intelligent garment tag affixed to the garments. As an illustrative example is a context diagram illustrating an alert being provided by a garment tag based on laundering device compatibility according to an example embodiment. In particular illustrates a garment having a garment tag which is an instance of the intelligent garment tag being placed at a distance from a laundering device . Upon detecting the garment being placed at the distance the alert component of the garment tag determines that the garment is proximate to the laundering device .

Returning to at operation the alert component or detector module accesses the garment attribute data of the garment from the memory of the garment tag . At operation the alert component or the detector module determines the garment is incompatible with the laundering device . As an example the garment attribute data of the garment may indicate that the garment cannot be dried in a clothes dryer and in instances in which the laundering device corresponds to a clothes dryer the alert component or the detector module determines the garment is incompatible with the laundering device . As another example the garment attribute data of the garment may indicate that the garment cannot be ironed and in instances in which the laundering device corresponds to an iron the alert component or the detector module determines the garment is incompatible with the laundering device .

As illustrated in in response to the determination that the garment is not compatible with the laundering device the garment tag provides an alert e.g. auditory luminescent or haptic alert . In this way use of the intelligent garment tags may help launderers avoid using laundering devices with certain garments that may cause damage thereto.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules . In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware or software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product for example a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus for example a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a standalone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network .

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA or an ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures merit consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or in a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes one or more input output I O devices a location component a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device . The I O devices may for example include a keyboard a mouse a keypad a multi touch surface e.g. a touchscreen or track pad a microphone a camera and the like.

The location component may be used for determining a location of the computer system . In some embodiments the location component may correspond to a GPS transceiver that may make use of the network interface device to communicate GPS signals with a GPS satellite. The location component may also be configured to determine a location of the computer system by using an Internet Protocol IP address lookup or by triangulating a position based on nearby mobile communications towers. The location component may be further configured to store a user defined location in the main memory or the static memory . In some embodiments a mobile location enabled application may work in conjunction with the location component and the network interface device to transmit the location of the computer system to an application server or third party server for the purpose of identifying the location of a user operating the computer system .

In some embodiments the network interface device may correspond to a transceiver and antenna. The transceiver may be configured to both transmit and receive cellular network signals wireless data signals or other types of signals via the antenna depending on the nature of the computer system .

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory the static memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media .

Consistent with some embodiments the instructions may relate to the operations of an operating system OS . Depending on the particular type of the computer system the OS may for example be the iOS operating system the Android operating system a BlackBerry operating system the Microsoft Windows Phone operating system Symbian OS or webOS . Further the instructions may relate to operations performed by applications commonly known as apps consistent with some embodiments. One example of such an application is a mobile browser application that displays content such as a web page or a user interface using a browser.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more data structures or instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions e.g. the instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

Furthermore the tangible machine readable medium is non transitory in that it does not embody a propagating signal. However labeling the tangible machine readable medium non transitory should not be construed to mean that the medium is incapable of movement the medium should be considered as being transportable from one real world location to another. Additionally since the machine readable medium is tangible the medium may be considered to be a machine readable device.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying the instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although the embodiments of the present inventive subject matter have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated references should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

