---

title: Confidential message exchange using benign, context-aware cover message generation
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed permitting a sender to send a secret and secure message to a recipient. An application on a sender device interfaces with known message generating tools to permit a user to generate a message. The local application encrypts the message (and optional attachments) based on public/private key pairing negotiated with the server given the recipient device id. The sender device transmits the cipher text to the server. The server generates a benign, text-based, context-appropriate message and delivers same to a recipient device by way of a known messaging service. The benign message provides a secret clue to the recipient that an encrypted message is available. Recipient may then access and decrypt the encrypted message, such as from the server in response to a successful challenge (e.g., password request).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09590949&OS=09590949&RS=09590949
owner: PRIVATE GIANT
number: 09590949
owner_city: Orlando
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140618
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Non provisional application Ser. No. 13 488 391 entitled CONFIDENTIAL MESSAGE EXCHANGE USING BENIGN CONTEXT AWARE COVER MESSAGE GENERATION by inventors Shaun Murphy Charles Murphy and Richard Johnson filed 4 Jun. 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 655 434 entitled COMMUNICATION SYSTEM USING AUTOMATED COVER MESSAGE GENERATION by inventors Shaun Murphy Charles Murphy and Richard Johnson filed 4 Jun. 2012 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present disclosure is related to secure electronic communication between two or more stations and more specifically to a method and system for transmitting receiving a secure communication together with a generated benign context aware cover message.

Electronic mail email short message service SMS or text micro web blogging e.g. tweets and so forth collectively electronic communication are now common and perhaps indispensable methods of communication. These tools are used for both personal communication and business communication. It is commonly believed that the content of such communications are relatively secure and private. However in many circumstances an expectation of security and privacy is not well founded. Common channels for such communications are relatively easy to intercept. Service providers often provide archiving of messages that may be accessed easily or with varying degrees of effort and authority. Communications are often retained at least temporarily on a user s hardware device such as a cellular telephone laptop computer tablet computer and so on. Therefore a misplaced or stolen device may give others access to communications retained thereon.

Many techniques exist for improving the level of security and privacy in electronic communication. One basic method is to provide control over the access to email accounts text accounts and so on such as through use of passwords. That is a password is required to enter an account and once within the account sending and receiving communications are enabled. However password protected accounts provide only a superficial level of security for electronic communications via such accounts. Passwords are generally fairly easy to break. They may be lost or forgotten and so are often written down leading to their discovery. The communications are readily accessible and archived at the service provided level i.e. behind the user level password protection . A computer or cell phone may be left with the mail or text application open and running permitting access to communications. Communications may be intercepted in transit thereby obviating the need to access the sending or receiving account. And in extreme cases a user may be forced to provide a password under duress.

In another approach the sender encrypts a message using a key. The receiver has a corresponding key which is used to decrypt the message when received. There are many variations of this encryption decryption scheme such as private keys public key exchange and so on. Problems with the encryption decryption approach include the need for processing resources to perform the encryption decryption on the sending and receiving devices and the risk of loss of security of the key or the device that performs the encryption decryption. Furthermore encryption usually converts a human readable message into a jumble of numbers and letters that is not readable other than after decoding. However the jumble of letters and numbers then appears to be just what it is an encrypted message. An unauthorized user can therefore quickly identify the message as being encrypted and hence a target for efforts at decryption coerced or otherwise.

Another technique for lending security to electronic communication is to permit communication only between pre authorized devices. In certain versions of such schemes a message contains code that prevents it from being delivered to opened by or read on a machine other than one identified in that code. In other versions limiting access to a network carrying the electronic communications only to approved devices ensures security. There are many other access limiting schemes for enabling secure communication. However problems with these approaches in general include the potential inability or difficulty to include new users in a communication the need to expose a user s device id when sending or receiving a message and since the message may in fact be encoded until the authenticity of the receiving device is confirmed the presence of an encoded message may be apparent again identifying it as a target for decryption efforts .

Legal efforts to provide at least a sense of security in electronic communication also exist. For example it is a violation of federal law to intercept an email message without proper authority. It is also a violation of federal law for a third party to access the content of another s email communication during the process of storing or transmitting the communication. Many other laws seek to discourage and redress improper accessing of another s electronic communication. However there are many who will not be dissuaded by such laws. Often by the time the law is enforced the damage from publication of the secret message is done. And with proper legal authority such as with subpoena or other form of approval certain agencies may nonetheless intercept and access electronic communication.

Accordingly the present disclosure is directed to systems and methods for providing secure electronic communications from one party to another that is both secure in the sense of encryption and secret in the sense that third parties may not be aware that a secure message has even been received. The aforementioned problems associated with purely encrypted messages limiting system access legal controls and so on are addressed. Secure and convenient electronic messaging systems and methods are enabled.

According to one aspect of the disclosure a system comprises a sender device such as a computer smart phone tablet and so on a central server and a recipient device. A local application runs on the sender device that interfaces with known message generating tools such as an SMS texting application a word processing application an email application a micro blog application and so on to permit a user to generate a message to be securely transmitted. The local application encrypts the message and optional attachment generating cipher text based on public private key pairing negotiated with the server given the recipient device id. The sender device transmits the cipher text to the server. The server generates a benign text based context appropriate message. The benign message as used herein is specifically associated with the encrypted message. The benign message may be read at the recipient device. The benign message provides a subtle secret clue to the recipient that an encrypted message is available. One of a variety of methods may be used for the recipient to access the encrypted message such as initiating a local application that retrieves the message and in response to a successful challenge e.g. password request permits access to the encrypted message.

According to another aspect of the disclosure the system also permits a user to encrypt supplemental documents for attachment to or for transmitting with an encrypted message. Examples of such supplemental documents include a video file an audio file a word processing document a spreadsheet computer readable code for implementing an application and so on. The supplemental documents may be attached to the encrypted message may be sent as a separate payload or may be retained on the server so that the user can retrieve them if authenticated when convenient.

According to another aspect of the disclosure the sender may indicate a lifespan for the message. The lifespan may be measured in a variety of ways such as elapsed time an absolute date a number of views a number of attempted decryptions successful or unsuccessful etc. After passing of the lifespan the message may be deleted from the server or from the recipient machine through code it carries may be hashed so as to be unreadable decryption keys may be irreversibly destroyed and so on.

According to yet another aspect of the present disclosure each user has at least two keys created as part of the account creation The primary key pair for passing a secret message and exchanging with trusted contacts and a compelled to produce safe key pair used when someone forces a user to give up a password. If a user is forced to give up a key the user can provide the safe key that will provide access only to an otherwise benign or false message or set of messages. In the case of the safe key only the central server has access to this public key. In addition to the primary key pair a plurality of key pairs may be generated for a variety of services i.e. business email personal email microblogging or for specific parties.

According to still another aspect of the present disclosure one or more of a variety of seeds may be used to generate the benign message. For example the city in which the recipient resides may be used to offer a message about current weather such as Sorry to hear about the cold weather in New York this week about sports such as Tough loss for the Rangers last night about local news such as Let me know if I can help with a contribution to the school that was vandalized and so on. The seed may be one or more of the following a physical location of the recipient a recent communication from or to the recipient or data from a personal profile of the recipient such as personal interests travel family status and so on. The server may also pull data for content of the benign message from many other geographically and or temporally disparate sources prior similar messages and other sources so as to provide what otherwise appears as a contextually appropriate but benign natural language message. Multiple language support may also be provided. Any personal information obtained and used in such a system may be subject to appropriate and prudent permissions and security. The benign message may also be password protected such as using the safe key for an appearance of security to be consistent with the system in which the messaging takes place and so on.

Accordingly systems and corresponding methods are disclosed according to which certain embodiments comprise a message device comprising a recipient address key table and a recipient address context data table a sending device communicatively coupled to said message device said sending device comprising a a message application configured to i enable selection of a message ii enable specifying a recipient address for said message and iii retrieve from said recipient address key table an encryption key corresponding to said recipient address b an encryption engine configured to encrypt said message using said encryption key associated with said recipient address and c an interface to deliver said encrypted message associated with said recipient address to said message device said message device configured to a use said recipient address specified by said messaging application and context data from said recipient address context data table associated with said recipient address to generate a benign contextually appropriate message b post said encrypted message to a messaging portion of said message device and c initiate delivery of said benign contextually appropriate message to said recipient address as an indicator of the availability of said encrypted message. Other embodiments and variations thereof are also disclosed herein.

The above is a summary of a number of the unique aspects features and advantages of the present disclosure. However this summary is not exhaustive. Thus these and other aspects features and advantages of the present disclosure will become more apparent from the following detailed description and the appended drawings when considered in light of the claims provided herein.

We initially point out that description of well known processes components equipment and the like may merely be summarized or are omitted so as not to unnecessarily obscure the details of the present disclosure. Thus where details are otherwise well known we leave it to the application of the present disclosure to suggest or dictate choices relating to those details.

With reference initially to a distributed network environment is shown comprising hardware and associated software within which various embodiments of the present disclosure may be employed. More specifically distributed network environment comprises multiple interconnected elements of hardware each running software allowing those elements of hardware to communicate with one another whether by wired or wireless connection. Such elements of hardware include but are not limited to a first communication device also referred to herein as sender that may have associated memory second communication device also referred to herein as receiver an applications server also referred to herein as secret and secure messaging application server or simply message server a communications and message management system and network appliances such as remote storage each communicating via the public Internet . Alternatives to using the public Internet or additional interconnection mechanisms include local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs etc. Alternatives to client devices or additional computer mechanisms include workstations personal computers servers that are personal computers mini or tablet computers computers computationally enabled personal digital assistants PDAs computationally enabled cell phones smart phones mainframes etc. The network within which the various embodiments of the present disclosure operates may also comprise additional or fewer devices without affecting the scope of the present disclosure.

While described in terms of a client server model herein the embodiments of the present disclosure may also operate in peer to peer or device to device models cloud computing models and so forth. Thus while reference is made to separate communications devices and a secret and secure messaging application server a sending communications device may include the functionality of the secret and secure messaging application server. A message device and a sending device or alternatively receiving device may be portions of a single physical device such as where such a single physical device includes memory a processor communication ports and applications capable of providing both such functionalities. Still further such a single device may be connected to other devices to provide a portion of the functionalities of the sending communications device and the secret and secure messaging application server. Accordingly it will be appreciated that a client server model is just one example of an implementation of the broader concepts provided by the present disclosure and unless otherwise stated the claims hereof shall not be interpreted as being so limited.

First and second communication devices may be desktop or workstation devices mobile devices such as portable computers so called smart phones tablet computers and the like or a mix of different types of devices. First and second communication devices may communicate via the public Internet using known Web browser software or dedicated specific purpose application software. As is well known software components supporting client devices server system and network appliances include or reference logic and or data that may form a part of the software component or be embodied in or retrievable from some other hardware of software device or signal either local or remote and coupled via a network or other data communications device. For example first communication device may have associated with or stored thereon a copy of a messaging application software program that operates in conjunction with elements of first communication device and other elements of distributed network environment to provide certain functionality described in further detail below. Similarly second communication device may also have associated with or stored thereon a copy of the messaging application software program that operates in conjunction with elements of second communication device and other elements of distributed network environment to provide certain functionality described herein.

Thus embodiments of the invention may be implemented as methods apparatus or articles of manufacture as or in software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. As used herein article of manufacture or alternatively computer program product is intended to encompass logic and or data accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media.

Those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this exemplary environment without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example it will be appreciated that aspects of the present disclosure are not dependent upon data structure formats communications protocols file types operating systems database management system or peripheral device specifics. Accordingly the following description is provided without reference to specific operating systems protocols or formats with the understanding that one skilled in the art will readily be able to apply this disclosure to a system and format of choice.

The present disclosure provides computer implemented systems and methods enabling secure communication between sender and receiver within an otherwise insecure communication system in a manner that such the secure communication is not immediately apparent from an examination of the sender or in particular the receiver devices. As used herein a communication is intended to be understood in its broadest sense and may include any form of electronically delivered information whether from sender to receiver only from sender to multiple receivers part of a two or more way exchange of electronically delivered content or some other structure. As used herein information is intended to be understood in its broadest sense and is independent of the format of that information such that it may include text audio still or motion video combinations of these formats and so on. For simplicity of explanation information in text form will be used in the typical example herein with the understanding that the present disclosure is not limited to information in text form.

Furthermore to avoid ambiguity text as used herein refers to the representation of written language. This is to be distinguished from texting. Information in text form may be transmitted by many different channels. Texting as commonly used is the exchange of information via the SMS protocol. Therefore text may be exchanged by texting . It may also be exchanged by email micro blogging tweeting and so on.

Therefore unless specified in the claims hereof the form of information exchanged does not form a limitation on the scope of the present disclosure. Similarly unless specified in the claims hereof the channel or protocol used to exchange that information does not form a limitation on the scope of the present disclosure.

With reference next to a model of various software components forming a part of an embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. These software components may be stored on and accessed and operated by one or more hardware components. This model comprises server software a mobile software suite and an enterprise software suite . Mobile suite may operate with one or more mobile device operating systems such as iOS Android OS and so on. Among other functions mobile software suite may provide interoperability of software server with the aforementioned one or more mobile device operation systems. Enterprise software suite may operate with one or more enterprise systems and protocols such as Microsoft Exchange Microsoft Active Directory Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP and so on. Among other functions enterprise software suite may provide integration of server software with the aforementioned one or more enterprise systems and protocols.

According to one embodiment of the present disclosure a data model is assembled from a document oriented database that contains information about a user the user s public key s the user s authorized device s and the user s communications service s such as email address SMS number etc. is an example of a database schema illustrating various entry relationships. The user s messages electronic message unit or EMU and documents may include several types of data including textual information images videos documents and audio.

The communication between clients and the message server s may in one embodiment employ traditional secure socket layer ssl http requests following the RESTful design pattern of web based Create Read Update and Delete. The application programming interface API features the following method areas.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure use of a system described above may proceed as follows. Initially a new user creates an account with the message server. With reference to an example of a new user account creation process is shown. The user account requires an email address and may optionally take a cell phone number for SMS verification. New user account process performs at least four general services. First the new account processes new user interactions at . If the user was invited into the system e.g. either by an acquaintance recommendation or by way of a sender attempting to send the user an EMU the user will have a broker account already established. The broker account is a temporary and surrogate public private key pair that has a limited lifespan expiration date number of uses etc. that will be transferred once a user account claims it and is verified. New user account process therefore also performs broker account services . A result of a successful new user registration is the assignment of public private keys to the new user. The key services portion of new user account process handles these key assignments. Finally and particularly in the case of a broker account a sender may provide a new user with an encrypted message. New user account process therefore also performs EMU message provision services .

Each user has at least two public keys created as part of the account creation. A Service Key is the primary key for encrypting a message to be provided to a recipient using the same service i.e. email microblogging as a secret and secure message. When the encrypted message is successfully retrieved by the recipient the recipient device uses the Service Key in the decryption process. A Safe Key is a secondary key used in situations when a user is unwilling compelled to produce a key. The Safe Key provides access to messages such as benign messages to satisfy a third party that the user isn t hiding additional messages. Passwords are also associated with the keys either a unique password for each key or a similar password for both. A password key input process cycles through each cipher text entry provided by the message server to the device for the message and based on the success of the encryption one of three states are provided the secret message is successfully decrypted on the device the secret message is not successfully decrypted but an appropriate one to many benign message is decrypted on the device and no reference is made to the secret message or decryption fails.

With reference to once a user account is created it is verified by process . Verification may be accomplished by service level verification e.g. email SMS etc. where the new user is contacted by the system with a unique verification code URL that must be processed according to the verification message. Once a user account is verified any claimed broker account will be transferred to the verified user account.

With reference to process associates devices such as cell phones web browsers tablets etc. to user account. This association restricts access for private key transmission authorization and location based benign message generation discussed further below . Device manager service manages the association of devices with user accounts and service link manager service manages services with which a user device is associated for example accounts with Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google and so on .

In addition to generation of new keys for new users there are situations in which a new public and private key are to be generated for an existing user. This could be employed for example when a user desires to revoke a previous key and create a new one. This process may irreversibly purge old messages since in the absence of the original key no access will be granted to messages associated with that key. An exemplary process for generating a new public and private key is illustrated in .

Once a user is registered with the system the user sender may create and send a secure and secret message to another user. With reference to a process for generating and sending a secure and secret message is shown. A local application is running on the sender s device at this point. The sender may compose a message using the local application or a supplemental application e.g. a word processing application SMS messaging application and so on on the sender s device e.g. personal computer . Media from other applications may also be attached to the message as discussed further below. To send the message and or attachments as a secure and secret message the user identifies the message attachments and the recipient s . From the identification of the recipient the application obtains from a message server the public key s for the recipient s . The sender device may then encrypt the message using the public key s . In certain embodiments only encrypted messages may be made available to a recipient as discussed further below . A message may be checked to ensure it is valid for delivery. Messages that are not encrypted such as plain text human readable messages may be disallowed or alternatively a warning may be issued alerting the sender that the message is not encoded and requires further action in order to proceed. The encoded message is provided to a secure and secret message application operating on the message server and that message application then handles the details of delivery benign message generation and recipient notification.

To further illustrate the process of creating and providing a secret and secure message to a recipient reference is now made to with additional detail illustrated in . Process begins with the sender at creating a message that the sender intends to be secret and secure and intended for the recipient as discussed above. The sender may specify a single recipient or in certain embodiments multiple recipients or recipient groups may be specified. The sender also specifies the service by which a benign message is to be provided to the recipient. This specification may be explicitly such as by selecting a send by radio button or pull down option or implicit based on the address of the recipient. Examples of services by which a benign message may be delivered include SMS messaging email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google and so on. The benign message may but need not necessarily be text based. For example the benign message may be a contextually appropriate audio clip still or animated video clip action or move in a game and so on. Various different forms of contextually appropriate benign messages may imply use of different specific delivery services. Therefore although the specific service used for delivery and format of the message are not a limitation on the scope of this disclosure. Optionally once the recipient is identified the services available for that recipient are determined at and a list of available services is provided for the sender s selection. Which service is used and the details for using that service for sending the message are handled by service link manager .

The secret and secure message is then encrypted at and provided to the secret and secure messaging application at . Any of a wide variety of known encryption methods may by employed as will be most appropriately selected with a specific implementation of the present disclosure in mind. The specific encryption method used is not a limitation on the scope of this disclosure.

If the recipient is a new user to the system an invitation and registration details are provided at and registration may proceed as previously discussed.

The secure and secret messaging application then generates a benign message at discussed in further detail below and delivers that benign message to the recipient at by way of the selected delivery service. The recipient receives and views the benign message at . The recipient may then access and view the encrypted message at using the benign message as a key to the encrypted message values discussed further below.

As previously mentioned the user manager has access to details about registered users such as location personal interests family members employment and so on. Initially a user as part of the registration process may enter this information. In certain embodiments collection of such information may be automated for example by identifying the location of the user s mobile device at the time a message is to be delivered by examining with the user s permission the user s address book calendar or communication software such as emails sms etc. For the material examined the user s attendance at certain events may be determined common acquaintances may be identified user interests may be determined and so on. This information whether manually entered or automatically determined is used for the purpose of generating a benign message under the control of message generator system .

For each message to be sent at least one contextually appropriate benign message is generated. Such a message may be How is the weather in today where is the current location of the recipient s registered device. Another example is How are the doing where is the name of a sports team in which the recipient has an identified interest again either by manual response or by automatic determination . While a text based message is used for the following description the benign message need not necessarily be text based. For example the benign message may be a contextually appropriate image audio clip and so on. The idea is that the recipient will receive the benign message as an indicator that the sender has a secure message for delivery to the recipient. The recipient may recognize the benign message as such an indicator by way of the name of the sender the content of the message an indicator associated with the message such as an icon or text .

With reference to a mobile telephone such an iOS or Android based device is illustrated. The telephone in this example is illustrative only as devices other than mobile phones such as tablets portable computers desktop computers workstations and so on may also be used. Device runs a messaging application in which for example messages may be exchanged with other devices by SMS. The user of device Shaun has received an SMS message from a sender Rich that states Hi Shaun. How are you How are the Panthers doing these days This is an example of a benign message generated by a message generator of associated with a secret and secure messaging system server. The recipient may know that Rich periodically communicates via a secret and secure messaging system of a type disclosed herein and therefore be alert to messages that may suggest the sender has also posted a secret and secure message at the secret and secure messaging application server.

In addition to the content of message other flags may be present to suggest to the user of device that a secret and secure message may be waiting. For example with reference to an SMS message may include a special icon that a user would recognize as a clue that a secret message is associated with the benign message. With reference to an SMS message may have benign prefix data associated with it such as From SS or the like preceding content. With reference to the messaging system on device includes code that permits the user to test a message to determine if is associated with a secret and secure message. For example upon receipt of message the user may perform some touch based gesture on a designated portion of the screen of device . If the proper touch based gesture is provided an additional benign message may be generated in context with message confirming to the user is near real time that a secret and secure message is available. With reference to an example of an exchange of benign messages is shown that may confirm that a secret and secure message is available. A recipient receives a first message and provides a contextually appropriate message . The secret and secure messaging system interprets reply and provides a confirming benign message indicating to the recipient that indeed a secret and secure message is available. Of course there are merely several examples of the general idea that a recipient may be provided with an indicia that from a benign message a secret and secure message is available. Furthermore while the examples above use text based SMS messaging other forms of messaging may also be used such as email posting to a social web service e.g. Facebook LinkedIn etc. micro blog posting e.g. Twitter inter application messaging e.g. messaging within and specific to a computer based game accounting software etc. and even machine generated voice mail.

Furthermore the native language idiom or regionalism of the benign message may vary from that of the secret and secure message and be selected to be contextually appropriate. Optionally a check system may be introduced to ensure that the same benign message is not used twice or too close in time. A computer based natural language interpreter may also be employed by the message server or in association therewith to ensure that two or more benign contextually appropriate messages are sensible and plausible and such that a third party would not likely be alerted that the benign messages are computer generated. These benign messages are guaranteed unique among the communicating parties sender receivers pair such that the parties never duplicate previous messages but may send messages that contain non unique subjects i.e. weather sports local events. . An exemplary process for generating a benign message is illustrated in . Still further the benign message may also be password protected such as using a safe key discussed further below for an appearance of security to be consistent with the system in which the messaging takes place and so on.

There are numerous benefits to automated generation of a benign message. First if the recipient s device is lost or becomes accessible to a third party only the benign messages are visible and retained in the device. As will be described following the benign message is the key to the encrypted message value. Viewing of the encrypted message occurs in a transient secure session and no copy of the message is retained on the viewing device with the session is ended. Second the benign message provides plausible deniability to the existence of the encrypted message. That is the user has a reasonable basis for arguing that no encrypted message was ever received. Indeed with no encrypted message delivered to the recipient device there is no message present that a third party might try to decrypt. Finally since the benign message is machine generated the sender is not troubled by needing to generate a benign message and in fact user privacy may be provided in that the sender need not know anything about the personal user details associated with the recipient.

With reference next to receipt of benign message and the resulting realization that a secret and secure message may be waiting for the recipient at the secret and secure messaging application server may suggest one or more actions by the recipient. The user may launch an application either on a computer such as a personal computer workstation or the like or on a portable device such as a tablet or smart phone that communicates with the secret and secure messaging application server. This communication will be a secure communication session such as by way of Transport Layer Security TSL or Secure Sockets Layer SSL protocols for encrypted communication over the Internet e.g. HTTPS .

Once launched the application provides a recipient with choices for how to view the secret and secure message. The recipient may request to view in an in box style viewer. According to process the in box will shown or contain the benign message the sender of the message and the mode of delivery of the benign message e.g. SMS number email address Facebook account etc. The benign message is an index to the secret and secure message so that by selecting the benign message the recipient can retrieve and view the secret and secure message.

In certain embodiments a user may view the secret and secure message by way of the application but no content is downloaded to the recipient s device. In other embodiments the benign message is first received on a first device and the application communicating with the secret and secure messaging application server runs on a second machine such that any secret and secure messages are downloaded to the second device and not to the first device. In this way the first device remains free of traces of the secret and secure message.

In still further embodiments the recipient may request one or more messages be downloaded to recipient s device for viewing and further action. With reference to according to process the recipient may use the device on which the benign message was received and a secret and secure messaging application running thereon to log in to the secret and secure messaging application server. Once logged in the user selects a received benign message and the application generates a hash code from the message. That code is used to transmit the message securely to the authorized recipient device.

Multiple passwords may be provided and used in the access and decryption steps. A Main Password may be provided that provides access to the encrypted message and authorizes its decryption. A Safe Password may also be provided that provides a plausible deniability function. When the Safe Password is entered the message server may return a unique alternate benign contextually appropriate message for example a machine generated dialog message. This is useful for example when a user is forced to divulge a password under duress. Entering the Safe Password produces a plausible message but one different from the secret and secure message. Of course and invalid password will produce an error message or no message at all.

As mentioned in certain circumstances a user may wish to request that keys to a specific service be revoked. The user for example may wish to revoke all past current and future communication on a microblogging site but keep past current future communication on that user s associated email sms service. Reasons behind this could be a general distrust of a service preference to no longer communicate via this service creating a new account and deprecating a previous account on a service etc. Another reason to do so is to prevent any decryption of previous messages or encryption of new messages associated with the user. That is it is one way to permanently prevent anyone from accessing encrypted messages. Process illustrated in demonstrates one example of revocation of a specific key. It will be appreciated that in process the public key is removed rendering the signature invalid for future messages. However the messages are not purged so they remain accessible for decryption by the receiving party.

According to a variation of the above process a recipient s access to a message may be completely removed. Process illustrated in shows one example. According to this process when a sender modifies his her own message that message is removed from the recipient s list of received messages. The sender will continue to have access to the message but the recipient will have no record of the encrypted message. The benign message may remain on the recipient s device subject to the measures the recipient takes to remove it and where it was posted.

Still further process illustrated in fully revokes the authority of a recipient device. This process will revoke the access a device has to the secret and secure messaging application server thus preventing any access to secret and secure messages. Again benign messages may remain accessible on the device having revoked authority. This process is useful if for example a device is lost replaced or otherwise not trusted.

Finally with reference to a process is illustrated for removal of a message from the secret and secure messaging application server. This process purges an encrypted message from the secret and secure messaging application server itself. If the encrypted message has been downloaded to the recipient device steps should also be taken to purge that message from the recipient device for security. Known automated process for such removal are one recommended method of ensuring secrecy and security of downloaded messages. Alternatively the process may provide steps for automatic purging of the message from both the sending device and the receiving device. Furthermore the benign message may remain on either or both the sending and receiving devices if desired for example for plausible deniability.

In the description above a message has been encrypted provided to a server and its presence advertised to a desired recipient by way of a benign message. The message may be in virtually any file format including SMS text or word processor formats e.g. .doc .txt .pdf .odt mail formats e.g. .msg image formats e.g. JPEG GIF TIFF BMP video formats e.g. .flv .mov .mp4 .mpg audio formats e.g. .mid .mp3 .wav data formats e.g. .dat .csv .efx executable file formats e.g. .app .exe and so on. Furthermore a message in any of these formats may include attachments that may themselves be in any desired format. The attachments may be separately encrypted and associated with a message or may be encrypted as part of the message itself.

According to certain embodiments of the disclosure the sender may indicate a lifespan for the message. The lifespan may be measured in a variety of ways such as elapsed time an absolute date a number of views a number of attempted decryptions etc. After passing of the lifespan access to the message may be revoked for example as illustrated and discussed with reference to by revoking keys devices hashing and so on.

With reference to a method for decrypting a secret message according to another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. According to this embodiment each user has at least two keys created as part of the account creation The primary key pair for passing a secret message and exchanging with trusted contacts and a compelled to produce safe key pair used when someone forces a user to give up a password. If a user is forced to give up a key the user can provide the safe key that will provide access only an otherwise benign or false message or set of messages either generated by the system or pre defined by the user. In the case of the safe key only the central server has access to this public key.

According to the present disclosure a user interacts with a computer system and controls provided thereby to generate and deliver a secret and secure message. In the process the user s system may communicate with other systems to obtain data verify data deliver data store or retrieve data etc. Those other systems may be interfaces to other computer user interactions or be autonomous or some combination of the two. As used herein interface is intended to include data structures virtual and physical connections between devices computer human user interface and other mechanisms that facilitate the exchange of data between computer system and or control of one or more such systems.

The embodiments described and hence the scope of the claims below encompass embodiments in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. It will also be appreciated that the methods in the form of instructions having a sequence syntax and content of the present disclosure may be stored on or equivalently in any of a wide variety of computer readable storage media such as magnetic media optical media magneto optical media electronic media e.g. solid state ROM or RAM etc. the form of which media not limiting the scope of the present disclosure. A computer reading said media is operable to either transfer e.g. download said instructions thereto and then operate on those instructions or cause said instructions to be read from the media and operate in response thereto. Furthermore devices e.g. a reader for accessing the instructions on said media may be contained within or connected directly to the computer on which those instructions operate or may be connected via a network or other communication pathway to said computer.

No limitation in the description of the present disclosure or its claims can or should be read as absolute. The limitations of the claims are intended to define the boundaries of the present disclosure up to and including those limitations. To further highlight this the term substantially may occasionally be used herein in association with a claim limitation although consideration for variations and imperfections is not restricted to only those limitations used with that term . While as difficult to precisely define as the limitations of the present disclosure themselves we intend that this term be interpreted as to a large extent as nearly as practicable within technical limitations and the like.

Furthermore while a plurality of preferred exemplary embodiments have been presented in the foregoing detailed description it should be understood that a vast number of variations exist and these preferred exemplary embodiments are merely representative examples and are not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the disclosure in any way. Various of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternative thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein or thereon may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the claims below.

Therefore the foregoing description provides those of ordinary skill in the art with a convenient guide for implementation of the disclosure and contemplates that various changes in the functions and arrangements of the described embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure defined by the claims thereto.

