---

title: Multiple via connections using connectivity rings
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems for performing design layout are provided. In an example, a design layout corresponds to a layout of a standard cell whose connectivity is described by a netlist. For example, the netlist specifies net types for respective vias of the standard cell. One or more connectivity rings are formed within the design layout to provide connectivity for one or more vias of the design layout. For example, a first connectivity ring is generated, such as from mandrel, to connect one or more ring one vias. A second connectivity ring is generated, such as from passive pattern, to connect one or more ring two vias. One or more cuts are generated within the design layout to isolate vias having different net types. In this way, the design layout is self-aligned double patterning (SADP) compliant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09213795&OS=09213795&RS=09213795
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 09213795
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20140616
---
This application is a divisional of and claims benefit to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 751 264 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 813 016 filed on Jan. 28 2013 and originally titled STANDARD CELL DESIGN LAYOUT. The title of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 751 264 was amended during prosecution to be MULTIPLE VIA CONNECTIONS USING CONNECTIVITY RINGS. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 751 264 is incorporated herein by reference.

Electronic design tools allow designers to layout simulate and analyze electronic components such as standard cells and integrated circuits. In an example a designer may create a design layout for a standard cell. Once the design layout without considering self aligned double patterning SADP is complete complex post processing is used to make the design layout SADP compliant. For example the design layout is adjusted using mandrel pattern and one or more cuts utilized to define passive pattern. Adding mandrel such as assist mandrel for SADP compliance can lead to area penalty of the standard cell and design flexibility degradation.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

One or more techniques and systems for performing design layout are provided herein. In some embodiments the design layout corresponds to a standard cell. The standard cell is configured to provide functionality such as logic based functionality or storage functionality. For example the standard cell comprises one or more transistors and one or more interconnect structures such as vias. A netlist for the design layout describes connectivity of the standard cell. For example the netlist specifies net types for respective vias within the design layout. A net type identifies a via as belonging to a particular net. The netlist can be used to perform design layout of the standard cell such that the design layout is self aligned double patterning SADP layout compliant as provided herein.

Accordingly a first connectivity ring is generated within the design layout. The first connectivity ring is generated from a first connectivity material type such as mandrel or passive pattern. The first connectivity ring provides connectivity for one or more ring one vias. For example a ring one via is a via that is connected by the first connectivity ring. In an example responsive to the first connectivity ring connecting a first ring one via to a second ring one via where the first ring one via has a net type that is different than a net type of the second ring one via a first cut is applied to the first connectivity ring to isolate the first ring one via from the second ring one via. In this way one or more cuts are performed on the first connectivity ring so that ring one vias of different net types are isolated from one another.

A second connectivity ring is generated within the design layout. The second connectivity ring is generated from a second connectivity material type that is different than the first connectivity material type. In an example the first connectivity material type corresponds to mandrel while the second connectivity material type corresponds to passive pattern or a material type that is different than mandrel. In an example the first connectivity material type corresponds to passive pattern while the first connectivity material type corresponds to mandrel or a material type that is different than passive pattern. The second connectivity ring provides connectivity for one or more ring two vias. For example a ring two via is a via that is connected by the second connectivity ring. In an example responsive to the second connectivity ring connecting a first ring two via to a second ring two via where the first ring two via has a net type that is different than a net type of the second ring two via a second cut is applied to the second connectivity ring to isolate the first ring two via from the second ring two via. In this way one or more cuts are performed on the second connectivity ring so that ring two vias of different net types are isolated from one another. In some embodiments one or more additional connectivity rings are generated and cut to isolate vias of different net types.

Connecting one or more vias using connectivity rings provides improved direct control over electrical characteristics of devices represented within the design layout. In an example the developer has improved control on self aligned double patterning SADP lithography variations such as swap cuts or cross circle connectors and electrical characteristics of the devices. For example relatively wide metal portions within the design layout can be reduced by using at least one of a swap cut or a cross circle connector.

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects can be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It is evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

The netlist specifies that a via H belongs to a fifth net type such that the via H is not to be connected to vias of other net types. The netlist specifies that a via I belongs to a sixth net type such that the via I is not to be connected to vias of other net types. The netlist specifies that a via J belongs to a seventh net type such that the via J is not to be connected to vias of other net types. The netlist specifies that a via K belongs to an eighth net type such that the via K is not to be connected to vias of other net types.

The design layout component is configured to generate the design layout based upon the netlist such that the design layout is at least one of self aligned double patterning SADP compliant or self aligned multiple patterning SAMP compliant. In an example the design layout comprises a first connectivity ring comprising a first connectivity material type such as mandrel. The first connectivity ring provides connectivity to the via A the via B and the via X . Because the via A and the via B belong to the first net type while the via X belongs to the third net type a first cut and a second cut are generated to isolate via X from the via A and the via B .

The design layout comprises a second connectivity ring comprising a second connectivity material type such as a passive pattern. The second connectivity ring provides connectivity to the via E the via F the via G the via J and the via K . Because the via E the via F and the via G belong to the fourth net type a third cut and a fourth cut are generated to isolate the via E the via F and the via G from vias belonging to other net types such as the via J and the via K . In an example the first cut and the third cut are merged to create a first merged cut and the second cut and the fourth cut are merged to create a second merged cut . A fifth cut is generated to isolate the via J and the via K from one another because the via J has a seventh net type while the via K has an eighth net type.

The design layout comprises a third connectivity ring comprising the first connectivity material type such as mandrel. The third connectivity ring provides connectivity to the via C the via D and the via I . Because the via C and the via D belong to the second net type while the via I belongs to the sixth net type a sixth cut and a seventh cut are generated to isolate via I from the via C and the via D . The design layout comprises a fourth connectivity ring . The fourth connectivity ring provides connectivity to the via H . In this way the design layout comprises one or more connectivity rings e.g. formed according to an onion based design that provides connectivity for vias without connecting vias of differing net types together for SADP compliance. It is appreciated that some embodiments of generating the design layout are described in further detail with regard to .

An exemplary method of performing design layout according to some embodiments is illustrated in and exemplary design layouts formed by such a methodology are illustrated in . In example of a design layout initially comprises one or more vias such that respective vias are restricted to a specific region. For example the design layout comprise a via A of a first net type a via B of the first net type a via C of a second net type a via D of the second net type a via X of a third net type a via E of a fourth net type a via F of the fourth net type a via G of the fourth net type a via H of a fifth net type a via I of a sixth net type a via J of a seventh net type and a via K of an eighth net type. Accordingly one or more connectivity rings are formed e.g. according to an onion based design within the design layout to provide connectivity for vias such that the design layout is at least one of self aligned double patterning SADP compliant or self aligned multi patterning SAMP compliant.

At a first connectivity ring is generated within the design layout . In example of the first connectivity ring is generated within the design layout such that the first connectivity ring connects the via A the via B and the via X . Because the first connectivity ring provides connectivity for the via A the via B and the via X such vias are referred to as ring one vias. In an example the first connectivity ring comprises a power connectivity ring that connect to a VSS via e.g. the via X and a VDD via e.g. the via A the via B etc. . In an example the first connectivity ring is generated from a first connectivity material type such as mandrel. In another example the a first portion of the first connectivity ring is formed from a first mandrel type while a second portion of the first connectivity ring is formed from a second mandrel type different than the first mandrel type e.g. an SAMP design . In an example a first spacer having a substantially uniform width is generated around the first connectivity ring .

At responsive to the first connectivity ring connecting a first ring one via to a second ring one via where the first ring one via has a net type that is different than a net type of the second ring one via one or more cuts are applied to the first connectivity ring to isolate the first ring one via from the second ring one via. In example of a first cut and a second cut are generated along the first connectivity ring in order to isolate the via X having the first net type from the via A and the via B having the second net type. In an example where the first connectivity ring comprises a power connectivity ring a power disconnect cut is applied to the power connectivity ring to isolate one or more VSS vias from one or more VDD vias.

At a second connectivity ring is generated within the design layout . In example of the second connectivity ring is generated within the design layout such that the second connectivity ring connects the via E the via F the via G the via J and the via K . Because the second connectivity ring provides connectivity for the via E the via F the via G the via J and the via K such vias are referred to as ring two vias. In an example the second connectivity ring is generated from a second connectivity material type such as a passive pattern. In an example a second spacer having a substantially uniform width is generated around the second connectivity ring .

At responsive to the second connectivity ring connecting a first ring two via to a second ring two via where the first ring two via has a net type that is different than a net type of the second ring two via one or more cuts are applied to the second connectivity ring to isolate the first ring two via from the second ring two via. In example of a third cut and a fourth cut are generated along the second connectivity ring in order to isolate the via E the via F and the via G having the fourth net type from vias having other net types such as the via J having the seventh net type and the via K having the eighth net type. In an example the third cut and the first cut are merged to create a first merged cut and the fourth cut and the second cut are merged to a create a second merged cut . A fifth cut is generated along the second connectivity ring in order to isolate the via J having the seventh net type and the via K having the eighth net type.

In some embodiments one or more additional connectivity rings are generated within the design layout . In example of a third connectivity ring is generated within the design layout such that the third connectivity ring connects the via C the via D and the via I . Because the third connectivity ring provides connectivity for the via C the via D and the via I such vias are referred to as ring three vias. In an example the third connectivity ring is generated from the first connectivity material such as mandrel. In an example a third spacer having a substantially uniform width is generated around the third connectivity ring . In example of a sixth cut and a seventh cut are generated along the third connectivity ring to isolate the via I having the sixth net type from the via C and the via D having the second net type. In example of a fourth connectivity ring is generated within the design layout . The fourth connectivity ring provides connectivity for the via H . In some embodiments one or more additional connectivity rings are generated until respective vias within the design layout are connected by at least one connectivity ring. Responsive to identifying a first via having a net type that is different than a net type of a second via that is adjacent to the first via a cut is applied to at least one corresponding connectivity ring to isolate the first via from the second via. In this way one or more cuts are applied so that isolation is provided between vias of different net types. In an embodiment this is iteratively performed until no two vias of different net types are adjacent to one another without being isolated from one another.

In some embodiments a cross circle connector such as a cross ring wire is generated to connect a connectivity ring with another connectivity ring. In example of a cross circle connector is generated between the first connectivity ring and the third connectivity ring . In an example the cross circle connector is generated because the first connectivity ring and the third connectivity ring are both generated from the first connectivity material. In another example the cross circle connector is generated based upon a width of a portion of the second connectivity ring exceeding a width threshold. In an example the merged cut e.g. merged cut of is replaced with a new cut along the first connectivity ring .

In some embodiments a ring connector such as a sub ring wire is generated between a first portion of a connectivity ring and a second portion of the connectivity ring to form a first connectivity sub ring and a second connectivity sub ring. In example of a first connectivity ring and a second connectivity ring are generated within a design layout. The first connectivity ring provides connectivity for one or more vias such that vias of different net types are not connected together. The second connectivity ring provides connectivity for one or more vias such as a first via and a second via having a first net type. In an example the design layout comprises a third via having the first net type. However the third via is not initially connected by the second connectivity ring . Accordingly connectivity is provided for the third via by way of a ring connector. In example of a ring connector is generated between a first portion of the second connectivity ring and a second portion of the second connectivity ring to form a first connectivity sub ring and a second connectivity sub ring . In an example the ring connector is generated to connect the third via having the first net type with at least one of the first via or the second via also having the first net type.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for performing design layout is provided. The method comprises generating a first connectivity ring from a first connectivity material type within a design layout connect one or more ring one vias. Responsive to the first connectivity ring connecting a first ring one via to a second ring one via where the first ring one via has a different net type than the second ring one via a first cut to the first connectivity ring is applied to the first connectivity ring to isolate the first ring one via from the second ring one via. A second connectivity ring is generated from a second connectivity material type within the design layout to connect one or more ring two vias. Responsive to the second connectivity ring connecting a first ring two via to a second ring two via where the first ring two via has a different net type than the second ring two via a second cut is applied to the second connectivity ring to isolate the first ring two via from the second ring two via.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a system for performing design layout is provided. The system comprises a design layout component. The design layout component is configured to generate a first connectivity ring within a design layout that connects on or more ring one vias. The first connectivity ring comprises mandrel or passive pattern. The design layout component is configured to generate a second connectivity ring at least partially surrounded by the first connectivity ring within the design layout which connects one or more ring two vias. The second connectivity ring comprises a passive pattern. One or more cuts are generated within the design layout to isolate vias having different net types.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a self aligned patterning compliant layout is provided. The self aligned patterning compliant layout comprises one or more vias of a design layout associated with an electrical component such as a standard cell. The self aligned patterning compliant layout comprises one or more connectivity rings that connect respective vias. In an example a first connectivity ring comprises a first via having a first via type and a second via having a second via type. The first via is isolated from the second via based upon a first cut applied to the first connectivity ring. In this way the self aligned patterning compliant layout comprises one or more cuts. The self aligned patterning compliant layout comprises at least one of a cross circle connector or a ring connector. The cross circle connector is configured to connect a second connectivity ring to a third connectivity ring based upon the second connectivity ring and the third connectivity ring being formed of a first connectivity material such as mandrel or passive pattern. The ring connector is formed between the second connectivity ring and the third connectivity ring to form a first connectivity sub ring and a second connectivity sub ring.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device may also include communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally to be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims.

