---

title: Authenticating redirection service
abstract: A redirection service may receive a destination URI plus a set of conditions for reaching the URI. The conditions may include authentication conditions. The service may generate an intermediate URI which may direct to an intermediate service. The intermediate service may execute the various conditions, then redirect to the destination URI. In some cases, the intermediate service may pass data to the destination URI, and such data may include data gathered while executing the various conditions. The intermediate service may accessed through an Application Programming Interface (API). An example use scenario for the redirection service may be to generate publically publishable URIs for a private chat service, where an intermediate URI may be generated for a specific user or group of users, and may permit only those users to access a private chat room through the publically available URI.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09516009&OS=09516009&RS=09516009
owner: TETRAPOD SOFTWARE, INC.
number: 09516009
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140929
---
Uniform Resource Identifiers URI are a naming convention for resources that may be available over the Internet or other networks. A Uniform Resource Locator URL is a subset of a URI and may be commonly referred to as a web address and a Uniform Resource Name URN is also a subset of a URI and provides a mechanism for identifying resources in a particular namespace. In general URIs are a convention for accessing content across a computer network.

A redirection service may receive a destination URI plus a set of conditions for reaching the URI. The conditions may include authentication conditions. The service may generate an intermediate URI which may direct to an intermediate service. The intermediate service may execute the various conditions then redirect to the destination URI. In some cases the intermediate service may pass data to the destination URI and such data may include data gathered while executing the various conditions. The intermediate service may accessed through an Application Programming Interface API .

A private chat system may use an authenticating redirection service to generate a publically viewable URI. When a user follows the publically viewable URI an intermediate service may authenticate the user and upon successful authentication may pass a destination URI that establishes a private chat session. The authentication system may use authentication services provided by social networks email verification or other sources to verify the user s identity and the private chat session may considered secure by reliance on the authentication made to the intermediate service.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A URI redirection service may use a set of conditions for permitting redirection from an intermediate URI to a destination URI. The set of conditions may include authentication but may also include other data collection or data verification. The conditions may be active or passive to the user meaning that the user may take an active role or provide requested input in authentication or other data collection or the data collection may be passive in that a redirection service may collect or verify data without the user s interaction.

The URI redirection service may consist of two basic functions creating an intermediate URI and processing a request for the intermediate URI. The creation step may receive the destination URI and conditions for accessing the destination URI and may generate the intermediate URI. The destination URI and conditions may be stored in a database along with the intermediate URI. Processing the request for the intermediate URI may be performed by an intermediate URI clearinghouse service which may respond to the intermediate URI perform various steps associated with the conditions and return the destination URI.

The step of creating an intermediate URI may be performed by a URI creation service which may receive a destination URI and a set of conditions for reaching the destination URI. The destination URI may be passed to the URI redirection service which may return an intermediate URI. The intermediate URI may be published. In some cases the URI may be published in a public forum although the URI may permit access to the destination URI for only specified authenticated users.

The URI creation service may receive a set of conditions for accessing a destination URI. In some cases the set of conditions may be predefined and in other cases a user may be able to select and define the conditions for accessing the destination URI. In one example an application may have a user interface from which a user may select the types of conditions for accessing the destination URI and other configuration information. The application may pass the destination URI and conditions to a URI redirection service which may be accessed through an API and may receive back an intermediate URI. The intermediate URI may be passed to various users who may attempt to access the destination URI and those users who meet the conditions may receive the destination URI and have access to a web page or other services at the destination URI.

The URI clearinghouse service may receive a request for a predefined intermediate URI then determine a set of conditions for accessing the destination URI. The URI clearinghouse service may passively gather data for various conditions or may actively engage a user in generating the data. Once the conditions are satisfied the destination URI may be returned to the user. When the conditions are not satisfied the URI clearinghouse may return a different URI which may be a default URI or a URI configured for requests that do not satisfy the conditions. In some cases the URI clearinghouse may collect data and may create a URI containing the data which may be passed to a service that may create a customized web page or take other customized action based on the data collected by the URI clearinghouse.

The URI clearinghouse service may provide authentication services prior to permitting access to the destination URI. The authentication services may involve communicating with one or more online social networks to receive authentication verification verifying a user s identity through email or other mechanism or other mechanism to verify identity.

In some cases the URI clearinghouse service may obtain security tokens or other credentials that may be provided by a remote authentication service then pass such tokens or credentials to a service that responds to the private URI. In some cases the tokens may be passed through a secure or trusted communication back channel that may not be available to an end user. In other cases some or all of the tokens may be embedded in a private URI that may be passed to the end user for access to the private service.

In still other cases the URI clearinghouse service may generate its own security token which may be passed to the service responding to the private URI. In such an embodiment the private URI service may trust the tokens provided by the URI clearinghouse and may or may not have an ability to verify a user s credentials against a remote authentication service.

The combination of a URI creation service and a URI clearinghouse service may be implemented distributed and sold as a standalone service. In such an implementation a service that may wish to provide privately accessed services may outsource authentication to a company that may provide the URI creation clearinghouse service.

Authentication services are typically improved and upgraded often plus such services can be complex and difficult to implement and administer. Because authentication may be provided by many remote services such as multiple social networks email verification mobile phone based authentication and other mechanisms managing all of the various authentication mechanisms may be cumbersome and complex. By outsourcing such services to a URI creation clearinghouse service a website or similar service may not have to burden itself with such a time consuming and complex task as managing authentication and may be able to better focus on their product and content.

A URI clearinghouse service may not give out a URI to an end user until the end user s credentials are verified as well as fulfilling other conditions for accessing a private URI. In such a configuration the service providing the private URI may perform no further authentication of the user when responding to a request for the private URI other than receiving and verifying security tokens that may be received from the URI clearinghouse service.

When elements are referred to as being connected or coupled the elements can be directly connected or coupled together or one or more intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when elements are referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled there are no intervening elements present.

The subject matter may be embodied as devices systems methods and or computer program products. Accordingly some or all of the subject matter may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code state machines gate arrays etc. Furthermore the subject matter may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by an instruction execution system. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted of otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

When the subject matter is embodied in the general context of computer executable instructions the embodiment may comprise program modules executed by one or more systems computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

Embodiment is merely one example of a mechanism that may have a public URI that is processed by an intermediate clearinghouse server to authenticate a user and once the user is authenticated the user may be provided with a destination URI.

The mechanism may be used in many different scenarios where conditional access to a website document or other network available resource. The mechanism may have a set of conditions that may be defined for access and after meeting those conditions an address for the network resource may be issued in the form of a URI.

One use scenario may be to limit access to a document to a single user or to a limited group of people. An intermediate URI may be generated that directs access to an intermediate clearinghouse service . The user who follows the intermediate URI may be asked to provide authentication credentials and once those credentials are verified the destination URI may be supplied to the user. The user may then have access to the document.

In another scenario an application may have private communication channels such as private chat rooms. A user of such an application may identify an end user with whom a private chat session may be desired. A publically accessible intermediate URI may be transmitted to the end user over an open network such as a social network. The end user may follow the intermediate URI and when that specific end user is authenticated the URI for the private chat room may be provided. For other users who are not authenticated an intermediate clearinghouse server may redirect to another URI.

An end user may interact in a public forum such as a social network and may receive a public intermediate URI . The public intermediate URI may be a URI that may be widely accessed but may redirect to a destination URI service only when a set of conditions are met. The redirection operations may be performed by an intermediate clearinghouse service .

In many cases the public intermediate URI may be distributed over a public forum although in other cases the intermediate URI may be distributed within a private network such as an electronic mail network intranet or closed social network. In the latter cases the system of embodiment may provide a second layer of security within a relatively private network or environment.

The end user may follow the public intermediate URI using a browser or other network call. Such a request may be serviced by an intermediate clearinghouse service which may look up the intermediate URI from a database . The database may contain conditions to meet prior to allowing access to a destination URI. As part of the conditions for access the intermediate clearinghouse service may send a request to an authentication service . The end user may be asked to supply credentials to the authentication service which may reply with an authentication token to the intermediate clearinghouse service .

The example of accessing an authentication service may be one example of a condition that may be met prior to granting access to a destination URI. Other examples of conditions may include affirmative actions that may be made by an end user. Such actions may include completing a survey or answering specific questions paying a fee or some other action.

Some conditions may be passive to the end user where the end user may not take affirmative action but where data may be gathered automatically and compared against conditions. For example a set of conditions may include a time and location condition. In such an example the end user s location may be retrieved from a geolocation service and compared against the expected or allowable locations of the user. The time of day or day of week conditions may also be evaluated to permit or deny access. Once the allowable conditions are met the destination URI may be issued to the end user. The end user may follow the destination URI in the form of a request to the destination URI service .

In some cases the conditions may generate or gather data that may be passed on to the destination URI service . For example the results of a survey or other data gathering operation may be passed to a service that responds to the destination URI. In the example of embodiment such results may be exemplified by an authentication token that may be passed from the authentication service to the intermediate clearinghouse service to the destination URI service . The destination URI service may then use the token to verify authentication. In the same way other data gathered by the intermediate clearinghouse service may be passed to the destination URI service without being passed to the end user .

In some cases data gathered by the intermediate clearinghouse service may be incorporated into a customized destination URI. For example a destination URI may include parameters and values that may be added by the intermediate clearinghouse service. The parameters and values may be passed to the end user then passed to the destination URI service in the form of a request .

The diagram of illustrates functional components of a system. In some cases the component may be a hardware component a software component or a combination of hardware and software. Some of the components may be application level software while other components may be execution environment level components. In some cases the connection of one component to another may be a close connection where two or more components are operating on a single hardware platform. In other cases the connections may be made over network connections spanning long distances. Each embodiment may use different hardware software and interconnection architectures to achieve the functions described.

Embodiment illustrates a device that may have a hardware platform and various software components. The device as illustrated represents a conventional computing device although other embodiments may have different configurations architectures or components.

In many embodiments the device may be a server computer. In some embodiments the device may still also be a desktop computer laptop computer netbook computer tablet or slate computer wireless handset cellular telephone game console or any other type of computing device. In some embodiments the device may be implemented on a cluster of computing devices which may be a group of physical or virtual machines.

The hardware platform may include a processor random access memory and nonvolatile storage . The hardware platform may also include a user interface and network interface .

The random access memory may be storage that contains data objects and executable code that can be quickly accessed by the processors . In many embodiments the random access memory may have a high speed bus connecting the memory to the processors .

The nonvolatile storage may be storage that persists after the device is shut down. The nonvolatile storage may be any type of storage device including hard disk solid state memory devices magnetic tape optical storage or other type of storage. The nonvolatile storage may be read only or read write capable. In some embodiments the nonvolatile storage may be cloud based network storage or other storage that may be accessed over a network connection.

The user interface may be any type of hardware capable of displaying output and receiving input from a user. In many cases the output display may be a graphical display monitor although output devices may include lights and other visual output audio output kinetic actuator output as well as other output devices. Conventional input devices may include keyboards and pointing devices such as a mouse stylus trackball or other pointing device. Other input devices may include various sensors including biometric input devices audio and video input devices and other sensors.

The network interface may be any type of connection to another computer. In many embodiments the network interface may be a wired Ethernet connection. Other embodiments may include wired or wireless connections over various communication protocols.

The software components may include an operating system on which various software components and services may operate. In the example of embodiment the device may operate both an intermediate URI generator and an intermediate URI clearinghouse . The intermediate URI generator may receive requests for intermediate URIs create the intermediate URIs and store information in a database . The database may contain a destination URI conditions for handling an incoming request for an intermediate URI and the intermediate URI .

An intermediate URI clearinghouse may respond to an intermediate URI process the various conditions and return the destination URI when the conditions are met.

A set of authentication mechanisms may be provided by the device . In some cases a set of remote authentication services may be used across a network . The authentication mechanisms or remote authentication services may include email verification services two factor authentication services using email or mobile devices password verification membership in a social network membership in a group within said social network membership in a predefined group providing a predetermined password email ownership verification mobile telephone possession verification survey completion or some other authentication mechanism.

The destination URI services may be websites document repositories or other services that may be accessed through intermediate URIs serviced by the intermediate URI clearinghouse .

In one type of embodiment the intermediate URI generator and intermediate URI clearinghouse may be a standalone business or service. In such an embodiment the intermediate URI generator may be accessed through an application programming interface API or other interface generate an intermediate URI then process the intermediate URI to return a destination URI. Such as standalone service may be useful to provide access limitations restrictions data collection or other services on top of products distributed by a destination URI service . In such an embodiment the service may be a convenient mechanism to limit distribution of certain content provide authentication services for private communication channels or collect data or distribute advertisements.

An application may be a service that has public access channels and private access channels . An example of such an application may be a company s customer management system. The public access channels may contain webpages forums document repositories and other network accessible resources. The private access channels may be staffed with customer support agents who may help individual customers with their individual requests such as configuring products setting up payment accounts dealing with individual issues or other private interactions.

Application users may contact an end user and wish to establish a private access channel with the end user . In a typical situation an end user may discuss a company s products or services in a social network which may be a public or other forum. An application user may detect that the end user could use some direct help possibly because the end user may have said something negative about the company. Rather than discussing the end user s problems in a public forum the application user may generate an intermediate URI for a private chat room and send the intermediate URI to the end user over the public social network . The end user may follow the intermediate URI have their credentials authenticated by the social network s remote authentication service and receive a link to a private access channel . Once the private channel is established the application user may be able to discuss the end user s issues in private and provide personal customer support.

A requesting user may be a user of a service such as the application of embodiment . Such an application may be represented in embodiment as a destination URI service . The destination URI service may be any application for which an intermediate URI may be desired.

The requesting user may send a private channel request to the destination URI service . The destination URI service may generate a request for an intermediate URI that may contain a destination URI and set of conditions . The request may be transmitted to an intermediate URI generator .

The intermediate URI generator may generate an intermediate URI which may be stored in a database for later use by an intermediate clearinghouse. The intermediate URI may also be returned to the destination URI service and forwarded as an intermediate URI to the requesting user . The intermediate URI may then be passed to the end user who may follow the intermediate URI to access the destination URI service once the conditions may be met.

Embodiment may be one example of an intermediate URI service. The intermediate URI generator may configure an intermediate clearinghouse which may assure that the conditions are met prior to providing access to a destination URI. In such an embodiment conditional access to a network resource may be provided through an intermediate URI service and clearinghouse without having to provide the infrastructure for the authentication.

The example of embodiment is simplified to illustrate merely one user experience that may be possible with an intermediate URI generator. More sophisticated user interfaces may be used where a user may be able to define complex conditions for granting access to a destination URI. In some cases an application may provide many more detailed conditions that may not be visible or changeable by a user.

A social network user interface in the example may be viewed by a customer service representative. In a message input box the customer service representative may mention a recipient may include a note and may include an intermediate URI . In the example the customer service representative may send a note to the user frustrated user asking the user to enter a private chat with the customer service representative.

The social network user interface may be configured to detect when a URI may be created in the message input box . In this case the customer service representative may have created a destination URI and pasted the destination URI in the message input box . The user interface may have detected the destination URI and initiated the creation of an intermediate URI with a popup box .

The popup box may be a user interface component that captures the destination URI and presents options for the destination URI. In the example the customer service representative may be given two selection options whether to make the destination URI a private URI for the listed users or as a public URI. In the case of embodiment the user selected private for the listed users.

The intermediate URI may be placed in the body of the social network message in place of the destination URI and the customer service representative may send the message by clicking on the button .

Other embodiments may use different sequencing additional or fewer steps and different nomenclature or terminology to accomplish similar functions. In some embodiments various operations or set of operations may be performed in parallel with other operations either in a synchronous or asynchronous manner. The steps selected here were chosen to illustrate some principles of operations in a simplified form.

Embodiment may illustrate a simplified interaction between a requestor and an intermediate URI generator . The requestor may be a human user or may be an application or program. The intermediate URI generator may be a website or other application that may have a user interface for human interaction or may be an application programming interface API or other machine only interface.

A requestor may identify a destination URI in block . The destination URI may be automatically created by an application in many embodiments such as with a private chat application in previous examples.

The conditions for accessing the destination URI may be determined in block . In many cases the conditions may include authentication or some other action that may be taken by a user. The conditions may include various other conditions such as user identity device type or identity of a device being used to access the destination URI physical location of an end user time of day or day of week membership in a social network or some other conditions.

An example of a condition may be to permit access to those people who have a social network connection with the requesting user. In one such implementation the intermediate URI clearinghouse may determine that a requesting user is not a follower or have a relationship with the requesting user. The intermediate URI clearinghouse may provide a user interface to the end user with a mechanism for establishing such a relationship then may permit access to the destination URI. In another such implementation end users with more than 10 000 followers in a social network may be permitted access to the destination URI while other end users may be given access to a different destination URI.

Another example of a condition may be to collect information that may be passed to the destination URI. For example a condition may be to gather an end user s physical location and pass the physical location to the destination URI. In such a case the destination URI may not necessarily be a secure or private URI but the destination URI service may use the physical location to monitor incoming traffic or provide customization to the end user based on physical location. Such an example is a simplified example of using an intermediate URI service to gather information that may be difficult or cumbersome for a destination URI service to gather. In such a use case an intermediate URI service may provide added value to a destination URI without a complex infrastructure.

The request for an intermediate URI may be transmitted in block from the requestor to the intermediate URI generator which may receive the request in block .

The intermediate URI generator may generate the intermediate URI in block configure a clearinghouse server for to respond to the intermediate URI with the designated conditions in block and transmit the intermediate URI in block .

The requestor may receive the intermediate URI in block and transmit the intermediate URI to the end user in block .

Other embodiments may use different sequencing additional or fewer steps and different nomenclature or terminology to accomplish similar functions. In some embodiments various operations or set of operations may be performed in parallel with other operations either in a synchronous or asynchronous manner. The steps selected here were chosen to illustrate some principles of operations in a simplified form.

Embodiment may illustrate a simplified interaction between an end user and an intermediate URI clearinghouse . The end user may be a human user or may be an application or program. The intermediate URI clearinghouse may be a website or other application that may have a user interface for human interaction or may be an application programming interface API or other machine only interface.

An end user may request an intermediate URI in block . Such a request may be made across a network which may direct the request to the URI clearinghouse which may receive the request in block .

The intermediate URI clearinghouse may initially determine in block if the intermediate URI exists. If the requested URI does not exist in block a 404 message or other default response may be transmitted in block and received by the end user in block . If the requested URI does exist in block the process may continue.

The intermediate URI clearinghouse may retrieve conditions associated with the requested URI in block . Such a retrieval may be made from a database such as the database of embodiment .

For each condition in block the condition may be processed in block and data retrieved in block . In some embodiments the conditions may be expressed in an algorithmic manner such that a flowchart or set of sequential conditions or steps may be expressed. In other embodiments the conditions may be expressed in a checklist or some other non sequential manner.

If all of the conditions are not met in block an alternative URI may be transmitted in block which may be received by the end user in block .

If all of the conditions are met in block an authentication token may be received from an authentication provider in block and transmitted to a destination service in block . The destination URI may be transmitted in block and received by the end user in block . The end user may then request a service from the destination URI in block and begin an authenticated session.

The foregoing description of the subject matter has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the subject matter to the precise form disclosed and other modifications and variations may be possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention in various embodiments and various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include other alternative embodiments except insofar as limited by the prior art.

