---

title: Multicolor photonic crystal laser array
abstract: A multicolor photonic crystal laser array comprises pixels of monolithically grown gain sections each with a different emission center wavelength. As an example, two-dimensional surface-emitting photonic crystal lasers comprising broad gain-bandwidth III-nitride multiple quantum well axial heterostructures were fabricated using a novel top-down nanowire fabrication method. Single-mode lasing was obtained in the blue-violet spectral region with 60 nm of tuning (or 16% of the nominal center wavelength) that was determined purely by the photonic crystal geometry. This approach can be extended to cover the entire visible spectrum.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09020005&OS=09020005&RS=09020005
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09020005
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140203
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 760 418 filed Feb. 4 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to vertically emitting laser arrays and in particular to a multicolor photonic crystal laser array that can be used for lighting and displays.

Surface emitting photonic crystal PC lasers are promising light sources for the next generation of compact and efficient light emitters used in data storage biomedical applications solid state lighting and display technologies. See M. Ikeda and S. Uchida 194 407 2002 H. M. Shapiro 4th ed. John Wiley Sons Inc. 2003 T. Gabrecht et al. 83 450 2007 A. Neumann et al. 19 A982 2011 and D. Sizov et al. 30 679 2012 . However in order for these PC lasers to be of practical use they must be constructed to emit over a large wavelength range particularly in the violet to visible wavelength regime. Previous realizations of PC lasers required complicated fabrication schemes had limited tuning range were reported at longer wavelengths far from the blue violet regime or implemented a single gain section. See H. Matsubara et al. 319 445 2008 S. Ishizawa et al. 4 2011 A. C. Scofield et al. 11 5387 2011 T. Kouno et al. 17 20440 2009 T. Kouno et al. 46 644 2010 O. Painter et al. 284 1819 1999 H. G. Park et al. 305 1444 2004 L. M. Chang et al. 89 071116 2006 and D. Kim et al. 23 1454 2011 . In particular emerging applications such as solid state lighting and display technologies require micro scale vertically emitting lasers with controllable distinct lasing wavelengths and broad wavelength tunability arranged in desired geometrical patterns to form super pixels . Conventional edge emitting lasers and current surface emitting lasers that require abrupt changes in semiconductor bandgaps or cavity length are not a viable solution for this requirement.

Therefore a need remains for a vertically emitting PC laser array that can be tuned over a large wavelength range.

The present invention is directed to a surface emitting photonic crystal laser comprising a two dimensional photonic crystal having a periodic vertically emitting laser nanowire structure and wherein the gain of an active region of the laser nanowire structure is sufficiently inhomogeneously broadened to emit at a lasing wavelength within a spectral bandwidth determined by the lattice structure lattice constant and nanowire diameter and height of the two dimensional photonic crystal. The laser nanowire structure comprises at least one additional active region that emits at another lasing wavelength with the spectral bandwidth of the photonic crystal. The nanowires can comprise an axial active region or a radial active region. The vertically emitting laser nanowire structures can comprise a group III V heterostructure and more preferably a group III nitride heterostructure. The lasing wavelength can be between 200 and 650 nm. The periodic vertically emitting laser nanowire structure can comprise at least 5 lattice periods thereby providing a first laser pixel that emits at a first lasing wavelength. Additional laser pixels can be provided that emit at different lasing wavelengths depending on the parameters of the two dimensional photonic crystals of additional laser pixels thereby providing a multicolor photonic crystal laser array. By selectively exciting certain laser pixels each with a different emission wavelength different colours and warmths can be achieved for a breadth of applications.

As an example of the invention a surface emitting single mode 2DPC optically pumped laser emitting in the blue violet spectral region was demonstrated to have a remarkable 60 nm of tuning or 16 of the nominal centre wavelength determined purely by the photonic crystal geometry. This wide tuning in emission wavelength was achieved by employing two gain sections GaN InGaN MQWs and InGaN underlayer covering different wavelength bands with broad gain bandwidth in conjunction with careful 2DPC design to select the lasing wavelength. Electron beam lithography was utilized to pattern the InGaN GaN nanowire hexagonal lattice based 2DPC combined with a novel top down nanofabrication method. The exquisite control enabled by the two step top down etch process enables excellent quality nanowire arrays with controlled geometries and very high yield. Normal direction lasing emission with relatively low thresholds was achieved by using the slow group velocity modes near the point of the 2DPCs at higher bands. This approach can be used to include additional gain sections in order to cover the entire visible spectrum. The fabrication approach can also be appropriately modified to utilize doped structures to create electrically injected devices. The invention enables solid state lighting devices and displays fabricated using III nitride 2DPC nanowire lasers to have dynamic colour tuning over a larger colour gamut.

Sufficiently broadened gain spectra are necessary in order to fabricate an array of lasers that span a large spectral bandwidth. One way of obtaining a broad enough gain spectrum is by choosing an active material with gain that is sufficiently inhomogeneously broadened. However these broadened gain spectra are often viewed as detrimental due to the reduced peak gain resulting in an increase of the laser threshold. The rich dispersion characteristics of photonic crystals PCs provide an elegant solution to this problem. Photonic crystals are composed of periodic dielectric nanostructures that affect the propagation of electromagnetic waves by defining allowed and forbidden optical bands. Therefore PCs contain regularly repeating regions of high and low dielectric constant. The periodicity of the photonic crystal structure is less than the wavelength of the electromagnetic waves that are to be diffracted.

Photonic crystal lasers comprise active gain region nanostructures that provide the mode confinement and the density of optical states structure required for optical feedback to take place. By adjusting the parameters e.g. lattice structure lattice constant or pitch nanostructure diameter and height etc. of a two dimensional photonic crystal 2DPC it is possible to maintain a low threshold gain condition for a 2DPC based laser over a large wavelength tuning range. The key to obtaining a low lasing threshold lies in the bandstructure of the 2DPC. It has been predicted that in 2D and 3D photonic crystals certain modes can exhibit near zero group velocity along certain lattice directions for particular bands that can be utilized to reduce lasing threshold. See H. Matsubara et al. 319 445 2008 K. Sakoda 2nd ed. Springer Verlag 2005 C. Monat et al. 81 5102 2002 L. Ferrier et al. 17 9780 2009 and L. Ferrier et al. 16 3136 2008 . These modes propagate slowly enabling increased interaction time of the electromagnetic fields with the gain material thereby lowering the lasing threshold. This makes it possible to reach low lasing thresholds in material systems that exhibit a small amount of gain or a reduced gain over a larger bandwidth.

The present invention is directed to a 2DPC based laser comprising a periodic array of nanowires that emits in an important region of the electromagnetic spectrum. The invention is generally useful with any vertically aligned group III V nanowire array. The 2DPC can generally have a lattice constant that is 0.7 0.8 times the lasing wavelength and a nanowire diameter that is 0.3 to 0.5 times the lattice constant. The nanowires can have a variety of cross sections depending on the etch chemistry including circular. The term nanowire can be used interchangeably with the terms nanocolumn nanopillar or nanorod or variations thereof. In additional to the hexagonal PC lattice structure other lattice structures that have slow group velocity modes with different frequency polarization and spatial distributions to tailor the laser far field pattern can be used including square rectangular honeycomb Archimedean etc. The III V compound semiconductor can comprise one or more group III element such as aluminum gallium or indium and one or more group V element such as antimony arsenic phosphorous or nitrogen. For example the 2DPC laser can be a GaN based laser with a lasing wavelength less than about 650 nm as described in further detail in the examples below. However the invention can be generalized to other III V semiconductors with an expanded range of lasing wavelengths by modifying the nanowire fabrication etch chemistries and active region heterostructures. For example an III nitride heterostructure can comprise at least two of GaN AlN InN AlGaN InGaN InAlN and AlInGaN and have a lasing wavelength between 200 and 1800 nm.

The 2DPC based laser can meet all of the requirements for next generation laser arrays i the fabrication is scalable leading to tunability over a large wavelength range that can be performed at once on a single substrate ii the necessary area of the photonic crystal is small allowing for dense arrays iii the fabrication for nanowire structures is simplified since there is no need to remove the substrate or fabricate a distributed Bragg reflector DBR beneath the PC iv light is emitted vertically and v the emission is single mode. These requirements can be met using a design based upon low group velocity lasing that utilizes lateral feedback which allows the incorporation of additional gain materials intended for different spectral regions. See K. Sakoda 2ed. Springer Verlag 2005 . This fabrication method coupled with the wide gain bandwidth of semiconductor nitride materials enables a new class of compact monolithic multiple wavelength photonic devices.

As an example of the present invention a 2DPC based laser comprising an array of GaN nanowires in a hexagonal lattice was fabricated to achieve lasing in a broad gain bandwidth system. The nanowires contained two gain sections embedded axially one was composed of InGaN multiple quantum wells MQWs with an emission centered at 430 nm the other a 150 nm thick InGaN underlayer with an emission centered at 385 nm commonly used to improve the quality of the subsequent MQW structures. Selective lasing of the different gain sections can be achieved by carefully designing the 2DPC parameters e.g. lattice constant nanowire diameter height to match the slow group velocity modes with the desired lasing wavelength.

The 2DPC laser array was fabricated using a top down nanowire fabrication method described previously. See Q. Li et al. 20 17873 2012 Q. Li et al. 19 25528 2011 and U.S. application Ser. No. 13 743 433 filed Jan. 17 2013 which are incorporated herein by reference. The top down approach enables the use of high quality planar epitaxial materials thereby relaxing 1D material growth constraints. illustrate the two step etch top down fabrication method of the exemplary 2DPC laser array. As shown in the semiconductor material was grown on 2 c plane sapphire using a metal organic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD reactor. The epitaxial layers consisted of an n i n structure of GaN an axial heterostructure active region comprising InGaN QWs and an InGaN underlayer grown on a 4 m buffer layer of GaN . The 4 m thick GaN buffer layer discourages Fabry Perot type oscillations in the vertical direction by eliminating the reflection from the nanowire substrate interface. Since processing of the 2DPC laser requires stringent control over the array geometry electron beam lithography was used to pattern the photonic crystal arrays. As shown in a nickel etch mask was patterned using electron beam lithography and fabricated by a lift off process. To transfer the photonic crystal pattern to the underlying semiconductor material the devices were etched using a reactive ion dry etch. The dry etch created isotropic nanocones as shown in . The dry etch step was followed by a KOH based AZ400K photoresist developer wet etch to remove the highly defective region caused by plasma damage. This wet etch can be timed to precisely control the diameter of the resulting individual nanowires and form a 2DPC array of highly anisotropic nanowire structures due to the selective nature of the etch chemistry as shown in . The top down nanowire fabrication method can be used more generally to fabricate III V nanowires with axial heterostructure active regions and more particularly III nitride nanowire structures.

Alternatively the 2DPC can comprise vertically aligned core shell nanowires with a radial active region fabricated according to a method described in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 743 433. First an array of vertically aligned III V compound semiconductor nanowires is fabricated by providing a III V layer on a substrate coating the III V layer with an etch mask plasma etching the III V layer through the etch mask to provide a semi periodic array of tapered nanowires and selectively wet etching the sidewalls of the tapered nanowires to provide an array of vertically aligned III V compound semiconductor nanowires on the substrate as shown in . As shown in this method further comprises growing a radial heterostructure shell layer coaxial with each of the vertically aligned III V nanowires . The method can further comprise growing a top layer on the shell layers to provide a 2DPC array of core shell nanowire structures as shown in . The III V nanowires can preferably comprise III nitride nanowires. For example the III nitride nanowires can comprise vertically aligned n type GaN nanowires. The shell layer can comprise a radially grown III nitride MQW structure such as an InGaN GaN or GaN AlGaN based MQW structure. The top layer can comprise p type InGaN. Alternatively an inverted structure can comprise an array of vertically aligned p type GaN nanowire cores surrounded by an III nitride MQW shell layer and an n type GaN top layer. Other III nitride and III V core shell structures can also be used.

A test structure was fabricated according to the method shown in to examine the tuning available from varying the lattice constants and diameters of the nanowires in an array of photonic crystal pixels. To utilize the entire available gain bandwidth of the two gain regions of the axial active region an array of 2DPC pixels with lattice constants ranging from 290 nm to 330 nm was fabricated. For each lattice constant the nanowire diameters ranged from d 0.43a 0.47a i.e. 120 nm to 150 nm . All of the nanowires had a uniform height of 600 nm. The test structure was 100 m 100 m in size and comprised an array of 10 m 10 m pixels each with a distinct lattice constant. The test structure was fabricated without a separation gap between photonic crystal pixels to illustrate that a very large packing density can be achieved. Each pixel in the array could be addressed individually by pumping a selected area.

The 2DPC lasers were analysed using a micro photoluminescence pPL setup that enabled optical excitation of a single pixel in the array or a group of pixels by controlling the pump spot size. A pixel with a lattice constant of a 320 nm and a nanowire diameter of d 143 nm was examined to illustrate the lasing threshold behaviour. shows spectra measured as a function of pump intensity between 5 kW cmand 235 kW cmfor this pixel. At low pump intensity a broad photoluminescence PL emission between 400 460 nm is observed. As the pump intensity is increased a sharp peak emerges at the short wavelength edge of the PL spectrum. Further increase in the pump intensity causes the peak intensity of the narrow feature to rise rapidly in contrast to the slowly rising background PL. The light in light out LL curves peak intensity versus pump power density shown on the left vertical plane in reveal a clear threshold behaviour. The lasing emission occurs at 415 nm with a threshold of 130 kW cm. In addition to the threshold behaviour narrow spectral features 

All of the pixels exhibited single mode lasing behavior over a spectral range spanning from 380 nm to 440 nm. The lasing wavelength for all the pixels with different lattice constants corresponded to a reduced frequency a of 0.75 to within 5 . This reduced frequency position corresponds well with the positions of the low dispersion bands shown in . In addition to tuning the emission wavelength by changing lattice constants it is also possible to achieve further fine tuning by changing the nanowire diameters for a given lattice constant. Thus by suitably adjusting the lattice constant and diameter of the nanowire a near continuum of lasing wavelengths can be realized within the gain spectral region of the QWs and the underlayer. shows a representative collection of lasing spectra near threshold from 30 pixels whose wavelengths are between 380 440 nm. Due to the wavelength dependence of the material gain longer wavelength pixels have a higher pump power requirement to reach threshold as a result these pixels show a more prominent background PL. By using additional gain sections a flatter gain profile can be obtained to minimize this effect. A careful observation of the spectra reveals two sets of peaks one grouped between 375 and 390 nm and the second grouped between 405 and 440 nm. These two regions correspond to the emission band from the underlayer and the InGaN MQWs respectively.

To confirm that the different gain media sections could be accessed individually through PC design a control sample was fabricated using the same method but without the quantum well stack and only GaN and the InGaN under layer. Laser emission was found from 378 to 390 nm from this sample indicating that a portion of the broad spectrum of the final device was enhanced by the inclusion of two gain media. The observed laser emission from the under layer sample can be seen on the left hand side of . This demonstrates that lasing at different wavelengths can be achieved on a single chip by appropriately designing the 2DPC even on a single epitaxial wafer that is composed of multiple materials with different gain bandwidths. Therefore by incorporating MQW sections with longer emission wavelengths the entire visible spectrum can be spanned. This requires high enough quality MQWs to possess the necessary gain required for lasing at longer wavelengths. Larger indium concentration can degrade the quality of the QWs. Unlike conventional lasers with axial cavities the different gain sections do not interact with each other because of the lateral nature of the feedback provided by the 2DPC.

An additional advantage of this approach is the ability to fabricate densely packed micro scale laser pixels. By placing the 2DPC lasers in close vicinity to one another a single pump can optically excite multiple pixels at once. shows the results of pumping four of the 2DPC lasers at one time. The spectrum clearly shows four independent laser lines with nearly uniform intensities. These 2DPC lasers were fabricated to have the same lattice constant of 300 nm but slightly different diameters and therefore different emission wavelengths. shows the far field emission pattern of the four lasers operating together. This demonstration shows how III nitride 2DPC lasers can be used for active wavelength selection in future solid state lighting and display devices. An array of surface emitting laser pixels each with a different lasing wavelength can be fabricated from photonic crystal lattices comprised of semiconductor nanowires that can be arranged in desired geometric patterns to form super pixels . Arrays can be fabricated by locating in close proximity photonic crystal pixels with different emission wavelengths to create arrays that can have arbitrary color by mixing as shown in . The array can cover a broad spectral range by tuning of the individual photonic crystals in each pixel. The wavelength selection can be achieved by changing the photonic crystal parameters namely the lattice constant and the diameter of the individual elements that make up the photonic crystal. The laser pixels in the array can be quite small on the order of a few microns to very large hundreds of microns on each side . The photonic crystals can exhibit nearly arbitrary geometry as long as each pixel lattice contains at least 5 periods for sufficient feedback. The pixels can be spatially very close and have large spectral variation for maximum color gamut. By selectively exciting optically or electrically certain laser pixels each with a different emission wavelength different colours and warmths can be achieved for a breadth of applications. Accordingly the invention enables wafer scale laser arrays tuned over the entire UV to visible range.

The present invention has been described as a multicolor photonic crystal laser array. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

