---

title: Electronic device and method for image processing
abstract: A method for displaying images is provided, including displaying, by an electronic device, a first image obtained from an image sensor; displaying, by the electronic device, a plurality of second images together with the first image, wherein each second image is generated based on the first image and a respective image filter; and responsive to a selection of at least one second image, generating a third image based on the first image and the selected second image's respective image filter and displaying the third image in place of the first image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571736&OS=09571736&RS=09571736
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09571736
owner_city: Samsung-ro, Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140313
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to a Korean Patent Application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Mar. 14 2013 and assigned Serial No. 10 2013 0027590 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to electronic devices and more particularly to an electronic device having an image processing function.

Electronic devices such as cellular phones electronic schedulers personal complex terminals laptop computers and the like have become a necessity to modern life. Such devices often include a camera function that permits users to capture images and enhance the captured images by applying various photographic effects to them. At present the need exists for new user interfaces for applying photographic effects to images that are both effective and easy to use.

The present disclosure addresses this need. In accordance with one aspect of the disclosure a method for displaying images is provided the method comprising displaying by an electronic device a first image obtained from an image sensor displaying by the electronic device a plurality of second images together with the first image wherein each second image is generated based on the first image and a respective image filter and responsive to a selection of at least one second image generating a third image based on the first image and the selected second image s respective image filter and displaying the third image in place of the first image.

In accordance with another aspect of the disclosure an electronic device is provided comprising a display module an image sensor for acquiring a first image and processing circuitry configured to display on the display unit a first image obtained from the image sensor display on the display unit a plurality of second images together with the first image wherein each second image is generated based on the first image and a respective image filter and responsive to a selection of at least one second image generate a third image based on the first image and the selected second image s respective image filter and display the third image in place of the first image.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the disclosure an electronic device is provided comprising an image sensor for acquiring an image one or more processors a memory for storing processor executable instructions which when executed by the one or more processors cause the electronic device to display on the display unit a first image obtained from an image sensor display on the display unit a plurality of second images together with the first image wherein each second image is generated based on the first image and a respective image filter and responsive to a selection of at least one second image generate a third image based on the first image and the selected second image s respective image filter and display the third image in place of the first image.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the disclosure an electronic device is provided comprising a processor unit configured to obtain a first image through an image sensor display at least one second image corresponding to effect for the first image together with the first image and in response to a selection of the at least one second image display at least a portion of the first image using the effect and a display module configured to display the at least one second image corresponding to effect for the first image and the first image.

Aspects of the present disclosure will be described herein below with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the following description well known functions or constructions are not described in detail since they would obscure the disclosure in unnecessary detail. And terms described below which are defined considering functions in the present disclosure may be different depending on user and operator s intention or practice. Therefore the terms should be defined on the basis of the disclosure throughout this specification.

The host device may include an internal memory one or more processors and an interface . The internal memory the one or more processors and the interface may be separate constituent elements or they may be integrated together in one or more integrated circuits.

The processor may include any suitable type of processing circuitry such as an ARM based processor a MIPS based processor an x86 processor an FPGA or another electronic circuit. In some implementations the processor may be part of a system on a chip SoC . In operation the processor may execute various software programs and perform various functions for the electronic device and perform processing and control for voice communication video communication and data communication. Also in addition to this general function the processor may execute a software program i.e. an instruction set stored in the internal memory and or external memory device . In addition the processor may play even a role of executing a specific software program i.e. an instruction set stored in the internal memory and or external memory device and perform specific various functions corresponding to the executed program. For example the processor may interwork with the software programs stored in the internal memory and or external memory device and perform a method of an exemplary aspect. Also the processor may include one or more Application Processor Units APUs Graphics Processor Units GPUs audio processor units communication processor and or any suitable type of electronic circuit.

The application processor unit may execute an Operating System OS and perform a variety of functions and it may be one chip gathering all of functions of a core a memory a display system controller a multimedia encoding decoding codec a 2 Dimensional 3 Diminsional 2D 3D accelerator engine an Image Signal Processor ISP a camera an audio a modem various high and low speed serial parallel connectivity interfaces and the like. For example the application processor unit may drive the OS and applications and may be a System On A Chip SOC being one chip gathering various functions of controlling a system device interface.

The graphics processor unit may perform operations related to graphics processing and may take charge of image information processing acceleration signal conversion screen output and the like. In some implementations the graphics processor may be able to process 2D or 3D graphics faster than the application processor unit.

The audio processor unit may perform operations related to audio processing and may change an audio signal from a digital format to analog format and vice versa . The communication processor unit may take charge of communication processing between the electronic device and other devices and when the electronic device intends to use a communication function of a network the communication processor unit may perform a function of establishing a connection between the electronic device and the like. The interface may connect the host device with various devices of the electronic device .

The external memory device may include any suitable type of volatile and non volatile memory. For example the external memory device may include high speed random access memories and or non volatile memories such as one or more magnetic disc storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memories e.g. NAND NOR . The external memory device stores software. The software may include an OS program a communication program a camera program a graphic program one or more application programs a user interface program a codec program and the like. The term of program may be expressed as a set of instructions or an instruction set or a program. The communication program the camera program the graphic program the one or more application programs the user interface program and the codec program may use various functions of the OS program through various Application Programming Interfaces APIs .

The OS program represents an embedded operating system such as WINDOWS LINUX Darwin RTXC UNIX OS X or VxWorks and may include various software constituent elements controlling general system operation. Control of the general system operation may include memory management and control storage hardware device control and management power control and management and the like. Also the OS program may facilitate communications between various hardware devices and software constituent elements modules .

The communication program may enable a communication with a remote computer server or electronic device through the wireless communication device or the external port device .

The camera program may include a camera related software constituent element for enabling camera related processes and functions. The camera program may perform pre processing for applying various effects to an image obtained from the image sensor under API support of Open Graphics Library OpenGL DirectX and the like and perform post processing for applying various effects to a captured snap image. Filters for those effects may be collectively managed such that the filters may be commonly used in both the pre processing and the post processing. In addition the filters may be used even by other programs in addition to the camera program.

The graphic program may include various software constituent elements for providing and displaying a graphic on the touch screen device . The graphic program may include various APIs such as OpenGL DirectX and the like to create graphics. Additionally or alternatively the graphic program may provide various filters which may apply various effects to an image. It should be understood that the term graphics refers to any type of information that is renderable on a display screen and it may include a text a web page an icon a digital image a video an animation and the like. In some implementations the graphic program may be an image viewer that focuses usability to image post processing an image edition program a camera related program that is optimized to image pre processing a video phone related program and the like. The graphic program may perform post processing for applying various effects to a rendering completed image or may perform pre processing for applying various effects to an image. As described above the filters for those effects may be collectively managed such that the filters may be used commonly with other programs.

The camera program and or the graphic program may perform a function of downloading and installing a filter package file from the external e.g. a network an e mail a messenger a detachable external memory or the like . If the camera program and or the graphic program downloads and installs the filter package file from the network a filter and filter related data e.g. an icon image a filter name a filter version and the like which are included in the filter package file may be managed collectively in a database. Also when the filter is deleted from the database not only the filter but the filter package file may be all deleted. The camera program and or the graphic program may display the icon image and the filter name which indicate the added filter together. The filter name may be translated and displayed in a user language. Particularly the camera program may apply the effect of the added filter to an image obtained from the image sensor and then provide the image by an icon e.g. a thumbnail image .

The application program may include a browser an e mail an instant message word processing keyboard emulation an address book a touch list a widget Digital Right Management DRM voice recognition voice replication a position determining function a location based service and or any other suitable software.

The user interface program may include various software constituent elements related to a user interface. Also the user interface program may include information specifying the manner in which state changes in the user interface are to take place. Such information may specify conditions that trigger the state changes and or any other suitable information.

The codec program may include a software constituent element related to encoding and decoding of a video file.

The external memory device may further include programs instructions in addition to the aforementioned programs. Also various functions of the electronic device may be implemented in hardware including one or more stream processing Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs software and or a combination of software and hardware.

The image sensor may convert light reflected from a shot object into an electrical signal. The image sensor may be a Charged Coupled Device CCD a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS or the like.

Various constituent elements of the electronic device may be connected with one another through one or more communication buses not denoted by reference numerals or stream lines not denoted by reference numerals .

The sensor device may include a motion sensor an optical sensor a temperature sensor and the like and enable various functions. For example the motion sensor may sense a motion of the electronic device and the optical sensor may sense ambient light.

The GPS reception device may receive signals sent from GPS satellites and determine a current position.

The wireless communication device may enable wireless communication and may include a wireless frequency transmitter receiver and an optical e.g. infrared transmitter receiver. The wireless communication device may include a module that includes at least one antenna a Radio Frequency RF connector and the like. The wireless communication device may be designed to operate through one of a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM network an Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE network a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network a Wireless Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA network a Long Term Evolution LTE network an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA network a Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi network a Wireless interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX network a Bluetooth network or and the like according to a communication network.

The audio device is connected to a speaker and a microphone to take charge of audio input and output of voice recognition voice replication digital recording call function and the like and may include an audio amplifier. The audio device may communicate with a user through the speaker and the microphone . Also the audio device may receive a data signal from the host device convert the received data signal into an electrical signal and output the converted electrical signal through the speaker . The speaker may convert an electrical signal into an audible frequency band and output the audible frequency band and the microphone may convert a sound wave forwarded from a character or other sound sources into an electrical signal. Also the audio device may receive the electrical signal from the microphone convert the received electrical signal into an audio data signal and transmit the converted audio data signal to the host device . The audio device may include an earphone headphone or headset that is detachable from the electronic device .

The external port device may direct connect the electronic device with other electronic devices or indirect connect the electronic device with other electronic devices through a network for example the Internet an intranet a wireless LAN and the like .

The touch screen device may provide an input and output interface between the user deice and a user. The touch screen device may apply a touch sensitive technology and may forward a user s touch input to the host device and show to the user visual information provided from the host device for example a text a graphic a video and the like. In some implementations the touch screen device may include a display displaying an image. The display may be one of an Electro Wetting Display EWD E Paper a Plasma Display Panel PDP a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED and an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AMOLED and or any other suitable type of display. In addition the touch screen device may include a touch sensitive device such as a stylus pen digitizer a capacitive overlay touch panel a resistance overlay touch panel a surface acoustic wave touch panel and an infrared beam touch panel. Although in this example a touch screen device is used that includes both display and touch sensing components in other examples only display device may be used. In such examples a mouse or another type of input device may be used to receive user input.

The other input control devices may include an up down button for volume control. In addition to this the other input control devices may include at least one of a push button of a specific function a locker button a rocker switch a thumb wheel a dial a stick and a pointer device such as a stylus and the like.

The power supply device may include at least one Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC . The PMIC may adjust a battery power. For example according to a load to process the processor may transmit an interface signal dependent on the load to the power supply device . The power supply device may adjust a core voltage supplied to the processor adaptive to the processor . The processor may be driven at a minimum power all the time. In addition to the PMIC for the host device at least one PMIC related to at least one of the external memory device the image sensor the sensor device the GPS reception device the wireless communication device the audio device the external port device the touch screen device and the other input control devices may be constructed. Also one integrated PMIC may be constructed. The integrated PMIC may adjust a battery power of not only the host device but also at least one of the external memory device the image sensor the sensor device the GPS reception device the wireless communication device the audio device the external port device the touch screen device and the other input control devices .

The integrated filter management unit may provide an image filter API. If there is a request for a specific effect from the application unit the integrated filter management unit may load a specific filter from the filter directory and call an API function for the loaded filter. The integrated filter management unit may provide video phone applications and other suitable software with an API for image pre processing or post processing. The integrated filter management unit may be configured to designate a subject i.e. a CPU or GPU that is configured to perform the filtering operation in accordance with the loaded filter in order to generate the effect requested by the application unit .

The integrated filter management unit may provide a filter edition function. Through the filter edition function a user may set a favorite effect list and the integrated filter management unit may store the favorite effect list in the filter directory . Also the user may select a filter intended to be deleted through the filter edition function and the integrated filter management unit may delete a specific filter from the filter directory . Particularly when the filter intended to be deleted is a filter installed through a filter package file i.e. a filter installation file the integrated filter management unit may delete the filter package file and guarantee a storage space. The filter package file may include a filter a filter name an icon image a vendor a filter type pre processing post processing a version or the like. Also the user may select synthesizable multiple effects through the filter edition function and the integrated filter management unit may group filters for the synthesizable multiple effects and store the grouped filters in the filter directory . Also the integrated filter management unit may use a specific filter commonly used for the image pre processing and the image post processing because the integrated filter management unit collectively stores and manages all of image processing related filters which work in the electronic device in the filter directory .

The filter directory may store a plurality of filters and may be managed by the integrated filter management unit . The filter download unit may provide a download function. Through the download function a user may download a filter from the external e.g. a network an e mail a messenger a detachable external memory or the like and the integrated filter management unit may store the acquired filter in the filter directory . Also the filter download unit may further provide a filter installation function. The user may download a filter package file from the network and install the filter package file through the filter installation function. If the filter package file is installed the integrated filter management unit may store a filter and filter related data e.g. a filter name an icon image a vendor a filter type or the like which are included in the filter package file in the filter directory .

In operation the acquisition module may obtain a first image through the image sensor . The display module may display at least one second image corresponding to effect for the first image together with the first image. In response to a selection of the at least one second image the effect applying module may display at least a portion of the first image by using the effect.

Referring to if the user presses the effect menu button the effect menu button is moved up and a plurality of icons and may appear arranged horizontally at a lower side of the screen . The icons and may be arranged horizontally at an upper side of the screen or may be arranged vertically at a left or right side of the screen . If the user presses the effect menu button once again the effect menu button may return to the original position of the screen of and the icons and may disappear. If the user touches a region displaying image data obtained from the image sensor the screen may return to the screen of . In the absence of a selection of the icons and within a predetermined time period the screen may return to the screen of .

The first icon may display image data obtained by applying no effect to the image data obtained from the image sensor . The other icons and may display images that are obtained by processing image data obtained from the image sensor with various filters. The icons and may display image data obtained by applying effects to the image data obtained from the image sensor respectively. For example the second icon may display image data obtained by applying RED effect to the image data obtained from the image sensor . As another example the third icon may display image data obtained by applying GREEN effect to the image data obtained from the image sensor .

The first icon may display a label containing the word ORIGINAL indicating that the image of this icon is an unfiltered version of the image data that is obtained from the image sensor . The other icons and may display labels identifying the button s respective effects or filters and indicating effects respectively. As noted above the respective filter of a given icon is a filter which may be used to generate the image of that icon.

The icons are scrollable. If the user performs a flick gesture on the icons those icons may be scrolled to the left of the screen and replaced with new icons and as seen on a screen of . If the user selects the second icon in the screen of the image data obtained from the image sensor may be processed by using the filter corresponding to the second icon to produce resultant image data and the resultant image data may be displayed in the image pane . As illustrated in in this example the second button is associated with a sketch effect filter.

The second icon may be selected by any suitable user gesture. A user s gesture of selecting an icon may be a touch hovering a single touch a double tap a drag and drop flicking and the like. For instance the user may select the second icon if the user touches and flicks the second icon towards point in the image pane 

Referring to a selected icon may display a check box indicating to indicate that it has been selected. If the user touches the check box the selection of the icon may be released. If the user touches and flicks the region displaying the image data obtained from the image sensor to the selected icon the selection of the icon may be released. If the selection of the icon is released the check box may disappear. If the selection of the icon is released the sketch effect applied to the image displayed in the image pane is removed. If the selection of the icon is released the image pane may display image data obtained from the image sensor without modifying that data first with one of the filters corresponding to icons . Additionally or alternatively in some implementations if the user touches the aforementioned first icon the selection of the icon may also be released.

Referring to if a plurality of different icons are selected a screen may display in the image page image data obtained by applying multiple effects to the image data obtained from the image sensor . For instance if the second icon and the fifth icon are selected the image pane may display image data obtained by applying a sketch effect and a monochromatic effect to the image data obtained from the image sensor .

Referring to if one icon is selected many times a screen may display image data obtained by applying to image data obtained from the image sensor an effect corresponding to the selected icon as many times as the icon is selected. For instance if the second icon is selected once and the fifth icon is selected three times e.g. by tapping three times on the icon the image pane may display resultant image data obtained by applying a sketch effect once and applying a monochromatic effect three times to image data obtained from the image sensor . The selected second icon and fifth icon may display numerals 1 and 3 which indicate the number of times the second icon and the fifth icon have been selected respectively. The once selected second icon may display only a check box and or the numeral 1 . If the user touches a check box of the fifth icon once the screen may change the numeral 3 displayed in the fifth icon into 2 thereby causing the image pane to display resultant image data that is obtained by applying the filter corresponding to icon sketch effect filter once and by applying the filter corresponding to the icon monochromatic filter twice. In that regard each of the icons may include user interface components for increasing and or decreasing the number of times a filter corresponding to that icon is to be applied.

Referring to a screen is shown in which the number of times icons have been selected is indicated by dashes and superimposed on the icons images rather than numerals.

Referring to an example of a screen is shown. In this example icons whose corresponding effects are incompatible with the effects of selected icons are disabled. As illustrated in this example icon is selected and icons and are disabled while icons and are permitted to remain active. As noted above in some implementations two effects or filters corresponding to the effects are considered compatible when they are mutually synthesizable. Additionally or alternatively two effects or filters corresponding to the effects are considered incompatible when they are not mutually synthesizable.

Referring to an example of a screen is shown in which if a snap image is acquired. When a snap image is acquired the images displayed in image pane and icons and stop being refreshed periodically and are transitioned into a state in which they display only the acquired e.g. snapped image. As illustrated the icons may display the acquired image as modified by applying multiple effects. For instance if the camera button is pressed in the screen of the screen may obtain a snap image and may apply the group of effects i.e. sketch effect level and monochromatic effect level corresponding to selected icons to the snap image.

In some implementations the content of one of the icons may vary in dependence on what other icons have been selected. For example the screen may display an icon whose content is based on the identified group of effects discussed with respect to . More specifically in some instances the icon may display image data obtained by applying the grouped effects to the image data obtained from the image sensor . Additionally or alternatively in some implementations the icon may display information indicating the name of two or more of the effects that are applied to image s obtained from the image sensor and or the number of times each of the effects is applied.

Additionally or alternatively in some instances the locations in the screen where an icon is displayed may be changeable in response to user input. For instance if the user touches and drags the second icon between the fourth icon and the fifth icon and then releases the drag the second icon may be moved between the fourth icon and the fifth icon . Additionally or alternatively the user may move an icon further towards the center of the image pane in the same manner. Additionally or alternatively the position of at least one of the icons and in the screen may be determined automatically. For instance an icon of high selection frequency may be arranged in a location favorable for a user s access. In some implementations icons whose respective filters tend to be selected more frequently than the filters of other displayed icons may be displayed in an upper portion of the screen while the other icons are displayed at a lower portion of the screen . Furthermore in some implementations an icon may be rendered unscrollable based on the frequency with which the filter of the icon is selected exceeding a predetermined threshold thus resulting in the user being able to scroll other icons as discussed with respect to but not the icon whose filter s selection frequency has exceeded the threshold. Furthermore in some implementations icons of similar effects may be arranged in a group. For instance in the icon of RED effect the icon of GREEN effect and the icon of BLUE effect are all for adjusting a color sense and thus they may be arranged in a group e.g. by being placed next to each other . A criterion for determining a similarity of effects may be brightness chroma and the like.

Additionally or alternatively in some implementations the camera application may provide a filter addition function. Through the filter addition function a user may obtain a filter from an external such as a remote server. The filter may be obtained via a communications network connection e mail messenger a detachable external memory and or any other suitable method. The filter obtained from the external may be stored in a designated directory and may be commonly used by applications. The camera application may add an icon corresponding to the filter obtained from the external. This icon may display image data obtained by applying the effect of the filter to image data obtained from the image sensor .

Additionally or alternatively in some implementations a user may download a filter package file of an application type from a network and may install the filter package file. If the filter package file is installed a filter included in the filter package file may be stored in a designated directory such that applications may make common use of the filter. This filter may be automatically added to a filter list of the camera application and an icon corresponding to the added filter may be additionally displayed through the aforementioned scheme.

The above described embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented in hardware firmware or via the execution of software or computer code that may be stored in a recording medium such as a CD ROM a Digital Versatile Disc DVD a magnetic tape a RAM a floppy disk a hard disk or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and to be stored on a local recording medium so that the methods described herein may be rendered via such software that is stored on the recording medium using a general purpose computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein. Any of the functions and steps provided in the Figures may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of both and may be performed in whole or in part within the programmed instructions of a computer. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for .

While the disclosure has been shown and described with reference to certain preferred aspects thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

