---

title: Interface for accessing evolved multimedia broadcast multicast services (eMBMS) middleware services
abstract: A device provides, to another device, a start request for an evolved multimedia broadcast multicast services (eMBMS) session, and receives eMBMS session traffic from the other device based on the start request. The device determines track information from the eMBMS session traffic, and decodes the eMBMS session traffic into a format understood by the device. The device determines quality information associated with the eMBMS session traffic, and presents, for display, the decoded eMBMS session traffic, the track information, and the quality information associated with the eMBMS session traffic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09397848&OS=09397848&RS=09397848
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09397848
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140320
---
Evolved multimedia broadcast multicast services eMBMS include a point to multipoint PMP interface specification for existing and upcoming Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP cellular networks. eMBMS are designed to provide efficient delivery of broadcast and multicast services both within a cell as well as within a core network. For broadcast transmission across multiple cells eMBMS defines transmission via single frequency network configurations. Applications for eMBMS include mobile content e.g. television TV and radio broadcasting on user equipment UE as well as file delivery and emergency alerts for UEs.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Unique users accessing popular content e.g. via UE such as video and software updates may consume such content via unicast and may create multiple instances of the same content in a network. This may not be desirable due to network resources being inefficiently allocated for point to point traffic. eMBMS may broadcast such content on a controlled channel which may permit users to access the content with no difference in user experience while conserving network resources via delivery over eMBMS. This may be achieved by configuring an access network to form an eMBMS single frequency network MBSFN where multiple cells may transmit the same information with known network parameters schedule and service area for content delivery. A UE may utilize a multicast middleware MMW client for delivering eMBMS to the UE. However the MMW client may require an interface to applications of the UE so that the applications may utilize eMBMS.

As further shown in UE may include applications multicast middleware MMW and an application programming interface API between the applications and the MMW. The applications may include applications that enable the UE to receive live linear video multicasts download files receive service notifications and or alerts etc. via the eMBMS network components. The MMW may include facilitate communication between the applications and the eMBMS network components. For example the MMW may enable the applications to join live linear video multicasts schedule file downloads receive service notifications and or alerts consume segmented video streams compliant with dynamic adaptive streaming over hypertext transfer protocol HTTP DASH standards etc. The API may enable the MMW to perform functions e.g. registration authentication etc. that enable the applications to receive services from the eMBMS network components.

In some implementations the UE may establish an eMBMS session with the eMBMS network components via the base station so that the UE may request and receive a live video stream from the ASP. For example after establishing the eMBMS session an application e.g. a live football broadcast application of the UE may provide a request for the live video stream to the MMW of the UE via the API. The MMW may provide the request to the ASP via the base station and the eMBMS network components. The ASP may provide the live video stream to the eMBMS network components based on the request and the eMBMS network components may provide the live video stream to the MMW of the UE via the base station. The MMW may provide the live video stream to the application via the API and the application may display the live video stream to a user of the UE.

In some implementations the UE may establish the eMBMS session so that the UE may request and receive a file download from the content provider. For example after establishing the eMBMS session an application of the UE may provide a request for the file download to the MMW of the UE via the API. The MMW may provide the request to the content provider via the base station and the eMBMS network components. The content provider may provide the file download to the eMBMS network components based on the request and the eMBMS network components may provide the file download to the MMW of the UE via the base station. The MMW may provide the file download to the application via the API and the application may store and or execute the file download.

Systems and or methods described herein may provide an interface between a MMW of a UE and applications of the UE so that the applications may utilize eMBMS to receive content from ASPs and or content providers. The interface may enable developers to develop the MMW and or the applications for receiving content via the eMBMS network components. The systems and or methods may enable the MMW to deliver eMBMS to the UE and or the applications of the UE.

As used herein the term user is intended to be broadly interpreted to include a user device or a user of a user device. The term content as used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include video audio images software downloads and or combinations of video audio images and software downloads.

UE may include a device that is capable of communicating over network with base station BMSC BVPS ASP and or content provider . In some implementations UE may include a radiotelephone a personal communications services PCS terminal that may combine for example a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a laptop computer a tablet computer a global positioning system GPS device a gaming device or another type of computation and communication device. In some implementations UE may include applications MMW and an API provided between applications and MMW .

Applications may include applications that enable UE to receive audio and or video multicasts download files receive service notifications and or alerts etc. via BMSC and or BVPS . In some implementations each application may include an application a code snippet a script a widget etc. that may cause UE to perform one or more functions via BMSC and or BVPS .

MMW may facilitate communication between applications and BMSC and or BVPS . In some implementations MMW may enable applications to join audio and or video multicasts schedule file downloads receive service notifications and or alerts consume segmented video streams compliant with DASH standards etc. via BMSC and or BVPS . In some implementations MMW may provide applications with access to eMBMS without requiring applications to translate data received from the eMBMS via for example DASH the file delivery over unidirectional transport FLUTE protocol forward error correction FEC etc. In some implementations MMW may process data utilizing DASH the FLUTE protocol FEC etc. In some implementations MMW may interact with a modem of UE to enable an eMBMS service obtain network conditions efficiently use modem resources to minimize battery consumption via scheduling and service announcement management etc. In some implementations MMW may store reception reporting data e.g. live streaming data file delivery data file repair data etc. and provide analytics based on the data to BMSC e.g. for operations planning .

API may enable MMW to perform functions e.g. registration authentication verification event notifications service operations etc. that enable applications to receive multicast services from BMSC and or BVPS . For example API may enable applications and MMW to request starting a multicast service and to display e.g. to a user a service announcement e.g. a program guide available at a current location of UE . In another example API may enable applications and MMW to request starting a multicast service session and to consume content and or download a file. In some implementations API may enable MMW and or applications to perform the functions described below in connection with for example .

Base station may include one or more computation and communication devices that receive traffic from BMSC and or BVPS and transmit that traffic to UE . Base station may also include one or more devices that receive traffic from UE and transmit that traffic to BMSC and or BVPS or to other UEs . Base station may combine the functionalities of a base station and a radio network controller RNC in 2G or 3G radio access networks.

BMSC may include one or more personal computers one or more workstation computers one or more server devices one or more virtual machines VMs provided in a cloud computing network or one or more other types of computation and communication devices. In some implementations BMSC may provide content e.g. a video stream an audio stream a file etc. from ASP and or content provider to UE via an eMBMS session. In some implementations BMSC may reserve bandwidth at an event location e.g. at a location associated with base station before the event begins and may receive live data e.g. multimedia data from ASP when the event begins. BMSC may broadcast the live data to UE at the event location when UE requests the live data and may terminate the broadcast of the live data after a predetermined time period e.g. after the event ends .

BVPS may include one or more personal computers one or more workstation computers one or more server devices one or more VMs provided in a cloud computing network or one or more other types of computation and communication devices. In some implementations BVPS may provide content e.g. a video stream an audio stream a file etc. from ASP and or content provider to UE via an eMBMS session. In some implementations BVPS may include a centralized system that is responsible for communicating eMBMS session information with BMSC ASP and content provider . BVPS may utilize appropriate interfaces and parameters to seamlessly create broadcast sessions with minimal impact to network traffic and while optimizing a user s quality of experience.

ASP may include one or more personal computers one or more workstation computers one or more server devices one or more VMs provided in a cloud computing network or one or more other types of computation and communication devices. In some implementations ASP may provide content e.g. a video stream an audio stream a file etc. to UE via an eMBMS session established by BMSC and or BVPS . In some implementations ASP may provide a service such as multimedia broadcasts to users e.g. UE over a network such as network . In implementations ASP may provide information associated with an event to BVPS and may instruct a live event device e.g. a video camera to provide the live event data to BMSC for a predetermined time period e.g. while a football game is being played .

Content provider may include one or more personal computers one or more workstation computers one or more server devices one or more VMs provided in a cloud computing network or one or more other types of computation and communication devices. In some implementations content provider may provide content e.g. a video stream an audio stream a file etc. to UE via an eMBMS session established by BMSC and or BVPS . In some implementations content provider may include a computer system an application a cable head end a data warehouse and or a broadcasting device capable of providing video content e.g. video on demand VOD content high definition HD VOD content television programming movies on demand services live television etc. in a variety of formats audio content in a variety of formats commercials advertisements instructions recommendations promotions web based content e.g. streaming content from web sites and or other information.

Network may include a network such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a telephone network such as the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or a cellular network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic network a satellite network a cloud computing network or a combination of networks.

In some implementations network may include a fourth generation 4G cellular network that includes an evolved packet system EPS . The EPS may include a radio access network e.g. referred to as a long term evolution LTE network a wireless core network e.g. referred to as an evolved packet core EPC network an Internet protocol IP multimedia subsystem IMS network and a packet data network PDN . The LTE network may be referred to as an evolved universal terrestrial radio access network E UTRAN . The EPC network may include an all IP packet switched core network that supports high speed wireless and wireline broadband access technologies. The EPC network may allow UEs to access various services by connecting to the LTE network an evolved high rate packet data eHRPD radio access network RAN and or a wireless local area network WLAN RAN. The IMS network may include an architectural framework or network e.g. a telecommunications network for delivering IP multimedia services. The PDN may include a communications network that is based on packet switching.

The number of devices and or networks shown in is provided as an example. In practice there may be additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than those shown in . Furthermore two or more devices shown in may be implemented within a single device or a single device shown in may be implemented as multiple distributed devices. Additionally one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more devices of environment .

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit a graphics processing unit an accelerated processing unit etc. a microprocessor and or any processing component e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. that interprets and or executes instructions and or that is designed to implement a particular function. In some implementations processor may include multiple processor cores for parallel computing. Memory may include a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and or another type of dynamic or static storage component e.g. a flash magnetic or optical memory that stores information and or instructions for use by processor .

Input component may include a component that permits a user to input information to device e.g. a touch screen display a keyboard a keypad a mouse a button a switch etc. . Output component may include a component that outputs information from device e.g. a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc. .

Communication interface may include a transceiver like component such as a transceiver and or a separate receiver and transmitter which enables device to communicate with other devices such as via a wired connection a wireless connection or a combination of wired and wireless connections. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface an infrared interface a radio frequency RF interface a universal serial bus USB interface a high definition multimedia interface HDMI or the like.

Device may perform various operations described herein. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions included in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium is defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device includes memory space within a single physical storage device or memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.

Software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . When executed software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform one or more processes described herein. Additionally or alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The number of components shown in is provided as an example. In practice device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than those shown in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of device may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more components of device .

As shown in process may include receiving an eMBMS application from a device block . For example a user may cause UE to provide a request for an eMBMS application to ASP and or content provider . In some implementations the eMBMS application may include one of applications a code snippet a script a widget etc. that may enable UE to perform one or more functions. For example the eMBMS application may enable UE to establish an eMBMS session with BMSC and or BVPS and receive content from ASP and or content provider via the eMBMS session. In some implementations the user may cause UE to access the eMBMS application e.g. from ASP and or content provider via for example a user interface such as a browser or in another manner. The user may then select using UE information regarding the eMBMS application from the user interface to cause UE to provide a request for the eMBMS application to ASP and or content provider . In some implementations UE may receive the eMBMS application from ASP and or content provider and may store the eMBMS application in a memory associated with UE e.g. memory . In some implementations the user of UE may establish an account associated with the eMBMS application prior to or after receiving the eMBMS application.

As further shown in process may include executing the eMBMS application block . For example the user may instruct UE to execute the eMBMS application and UE may execute the eMBMS application based on the user s instruction. In some implementations UE may automatically execute the eMBMS application when the eMBMS application is received by UE . In some implementations when the eMBMS application is executed the eMBMS application may require the user to agree to terms and conditions of the eMBMS application and may cause MMW to be initialized. When MMW is initialized BMSC may add a uniform resource locator URL associated with ASP or content provider e.g. from which the eMBMS application is received to a URL list in a configuration file. In some implementations the configuration file may include a set of configuration parameters for the eMBMS application and information describing eMBMS transport needed for UE to receive a service discovery channel SDCH . MMW may receive the configuration file and the URL list from BMSC and may store the configuration file and the URL list.

As further shown in process may include generating a registration request for the eMBMS application block . For example the eMBMS application may generate a registration request for the eMBMS application and may provide the registration request to MMW . In some implementations the eMBMS application may authenticate with ASP or content provider e.g. from which the eMBMS application is received prior to generating the registration request. In some implementations the registration request may include a service class requested by the eMBMS application the URL associated with ASP or content provider etc.

As further shown in process may include verifying the authentication of the eMBMS application based on the registration request block . For example MMW may verify the authentication of the eMBMS application based on the registration request received from the eMBMS application. In some implementations MMW may compare the URL associated with ASP or content provider with the URLs provided in the URL list received from the BMSC . If the URL associated with ASP or content provider does not match a URL provided in the URL list MMW may determine that the eMBMS application is not authenticated. If the URL associated with ASP or content provider matches a URL provided in the URL list MMW may conduct a signature verification with ASP or content provider by providing a signature of the eMBMS application to ASP or content provider . ASP or content provider may compare the signature of the eMBMS application with a signature stored by ASP or content provider . If the signatures do not match ASP or content provider may return a failure notification and MMW may determine that the eMBMS application is not authenticated. If the signatures match ASP or content provider may return a success notification and MMW may determine that the eMBMS application is authenticated.

As further shown in process may include determining a registration success or failure of the eMBMS application based on the verification block . For example MMW may determine whether the registration of the eMBMS application is a success or a failure based on the verification of the authentication of the eMBMS application. In some implementations if MMW determines that the eMBMS application is authenticated MMW may determine that the registration of the eMBMS application is a success. In some implementations if MMW determines that the eMBMS application is not authenticated MMW may determine that the registration of the eMBMS application is a failure. In some implementations if the registration of the eMBMS application is a success MMW may associate the service class with the eMBMS application.

As further shown in process may include generating a start eMBMS service request block . For example if the registration of the eMBMS application is a success the eMBMS application may generate a start eMBMS service request and may provide the start eMBMS service request to MMW . In some implementations the start eMBMS service request may include a request to receive content from ASP and or content provider via an eMBMS session generated by BMSC and or BVPS . In some implementations MMW may only accept start eMBMS service requests from applications that are successfully registered as described above. In such implementations MMW may reuse the authentication verification without making unnecessary connections with ASP which may result from possible application malfunctions and attacks. MMW may utilize a reregister interval timer to mitigate an impact from possible rogue application attacks such as issuing a flood of API calls alternating between registration and deregistration.

As further shown in process may include determining whether the eMBMS service is available based on the start eMBMS service request block . For example MMW may determine whether the eMBMS service is available based on the start eMBMS service request. In some implementations MMW may instruct a modem manager of UE to acquire service announcement information and available service session information e.g. from ASP or content provider before providing a service session list to the eMBMS application. In some implementations. MMW may determine whether the eMBMS service is available based on the service announcement information and the available service session information e.g. received from ASP or content provider .

As further shown in process may include displaying information associated with the eMBMS service block . For example MMW may cause UE e.g. the eMBMS application to display information indicating whether the eMBMS service is available or unavailable. In some implementations MMW may cause UE to display the service announcement information and the available service session information e.g. which may indicate whether the eMBMS service is available or unavailable . In some implementations MMW may provide a start eMBMS service response e.g. indicating whether the eMBMS service is available or unavailable to the eMBMS application and the eMBMS application may cause UE to display the start eMBMS service response.

In some implementations the eMBMS application e.g. application may be in an inactive state when the eMBMS application has successfully registered with MMW . The eMBMS application may be in an active state when the eMBMS application has successfully registered with MMW and has successfully started an eMBMS service with MMW .

In some implementations a registered application may no longer be running in memory e.g. due to application failing or being uninstalled by the user without having a chance to notify MMW . MMW may check whether application still remains in memory every time when a re joining timer expires. If MMW determines that application is no longer in memory MMW may change a registration status of application to non registered and may disable the re joining timer when no application is registered.

In some implementations after receiving a start eMBMS service request from application MMW may provide application with a service session list that includes available stream sessions according to a service area identity SAI list and an announced file download session on all bands. Each session entry of the service session list may include a session service class a service identifier a service title a schedule associated media presentation description MPD URLs e.g. for a stream etc. In some implementations each service identifier of a session entry may represent either a single stream session or a group of file delivery sessions. Each file delivery session may be identified by a unique file uniform resource identifier URI specified in the schedule. A session entry may use the file URI to identify each file delivery service. API may provide a method for application to select or deselect the stream and or file sessions. In some implementations MMW may dynamically update active application s with an updated service session list while receiving an in band MPD a schedule an updated SAI list etc. as UE moves into a new cell.

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

Application may perform an authentication with ASP for a unicast service provided by ASP as indicated by reference number . As further shown in application may provide a registration request to MMW . Registration request may include a service class requested by application a URL associated with ASP and a storage location of application . MMW may obtain from application application signatures and or identifiers based on registration request as indicated by reference number . MMW may verify an availability of the service class based on registration request as indicated by reference number and may verify the authentication of application with ASP as indicated by reference number . If MMW verifies the authentication of application with ASP . MMW may associate the service class with application as indicated by reference number and may provide a registration response to application . Registration response may include information indicating whether application is authenticated.

As shown in if MMW verifies the authentication of application with ASP application may provide a start eMBMS service request to MMW . Request may include a request to start an eMBMS service e.g. live streaming video . MMW may perform a bootstrap procedure with ASP to obtain service announcement information from ASP as indicated by reference number . MMW may process the service announcement information may acquire available service sessions from ASP and may set a periodic rejoining timer as indicated by reference number in . MMW may determine whether the eMBMS service is available based on start eMBMS service request . In some implementations MMW may determine whether the eMBMS service is available based on the service announcement information and the available service session information e.g. received from ASP .

As further shown in MMW may provide a start eMBMS service response to application . Start eMBMS service response may include information indicating whether the eMBMS service is available or unavailable for application . In some implementations if the eMBMS service is unavailable response may include a reason that the eMBMS service is unavailable such as being outside of eMBMS service coverage e.g. when UE is outside of a service area entering the eMBMS service coverage e.g. when UE enters a service area from a non service area the service session being unavailable e.g. when UE moves to an area where a current session is unavailable poor signal and service quality e.g. when a calculated service quality is lower than that required being unable to start a session e.g. when MMW is unable to locate a requested temporary mobile group identity TMGI registration being expired e.g. when application requests services after application deregistered and or being unable to allocate a resource e.g. when MMW is unable to process a requested service due to insufficient resources .

As further shown in if the eMBMS service is available MMW may provide a service update message to application . Service update message may include an identifier a name a schedule URLs availability etc. associated with the eMBMS service. Application may cause UE to display information provided in start eMBMS service response e.g. the service information as indicated by reference number . Application may utilize the eMBMS service over time and eventually may want to deregister from the service class associated with the eMBMS service as indicated by reference number . Application may provide a deregister request e.g. identifying the service class to MMW and MMW may disassociate the service class from application based on deregister request and as indicated by reference number . MMW may provide a deregister response e.g. indicating whether deregistering the service class is a success or a failure to application . If deregistering the service class is a success application may be disassociated from the service class.

In some implementations MMW may handle receipt an application re registration request without receiving a deregister request by comparing a previous set of identities associated with application e.g. a name an identifier a service class an ASP URL a signature etc. associated with application to verify that application is the same application that previously passed the authentication verification process. If MMW verifies that application previously passed the authentication verification process MMW may re register application without conducting signature verification with ASP .

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

As shown in process may include providing a start request for an eMBMS stream session to a device block . For example assume that a user utilizes UE to execute application and that application causes UE to receive content e.g. a live video stream of a football game via an eMBMS session with BMSC and or BVPS . In some implementations when application executes application may generate a start request for an eMBMS stream session and may provide the start request to MMW . MMW may receive the start request and may utilize the start request to request the eMBMS stream session from ASP via BMSC and or BVPS . In some implementations MMW may provide the start request for the eMBMS stream session to ASP via BMSC and or BVPS . In some implementations MMW may instruct a modem of UE to prepare the eMBMS stream session based on the start request.

As further shown in process may include receiving eMBMS session traffic from the device based on the start request for the eMBMS stream session block . For example ASP via BMSC and or BVPS may deliver the SDCH and the eMBMS stream session on bearers and MMW may receive eMBMS session traffic e.g. the live video stream of the football game from the bearers based on the start request. In some implementations MMW may receive FLUTE source and repair packets for the eMBMS session traffic and may perform FEC decoding of the eMBMS session traffic. In some implementations MMW may provide to application a response to the start request. The response may include an identifier associated with the eMBMS session a status of the eMBMS session traffic etc.

As further shown in process may include receiving track information from the eMBMS session traffic and initializing a decoder block . For example a media player e.g. a video player of UE may receive track information from the eMBMS session traffic e.g. track information associated with live video stream of the football game and may initialize a decoder of UE . In some implementations application may select a corresponding MPD URL for the eMBMS session traffic and may create a media presentation MP prior to the media player receiving the track information and initializing the decoder. In such implementations application may provide the MPD URL to a DASH client of UE may start the MP and may execute the DASH client. The executing DASH client may receive the MPD from MMW and the media player may receive the track information from the DASH client.

As further shown in process may include decoding the eMBMS session traffic with the decoder block . For example the decoder of UE may decode the eMBMS session traffic e.g. the live video stream of the football game . In some implementations the decoder may include a component e.g. a hardware accelerator that decodes the eMBMS session traffic from a format provided by ASP to a format that is understood by the media player of UE . In some implementations the DASH client may receive the eMBMS session traffic from MMW and may provide the eMBMS session traffic to the decoder so that the decoder may decode the eMBMS session traffic.

As further shown in process may include displaying the decoded eMBMS session traffic block . For example the decoder of UE may provide the decoded eMBMS session traffic e.g. a decoded video stream a decoded audio stream etc. to the media player of UE and the media player may cause UE to display the decoded eMBMS session traffic and the track information to the user. For example the media player may cause UE to display the live video stream of the football game to the user. In some implementations the media player may enable the user to start stop rewind etc. the live video stream of the football game.

As further shown in process may include receiving periodic quality information associated with the eMBMS session traffic block . For example as UE is displaying the eMBMS session traffic e.g. the live video stream of football game to the user MMW may provide periodic quality information associated with the live video stream to application and application may cause UE to display the quality information. In some implementations to improve the user experience when UE displays the eMBMS session traffic MMW may provide to application a service quality indication SQI based on a generated FEC failure rate associated with the eMBMS session traffic. In some implementations the SQI may include a binary value that indicates either good service quality or bad service quality. The binary value assigned to the SQI may be determined based on a comparison of the FEC failure rate and a particular threshold. In some implementations the good service quality value may be generated by MMW when the FEC failure rate is less than or equal to the particular threshold and the bad service quality value may be generated by MMW when the FEC failure rate is greater than the particular threshold. For example if the FEC failure rate is 20 and the particular threshold is 40 MMW may provide the good service quality value to application . However if the FEC failure rate increases to 50 MMW may provide the bad service quality value to application .

In some implementations MMW may notify application when the FEC failure rate is greater than a bad service presentation threshold for a particular time period e.g. defined by a time period associated with bad service presentation hysteresis . In some implementations the bad service presentation threshold T may be defined as a percentage and the bad service presentation hysteresis H may be defined as a number of consecutive FEC failure rate time periods. For example if T is 75 and H is three MMW may notify application if the FEC failure rate in each of three time periods is greater than T e.g. when the FEC failure rate is 80 100 and 80 for the three time periods .

As further shown in process may include generating a stop request for the eMBMS session block . For example the user of UE may eventually wish to stop receiving the eMBMS session traffic e.g. the live video stream of the football game or transmission of the eMBMS session traffic e.g. the broadcast of the football game may end. In some implementations the user may instruct application to stop the eMBMS session. In some implementations application may decide to stop the eMBMS session e.g. when the football game ends . Based on the decision to stop the eMBMS session application may generate a stop request for the eMBMS session and may provide the stop request to MMW . MMW may receive the stop request and may provide the stop request to the modem of UE . In some implementations the stop request may include an identifier associated with the eMBMS session.

As further shown in process may include stopping receipt of the eMBMS session traffic and the periodic quality information based on the stop request block . For example based on the stop request MMW and the modem of UE may stop receiving the eMBMS session traffic from ASP . In some implementations based on the stop request MMW may stop determining the periodic quality information associated with the eMBMS session traffic and may stop providing the periodic quality information to application . In some implementations application may release the MP and may instruct the DASH client to stop executing. In some implementations MMW may provide a stop response to application . The stop response may include the identifier associated with the eMBMS session and information identifying a status of the stop request e.g. successfully completed or failed .

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

As further shown in assume that the user selects application as indicated by reference number . Selection of application may cause application to execute and the executing application may provide a start request for an eMBMS stream session to MMW . MMW may receive start request and may utilize start request to request the eMBMS stream session from ASP via BMSC and or BVPS . ASP may deliver the SDCH and the eMBMS stream session on bearers via BMSC and or BVPS and as indicated by reference number . MMW may receive the live streaming video of the concert from the bearers may receive FLUTE source and repair packets for the live streaming video and may perform FEC decoding of the live streaming video as indicated by reference number . MMW may provide to application a response to start request . Response may include an identifier associated with the eMBMS session and a status of the live streaming video of the concert.

As further shown in application may select a corresponding MPD URL for the live streaming video of the concert may create a MP may provide the MPD URL to DASH client may start the MP and may execute DASH client based on response and as indicated by reference number . Application may cause UE to display a blank screen or a backsplash screen based on response and as indicated by reference number . DASH client and MMW may perform a HTTP GET MPD process . During process MMW may extract different types of DASH files e.g. the MPD file that are FLUTE protected by FEC and may store the MPD file. DASH client may request the MPD file during process and MMW may provide the MPD file to DASH client based on the request. DASH client and MMW may perform a HTTP GET initialization segments IS process . During process MMW may receive initialization segments of the live streaming video of the concert and may convert the initialization segments into a format understood by DASH client e.g. a binary format . DASH client may request the initialization segments during process and MMW may provide the converted initialization segments to DASH client based on the request.

As further shown in DASH client and or media player may receive track information associated with the live streaming video of the concert and may initialize a decoder of UE as indicated by reference number . If DASH client receives the track information media player may obtain the track information from DASH client . DASH client may receive data e.g. metadata associated with the live streaming video of the concert and media player may obtain the data from DASH client as indicated by reference number . DASH client and MMW may perform a HTTP GET media segments MS process . During process MMW may receive media segments of the live streaming video of the concert and may store the media segments. DASH client may request the media segments during process and MMW may provide the media segments to DASH client based on the request. As the media segments are received media player may begin displaying the media segments e.g. the live streaming video of the concert as indicated by reference number .

As media player is displaying the live streaming video of the concert MMW may provide a periodic service quality indication associated with the live streaming video of the concert to application . Service quality indication may include an indication of good service quality or bad service quality for the live streaming video of the concert. As further shown in assume that the user of UE decides to stop using application e.g. stop viewing the live streaming video of the concert and that application stops the eMBMS session as indicated by reference number . When application stops the eMBMS session application may generate a stop request for the eMBMS session and may provide stop request to MMW . Application may release the MP and may instruct DASH client to stop executing as indicated by reference number .

As further shown in based on stop request MMW may stop receiving the live streaming video of the concert from ASP and may stop providing service quality indication to application as indicated by reference number . MMW may provide to application a stop response that includes information identifying a status of stop request e.g. successfully completed or failed .

As indicated above is provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

As shown in process may include providing a start request for an eMBMS file download to a device block . For example assume that a user utilizes UE to execute application and that application causes UE to request a file download e.g. of a software file a video file an audio file etc. from content provider via an eMBMS session with BMSC and or BVPS . In some implementations when application executes application may generate a start request for an eMBMS file download and may provide the start request to MMW . MMW may receive the start request and may utilize the start request to request the eMBMS file download from content provider via BMSC and or BVPS . In some implementations MMW may provide the start request for the eMBMS file download to content provider via BMSC and or BVPS .

As further shown in process may include setting a timer for the eMBMS file download block . For example based on the start request MMW may set a timer for the eMBMS file download and may verify whether an eMBMS session is available for downloading the file. In some implementations the timer may be set by the user and or application . In some implementations the timer may include a value in seconds minutes hours days etc. For example assume that at 10 00 PM the user wants to download a movie and that the user indicates e.g. to application that the movie should be available by 7 00 AM the next morning. In such an example timer may be set to less than nine 9 hours e.g. to account for downloading time so that the movie is ready to view by 7 00 AM. In some implementations MMW may provide to application a response to the start request. The response may include an identifier associated with the eMBMS session a status of the start request e.g. successfully scheduled etc.

As further shown in process may include determining whether the timer has expired block . For example MMW may determine whether the timer for the eMBMS file download has expired. In some implementations MMW may periodically determine whether the timer has expired. In some implementations the timer may alert MMW when the timer is about to or has expired. For example if the timer is set to eight 8 hours at 10 00 PM the timer may alert MMW that the timer has expired at 6 00 AM the next day.

As further shown in if the timer has expired block NO process may return to process block . For example if MMW determines that the timer for the eMBMS file download has not expired. MMW may wait a period of time before checking again whether the timer has expired. In some implementations MMW may determine that the timer has not expired when MMW does not receive an alert from the timer. For example if the timer is set to seven 7 hours at 11 00 PM MMW may determine that the timer has not expired at 4 00 AM the next day since MMW may not receive an alert from the timer until 6 00 AM the next day.

As further shown in if the timer has expired block YES process may include receiving the file from the device via eMBMS block . For example if MMW determines that the timer for the eMBMS file download has expired MMW may begin downloading the file from content provider via BMSC and or BVPS . In some implementations MMW may determine that the timer has expired when MMW receives an alert from the timer. In some implementations MMW may begin downloading the file from content provider before the timer expires e.g. during non busy times .

As further shown in process may include decoding and or repairing the file block . For example MMW may perform FEC decoding of the file to repair any missed packets during the download of the file from content provider . In some implementations MMW may receive FLUTE source and repair packets for the file in order to repair any missed packets. In some implementations if no packets are missed during the download of the file from content provider MMW may not decode and or repair the file.

As further shown in process may include storing the file block . For example MMW may cause UE to store the file in memory e.g. memory . In some implementations if MMW decodes and or repairs the file during the download MMW may cause UE to store the decoded and or repaired file in memory. In some implementations UE may store the file in memory and may replace the file with the decoded and or repaired file.

As further shown in process may include generating a notification associated with the file download block . For example MMW may generate a notification associated with the file download. In some implementations if the file does not need to be repaired the notification may include information indicating that the file download is complete an identifier associated with the eMBMS session used to download the file etc. In some implementations if the file is successfully repaired the notification may include information indicating that the file download is complete the identifier associated with the eMBMS session used to download the file etc. In some implementations if the file is unsuccessfully repaired e.g. if the file is missing a number of packets greater than a particular threshold the notification may include information indicating that the file download failed. In some implementations if the file download failed MMW may attempt to download the file a particular number of times. In some implementations MMW may provide the notification to application . In some implementations MMW may provide the notification to BMSC e.g. in the form of a report .

As further shown in process may include displaying the notification block . For example application may cause UE to display the notification to the user. In some implementations application may cause UE to display information indicating that the file download is complete and or successful. In some implementations application may cause UE to display information indicating that the file download failed.

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

Based on start request MMW may verify that an eMBMS session is available to download the software file and may set a timer for scheduling the download of the software file as indicated by reference number . MMW may provide to application a response to start request . Response may include an identifier associated with the eMBMS session and a status of the download of the software file. When the timer expires MMW may wake up for the download of the software file as indicated by reference number in . MMW may download the software file from content provider may perform FEC decoding of the software file and may store the software file as indicated by reference number . Application may be in an active mode e.g. utilizing other eMBMS sessions or in an idle mode e.g. stopped when MMW downloads the software file as indicated by reference number .

In some implementations if the software file does not need to be repaired MMW may determine that a notification associated with the download of the software file is to be provided to application as indicated by reference number . In such implementations MMW may provide to application a notification indicating that the download of the software file is complete and successful. In some implementations if the software file is missing a number of packets greater than a threshold MMW may determine that another notification associated with the download of the software file is to be provided to application as indicated by reference number . In such implementations MMW may provide to application a notification indicating that the download of the software file failed. In some implementations if the software file needs to be repaired MMW may repair the software file store the repaired software file and determine that a notification associated with the download of the software file is to be provided to application as indicated by reference number . In such implementations MMW may provide to application a notification indicating that the download of the software file is complete and successful.

As further shown in application may notify the user of UE that the download of the software file is complete as indicated by reference number . MMW may provide a file download report e.g. indicating whether the download of the software file was a success or a failure to BMSC as indicated by reference number .

As indicated above is provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

As further shown in service quality and coverage for UE may include a second case scenario associated with out of session coverage for UE . Assume that UE initially is experiencing session coverage e.g. with BMSC and or BVPS and that MMW provides to application a service quality indication indicating that the service quality for UE is good. Now assume that MMW determines that there is no temporary mobile group identity TMGI on a serving band provided by BMSC and or BVPS as indicated by reference number . MMW may determine that the TMGI is missing for longer than a particular duration e.g. an out session hysteresis as indicated by reference number . Based on these determinations MMW may provide to application a notification indicating that UE is out of session coverage from BMSC and or BVPS . MMW may also provide to application a service quality indication indicating that the service quality for UE is bad.

As further shown in service quality and coverage for UE may include a third case scenario associated with out of eMBMS service coverage for UE . Assume that UE initially is experiencing eMBMS service coverage e.g. with BMSC and or BVPS and that MMW provides to application a service quality indication indicating that the service quality for UE is good. Now assume that MMW determines that there is no eMBMS system information block SIB message on the serving band provided by BMSC and or BVPS as indicated by reference number . MMW may determine that UE is missing eMBMS service for longer than a particular duration e.g. an out MBMS hysteresis as indicated by reference number . Based on these determinations MMW may provide to application a notification indicating that UE is out of eMBMS service coverage from BMSC and or BVPS . MMW may also provide to application a service quality indication indicating that the service quality for UE is bad.

In some implementations due to UE mobility multiple application notifications may be generated concurrently by MMW . For example if UE is moving out of eMBMS coverage while utilizing a service session two notifications e.g. a session unavailable notification and an out of eMBMS service area notification may be generated by MMW at the same time. In some implementations MMW may provide to application a higher priority notification and may discard lower priority notification s . In some implementations MMW may assign a highest priority to an out of eMBMS service coverage notification a next highest priority to a service session unavailable notification and a lowest priority to a bad service presentation notification. In some implementations MMW may assign different priorities to notifications or may not assign any priorities to notifications.

As indicated above is provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

MMW may wait for a serving frequency band switch for a particular time period as indicated by reference number . In some implementations if the particular time period expires MMW may determine that a notification associated with the eMBMS service is to be provided to application as further indicated by reference number . In such implementations MMW may provide to application a start eMBMS service response e.g. indicating a failure and a notification indicating that UE is outside of eMBMS service coverage.

In some implementations if the particular time period does not expire MMW may continue trying to establish the eMBMS service as indicated by reference number . MMW may switch to a serving frequency band carrying the eMBMS service as indicated by reference number and may stop the timer as indicated by reference number . MMW may acquire the SA and the TMGI for the eMBMS service from BMSC and or BVPS as indicated by reference number . In such implementations MMW may provide to application a start eMBMS service response e.g. indicating a success and a service update that includes information associated with the eMBMS service e.g. a service identifier a name a schedule MPD URLs availability etc. .

As indicated above is provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

As further shown in application may accept the call and may push the eMBMS session to the background as indicated by reference number . Application may instruct MMW to set a priority for the eMBMS session to low as indicated by reference number and MMW may set the priority for the eMBMS session to unicast based on the instructions as indicated by reference number . MMW may provide an eMBMS interest indication message e.g. indicating a low and unicast priority for the eMBMS session to BMSC and or BVPS as indicated by reference number . MMW may provide to application an acknowledgement of setting the priority for the eMBMS session to low and unicast.

As further shown in BMSC and or BVPS may conduct a network policy to prioritize the call for UE as indicated by reference number . MMW may receive source and repair packets for the eMBMS session e.g. from BMSC and or BVPS and may reassemble source blocks for the eMBMS session with the packets as indicated by reference number . MMW may determine that the FEC failure rate for the eMBMS session is above the threshold as indicated by reference number . Based on this determination MMW may provide to application a service quality indication indicating that the service quality for UE is good or bad.

As indicated above is provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

To the extent the aforementioned implementations collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

A component is intended to be broadly construed as hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software.

User interfaces may include graphical user interfaces GUIs and or non graphical user interfaces such as text based interfaces. The user interfaces may provide information to users via customized interfaces e.g. proprietary interfaces and or other types of interfaces e.g. browser based interfaces etc. . The user interfaces may receive user inputs via one or more input devices may be user configurable e.g. a user may change the sizes of the user interfaces information displayed in the user interfaces color schemes used by the user interfaces positions of text images icons windows etc. in the user interfaces etc. and or may not be user configurable. Information associated with the user interfaces may be selected and or manipulated by a user e.g. via a touch screen display a mouse a keyboard a keypad voice commands etc. .

It will be apparent that systems and or methods as described herein may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and or methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and or methods based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim the disclosure of possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the articles a and an are intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Furthermore as used herein the term set is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Also as used herein the terms has have having or the like are intended to be open ended terms. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

