---

title: Call intercept methods, such as for customer self-support on a mobile device
abstract: A method for intercepting calls from a remote or mobile device for customer self-support detects when users or subscribers dial one or more predetermined numbers. If the number corresponds to one of the predetermined numbers (such as a customer support number), the phone may intercept the call and display a list of potential solutions to the subscriber's problems. Various other features and embodiments art disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09301128&OS=09301128&RS=09301128
owner: Nuance Communications, Inc.
number: 09301128
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140519
---
This is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 269 970 filed Oct. 10 2011 which is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 720 624 filed Mar. 9 2010 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 765 387 filed Jun. 19 2007 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 063 663 filed Feb. 22 2005 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 546 687 filed Feb. 20 2004 entitled CALL INTERCEPT METHODS FOR CUSTOMER SELF SUPPORT AND METHODS FOR NAVIGATING DATA SCREENS U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 590 152 filed Jul. 21 2004 entitled MOBILE DEVICE ASSISTANCE MOBILE DEVICE MANAGEMENT AND CALL INTERCEPTOR FOR MOBILE DEVICES U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 611 607 filed Sep. 21 2004 entitled SECURE MOBILE DEVICE SOFTWARE EXECUTION HELP SUPPORT CARE INITIATION FOR MOBILE DEVICES AND SMART NETWORK CONFIGURATION SELECTION FOR MOBILE DEVICES and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 652 144 filed Feb. 11 2005 entitled CALL INTERCEPT METHODS SUCH AS FOR CUSTOMER SELF SUPPORT ON A MOBILE DEVICE all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Current methods for handling customer self support calls often require a call to a call center and retrieval of data from a network. For example a subscriber may dial from their mobile device a customer support number such as 611 or 133. Once the subscriber dials the customer support number an automated system may answer the call and provide the subscriber with a menu of options. The subscriber selects options from the menu by pressing buttons on the mobile device or through voice recognition software. Once the subscriber requests data by selecting an option the automated system retrieves the data from a network and delivers the data to the subscriber over the mobile device. Alternatively a third party application such as PocketThis may independently provide content from the network to a mobile device via SMS Short Message Service or WAP Wireless Application Protocol push.

Problems are associated with current implementations of customer self support for mobile devices. Existing systems rely on the use of an external network to provide data to the subscriber. The use of an external network for customer self support can consume a large amount of bandwidth congest the network provide for slower customer response times and lead to increased costs for the mobile device carrier. In addition the use of an automated system with multiple options can result in longer call wait times increased call costs for the mobile carrier and customer and lost customers due to the longer call wait times.

The headings provided herein are for convenience only and do not necessarily affect the scope or meaning of the claimed invention.

In the drawings the same reference numbers and acronyms identify elements or acts with the same or similar functionality for ease of understanding and convenience. To easily identify the discussion of any particular element or act the most significant digit or digits in a reference number refer to the Figure number in which that element is first introduced e.g. element is first introduced and discussed with respect to .

A portion of this disclosure contains material to which a claim for copyright is made. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or patent disclosure including the Figures as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but the copyright owner reserves all other copyright rights whatsoever.

The invention will now be described with respect to various embodiments. The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding of and enabling description for these embodiments of the invention. However one skilled in the art will understand that the invention may be practiced without these details. In other instances well known structures and functions have not been shown or described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description of the embodiments of the invention.

It is intended that the terminology used in the description presented below be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific embodiments of the invention. Certain terms may even be emphasized below however any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section.

A method for locally intercepting calls from a mobile device for providing enhanced services such as customer self support is disclosed. Subscribers may dial one or more predetermined numbers on their respective mobile device. Software on the mobile device determines whether the number corresponds to one of the predetermined numbers such as a customer support number . The phone provides information to the subscriber and may intercept the call when the number is dialed after the call has gone through while the call is on hold etc. For example if the number dialed matches a customer support service number then the mobile device may interrupt the attempted call and display a list of potential solutions to the subscriber s problems on the mobile device. The list of potential solutions may be stored locally on the mobile device itself and not on the network. Each solution can be a combination of step by step procedures for the subscriber to perform information and graphics multiple executables that access and alter data on the phone multiple executables that access and alter data on the carrier network or on a remote Internet server or others.

Aspects of the invention can be embodied in a special purpose computing device or data processor that is specifically programmed configured or constructed to perform one or more of the computer executable instructions explained in detail herein. Aspects of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks or modules are performed by remote processing devices which are linked through a communications network such as a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Aspects of the invention may be stored or distributed on computer readable media including magnetically or optically readable computer discs hard wired or preprogrammed chips e.g. EEPROM semiconductor chips nanotechnology memory or other data storage media. Indeed computer implemented instructions data structures screen displays and other data under aspects of the invention may be distributed over the Internet or over other networks including wireless networks on a propagated signal on a propagation medium e.g. an electromagnetic wave s a sound wave etc. over a period of time or they may be provided on any analog or digital network packet switched circuit switched or other scheme . Those skilled in the relevant art will recognize that portions of the invention reside on a server computer while corresponding portions reside on a client computer such as a mobile or portable device and thus while certain hardware platforms are described herein aspects of the invention are equally applicable to nodes on a network. In an alternative embodiment the mobile device or portable device may represent the server portion while the server may represent the client portion.

The handset based services may include executable software software configurations hardware configurations and controls and handset operating system interfaces. As disclosed herein executable software may include without limitation any software program stored on the mobile device or associated memory device both permanently and temporarily connected via hardware or wireless connectivity. The mobile device may include an authentication system e.g. via a SIM a hardware interface a report system a script interface a script platform data and scripts . The network based services may include a network or networks mobile network services a mobile network operator customer service system a host information management system updated scripts and report data . The components of the mobile device and the network based services will be described below.

The components within the mobile device allow the device to integrate both handset based services and network based services . The authentication system can implement SIM Subscriber Identity Module card based or standalone authentication to meet network requirements for desired levels of security. Authenticating a system to meet network requirements may not be required but is often recommended.

The hardware interface may retrieve hardware interface elements required for interfacing with network or phone based customer support services. Examples of hardware interface elements include changing volume changing frequency retrieving SIM Subscriber Identity Module ID connection status from the SIM or radio hardware and others. The report system may collect and forward the data reported by the mobile device to the network . The report system can also encrypt the handset identification information to provide increased security. The information can be encoded so that only the host information management system can decipher the handset identification information.

The script interface serves as a standard application programming interface for customer support services. More specifically the script interface provides an interface between scripts and the various hardware specific and executable program specific functions. The script interface allows a single customer service script to be deployed across multiple operating systems and hardware configurations. In addition the script interface includes a standard API Application Programming Interface for both the hardware OS side and the script interface.

The script platform can mix and match calls through the script interface to acquire information to change or correct settings on the phone and to perform additional functions as described below. The script platform authenticates runs and updates all scripts manages reporting updates and changes communicates with the host information management system communicates with the GUI Graphical User Interface and manages customer surveys and interviews. The host information management system can push a notification to the script platform via USSD Unstructured Supplementary Services Data SMS Short Message Service IP Internet Protocol or any other network connectivity that the mobile device supports. The script platform can run the scripts after authentication and the scripts can be authenticated to the network or to the phone.

The components within the network based services allow the mobile device to communicate with and to retrieve data from the network . The network based services may include wired and wireless systems. The mobile network services may consist of one or more systems including billing CRM Customer Relationship Management provisioning and others. Furthermore mobile network services are able to return data calls made by mobile devices via standard network protocols e.g. IP DTMF Dual Tone Multi Frequency SMS USSD etc. .

The mobile network operator customer service system may also consist of one or more systems relating to customer service including billing CRM provisioning and others. The host information management system controls interactions between the mobile device and the host customer support system. The host information management system can transmit updates to the mobile device. The mobile device typically employs a unique handset ID or serial number and a mobile phone number. The report data provides storage for report information gathered from the mobile device. The updated scripts consist of scripts that the host customer support system provides to the mobile device. The updated scripts can be managed and versioned as desired by the host information management system can be targeted at specific subscribers or groups of subscribers and can include requests for reports and customer interview surveys.

The provisioning agent interacts with the updated scripts and report data . The provisioning agent collects report data associated with the device data and subscriber experience data from the mobile device . The provisioning agent also corrects subscriber problems in real time by transmitting appropriate scripts to the mobile device . The transmission of scripts to and the collection of data from the mobile device may be hosted within the network or externally. In addition the updated scripts and the report data may be stored in an SQL Structured Query Language database .

The mobile device may include a rendering platform e.g. implemented in C an optional UI User Interface server a client and a script interface . The client generates reports containing subscriber data and transmits the reports to the network based services . The client receives scripts from the network based services that can correct subscriber problems. The script interface allows a single script to be executed by multiple operating systems and hardware configurations. In addition the mobile device may also include an OS Operating System specific OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer and device hardware . In general the mobile device scripts or applications may be customized via a European Computer Manufacture s Association ECMA compliant scripting language such as JavaScript. Such software can be installed by the manufacturer or after manufacturing such as over the air particularly with open OS based devices. For proprietary OS based devices a small kernel can be installed at the time of manufacturing or flashed onto the device at a later time and then the full client application can be installed on the mobile device over the air.

As explained herein the scripts or software applications on the mobile device provide for at least four processes providing customer care to a subscriber on the mobile device by intercepting calls diagnostic tools to allow customer service representatives to remotely execute diagnostics and commands on the mobile device with proactive tool to correct problems for subscribers on the mobile device collecting and summarizing data and other metrics with respect to mobile devices and guides to train subscribers when they need it most such as the first time they attempt to use an application.

The screens may be stored as display descriptions graphical user interfaces or other methods of depicting information on a computer screen e.g. commands links fonts colors layout sizes and relative positions and the like where the layout and information or content to be displayed on the page is stored in a database. In general a link refers to any resource locator identifying a resource on a network such as a display description provided by an organization having a site or node on the network. A display description as generally used herein refers to any method of automatically displaying information on a computer screen in any of the above noted formats as well as other formats such as email or character code based formats algorithm based formats e.g. vector generated Flash format or matrix or bit mapped formats.

A subscriber may access the display on a screen by dialing a customer support number such as 611. The display automatically provides the subscriber with a list of top issues or questions which may answer common customer support questions. Subscribers can scroll down on the display using a more options button to view additional issues. Subscribers can select an issue from the list using a select button . Selecting an issue allows the mobile device to retrieve relevant data from the local programmable non volatile memory .

If the mobile device determines that the subscriber s call should be intercepted at block then the call along with access information required to route a message to the mobile device is directed to the mobile device application running on the subscriber s mobile device block . In one embodiment the mobile device could play sounds or show a dialog on the display to indicate that a call has been intercepted. The mobile device application routes a signaling message indicating that the subscriber s call has been intercepted to the customer support call center via network signaling technologies such as SMS or USSD and may receive a response message back. In block the mobile device receives and processes any signaling message from the mobile device application. The mobile device may also receive certain customer self support data from the network. In block a customer support session begins on the subscriber s mobile device using locally stored data received from the mobile device application. The mobile device may use a variety of technologies to display and respond to the customer support issue in question. In block the mobile device addresses the subscriber s support issue locally as described below. In an alternative embodiment the mobile device retrieves data or scripts from the network to address the subscriber s support issue as noted above block .

In an alternative embodiment the call center determines if the subscriber s call should be intercepted and directs the call accordingly. The call center may utilize an IVRS Interactive Voice Recognition System to communicate with the subscriber. If the call center determines that the call should not be intercepted then the call is allowed to continue through the call center for processing block . If the call center determines that the call should be intercepted then the call is redirected back to the mobile device for local processing block . Thus if the call goes through to the call center IVRS and then is routed back to the mobile device the call to the call center may includes access information to facilitate routing a message back to the mobile device via SMS USSD or other network signaling technologies. The call center employs a software application to direct mobile equipment so that it automatically processes requests it receives from mobile devices.

A customer support call may be intercepted before connecting to a call center as illustrated in . A customer support call may also be intercepted and redirected after it has established a connection to the call center. illustrates a routine for intercepting and redirecting a call after it has connected to a customer support call center. In block a subscriber calls a customer support call center from his or her mobile device. The call connects to the call center and the mobile device determines if the call should be intercepted block . If the mobile device determines that the call should not be intercepted then the call is allowed to continue to normal call center processing block . If the mobile device determines that the call should be intercepted then the call is redirected or rerouted back to the mobile device block where the mobile device displays a list of potential solutions to the subscriber s problems block . Thus a voice call is converted in to an action on the mobile device. The rerouting can be done by call center software rerouting the call back or a proxy call center reacting to an inbound call with a device push.

The mobile device may intercept the customer support call and prompt the subscriber to automatically send a message to the customer support call center to call back at a later time block . If the subscriber elects to send a message to the customer support call center to call back at a later time then the subscriber s request for customer support is placed into a queue for the call center to return a call when call volumes permit block . The message may be in the form of an e mail SMS IP or others. The message may contain customer related information e.g. phone number name potential questions etc. . The subscriber may use the mobile device as usual after sending the message to the customer support call center. The mobile device may track the requested call and the subscriber may cancel the request if he or she finds a solution locally on the mobile device.

If the subscriber elects not to send a message to the customer support call center to call back at a later time then the mobile device may provide the option to send a message later on block using a display element on the display block . If the subscriber selects the display element on the display then the message will be transmitted to the call center requesting a call back.

In one embodiment the mobile device could record all of the actions performed by the user whereby after completing all of the help screens on the mobile device the mobile device could place a call to a zero wait queue at the customer care center and provide all of the keystrokes or other information from the mobile device to the customer care representative. In this way the customer care representative will be apprised of what the subscriber has done and needs help with. This may be in conjunction with the mobile device previously sending out a request message to the customer care center and then receiving a special number such as a 36 digit number to be used to access the zero wait queue and to initiate a help ticket for the customer care center.

Continuing to a subroutine for accessing a solution to a customer support issue begins where the subscriber selects a solution to a customer support issue on the mobile device block . If a security code is not required to access the solution on the device block then the mobile device provides the selected solution which may be implemented on the device itself block . The selected solution may involve step by step procedures or screens informational graphics a video and or audio clip multiple executables for data on the mobile device multiple executables for data on the network or remote server or others. After the mobile device provides access to and implements the selected solution the device may locally or remotely store information related to the subscriber s selected solution block .

In block if a security code is required to access the selected solution then the mobile device may prompt the subscriber to enter the security code to access the selected solution block . If the security code is incorrect then the mobile device will deny access to the selected solution block . If the security code is correct block then the mobile device will provide access to the selected solution and may implement the solution block . An example of this is provided below with respect to .

The mobile device may also check to see if new or updated information is available for the mobile device block . For example information can refer to scripts or other software executables that can be downloaded from the network to the mobile device. If new information is available then the mobile device downloads and installs the information block . If new information is not available then the phone proceeds to receiving and processing a dialed number once again.

Changing the display appearance on the mobile device may include superimposing branding on the mobile device s wallpaper displaying two time zones when the mobile device recognizes transition to a new time zone and others as described below. The mobile device can display a ticker across the top of the screen that says e.g. Welcome to customer care the average wait time is five minutes. You may now look at the screen below to help resolve problems or answer questions more quickly. Also the mobile device may provide audio feedback or audio scripts such as the ringing of a call or the sound of a pickup and a voice script that provides the same information as provided in the ticker. This can then take the place of the actual placing of a call. Similar audio scripts may be provided to mimic the calling to and answering by a customer support call center.

One example of a common customer support call is to retrieve the SIM Subscriber Identity Module unlock code. illustrate suitable screens to help a user in unlocking a SIM on a mobile device. Portion of explains that the SIM is locked. The display on the mobile device may prompt the subscriber to enter a code to unlock the SIM portion . If the subscriber indicates that he or she has forgotten the code e.g. provides input to a screen portion then the mobile device may prompt the subscriber for alternate information to decrypt the SIM unlock code stored on the mobile device portion of . For example the alternate information may be an answer to a question which here is the name of the subscriber s dog . Entering the correct name will unlock the SIM by selecting an unlock option after entering the correct answer .

The service provider may also provide levels of service to different groups of subscribers. For example show examples of display screens provided to a basic customer a high average revenue per unit ARPU customer and an enterprise customer respectively. With the example of the service provider can control the experience provided to the subscriber to minimize customer care costs while delivering high user experience as noted herein. As shown in an upper portion of the screen of the user s name Marie Pascal and associated phone number are displayed along with her current balance expiration date of purchased minutes last time minutes were topped up number of minutes used and number of messages used. A lower portion provides some common functions the subscriber may wish to perform such as topping up a number of minutes now accessing games or other desirable subscriber features such as ring tones an entry point into a series of help options as well as an opportunity to purchase offerings from the service provider.

Under a mezzanine level of service depicted in the service provider can enhance the high ARPU subscriber experience by providing premium service access with integrated vendor support. Call backs can be scheduled from a customer service call center and any service calls can be automatically routed to a premium support group or to a head of any queue. An upper screen portion depicts a chart showing used and allowed voice minutes SMS messages and kilobytes of data while a lower portion depicts options for such a premium subscriber to access his or her billing records to automatically speak to a premium customer support representative to access concierge services as well as to view upcoming events for premium subscribers.

Overall data displayed in the screens of may be refreshed automatically so there is no need for the subscriber to call customer care. If however the subscriber does call customer care then the mobile device may forward relevant data automatically to the call center and connect to a relevant group such as premium call services advanced technical services or a billing department. And as noted above an audio announcement is played initially so that the subscriber perceives an immediate response.

The mobile device support applications described herein also allow a user to access help instructions at an appropriate time where these instructions are automatically provided to the user rather than forcing the user to hunt through at times lengthy help menus for a relevant topic. Automatic instructions can be useful for instance when a subscriber dials 911. When a subscriber makes a 911 emergency call the subscriber s mobile device may provide first aid instructions upon detecting that 911 is dialed. The mobile device may automatically provide information to the 911 PSAP Public Service Answering Point call center. The mobile device may also notify the PSAP that the phone has a camera and the mobile device could then instruct the subscriber to send a picture or live video of the patient or victim to a medical specialist such as an EMT Emergency Medical Technician . Conversely the mobile device may receive an instructional video to help describe appropriate first aid measures to apply to the victim. 

Furthermore the system may be expanded to handle other calls such as information or 411 calls. Here the mobile device may intercept a 411 call and provide options to the user such as a list of previously requested numbers with or without associated information associated with these numbers options to access information via commonly or recently accessed web pages and so forth.

The wireless service provider may also provide detailed information such as links to one or more web pages associated with the requested information or specific information that needs to be displayed on the mobile device based on the options provided such as providing to the mobile device a map of the requested information. In this example the subscriber selects to view the map via option and the now locally stored map may be shown on the mobile device as shown in . The mobile device launches any appropriate device application to display or access data. In the example of the mobile device launches a web browser to display the map. In response to the subscriber s 411 call the wireless service provider may provide back information to be displayed on the subscriber s phone such as that shown in upper portion in . As also shown the subscriber has selected to display a map of the obtained information.

As shown in a user has taken a picture or otherwise captured an image via the mobile device . In response the phone then captures the event allows a scriptor to create a context based reactionary process and provides a service alert shown in that asks the user whether he or she wishes to send the picture to another person and if so the phone then walks the user through one or more additional screens to instruct the user as to how to perform this operation. As a result these user guides are interactive and context sensitive. Usage of these functions by subscribers is promoted via on screen suggestions and training is delivered at the point it is most valuable to the user.

Thus an added component of providing localized customer support involves the use of tutorials or guides to instruct subscribers in using applications or functions on their mobile devices. When a subscriber launches an application on their mobile device for the first time the mobile device may be able to detect this first time usage. The mobile device may then locally launch an automated training tutorial that addresses the context of the application or situation. The tutorials serve to guide the subscriber along and include a set of instructions. In addition the mobile device may automatically collect configuration or setup data from the subscriber to deliver automated context sensitive tutorials and guides at relevant times. Alternatively or additionally the mobile device may retrieve training tutorials or guides from the network or the use of automated context sensitive training tutorials in one application or service may key automated training in another application or service. Results of the training tutorials may be logged for offline analysis. Further rather than just providing the tutorial functionality the first time the mobile device can monitor usage of device functions and initiate the tutorial functionality after a predetermined period of time has elapsed e.g. three months . After the predetermined time the mobile device may assume that the subscriber has forgotten how to perform the desired function and therefore again provides the tutorial functionality. Alternatively or additionally the mobile device may provide a tutorial after a preset number of times. For example if a subscriber has taken three pictures and has not emailed or otherwise sent any photo messages then the mobile device launches a tutorial regarding how to send photos via the mobile device or provides an indication to the subscriber asking whether he or she would like to view the tutorial .

Thus the phone can recognize first time usage and usage in one application function or service may key training in another for the user. As noted above when the subscriber launches an application on his or her mobile device for the first time an interactive training session automatically recognizes this first time usage and launches a training session accordingly. The small training scenarios guide the users along and may collect configuration or setup data as well as feedback data that could be provided to the service provider. These user guides need not be locally stored but can be distributed over the air from the network as necessary although common guides can be used across all applications and be stored locally for such purpose. The support application on the mobile device monitors usage behavior and launches training scenarios for user guides based on mobile device events. By automatically activating such user guides the subscriber s understanding of existing applications or services provided are deepened and results can be logged on the phone and downloaded to the network or transmitted to the network in near real time for off line analysis.

A proxy call center system may remotely activate a mobile device that does not contain the mobile device application by sending a network message e.g. SMS USSD etc. via the PSTN . The message contains a link to a local or a remote screen which may be used to activate the device. The remote activation of a mobile device may occur at the primary tertiary or proxy call center systems. The proxy call center includes other known components some of which are shown.

Under this alternative embodiment of once a call has been initiated block an audio introduction using a proxy IVR via the proxy system block or an operator IVR via the call center block may be initiated. Alternatively the mobile device may have locally stored audio files or scripts to mimic or spoof a call to a call center. . Either way the subscriber is audibly prompted to press a button e.g. X if the subscriber s question corresponds to a particular service or feature block . If the subscriber does not press the button corresponding to the service e.g. X block then the call continues through the IVR routing system without interruption block . If the subscriber presses the button corresponding to the service block then the call center determines if the mobile device has the required self support mobile device application block . If the mobile device has the mobile device application block then the mobile device intercepts and redirects the call to the mobile device itself block and provides an appropriate audio message.

The mobile device application on the mobile device typically addresses the subscriber s question and solves the issue locally as described above. In cases where the mobile device application is unable to solve the issue locally the mobile device may rely on data to solve the issue from the network block thereby and provide data to the device via a caller appropriate connection block . When the network receives a request for data from the mobile application device the network may verify that the mobile device application has a license block to access data from a license database . The network may also determine if the mobile device is WAP Wireless Application Protocol enabled . If the mobile device is WAP enabled then data can be transmitted from the network to the mobile device using WAP block . If the mobile device is not WAP enabled then data can be transmitted from the network to the mobile device using a non WAP enabled protocol such as via a SIM STK SIM application toolkit block .

If the subscriber selects the button corresponding to a particular service or feature block or directly under a second option then a user interface for the mobile device application is launched block to provide self support to the user. Under a third option the mobile device application retrieves device or service context and launches the user interface for the mobile device application block while a fourth option may consist of a combination of the first second and third options. The device context can include a current state of the mobile device and a series of inputs provided to the device based on a running log of states and inputs tracked by the device. For example the memory may include an image recently stored there and the input log may show that the mobile device recently took a picture and that a list of electronic addresses numbers is being accessed on the phone. Thus the mobile device application may use this context information to guess that the user may be trying to send the picture to a friend and thus ask through the user interface whether the user would like instructions on how to send the picture. Other context information may be gathered including system data e.g. whether a call was recently dropped .

In an alternative embodiment the SIM USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module on the mobile device may be used to intercept and to redirect customer service support calls. illustrates a routine for intercepting and redirecting a customer service support call from the mobile device using the call control capabilities of the SIM USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module . This alternative embodiment uses built in capabilities of a 3GPP TS 11.14 compliant or similar SIM or USIM to perform call control to generically reroute calls for support back to the handset via SMS supplementary service control strings and or other network and handset based control commands. This allows for routing calls without altering handset dialing programs.

As shown in the subscriber first dials a number on the mobile device block . If the dialed number does not match a number stored on the mobile device then the call continues to the call center without interruption block . If the dialed number matches a number stored on the mobile device then the SIM card on the mobile device intercepts and redirects the call to the mobile device block using SMS supplementary service control strings network and mobile device based control commands and others.

In one embodiment the SIM card may send a command via SMS to the mobile device to launch a support application block . In another embodiment the SIM card may send a command via USSD unstructured supplementary service data to the mobile device to launch a support application block . In yet another embodiment the SIM card may send a command to the mobile device to launch a browser to a URL block . In an alternative embodiment the SIM card may display a support function on a SIM based browser or application block . In addition mobile devices with advanced SIM capabilities may send a command to the mobile device to launch a resident support application block or send a command to the mobile device to launch a support application on the device itself block .

Network based services may automatically query set save and restore settings on the mobile device and SIM card or perform other functions. Alternatively or additionally the mobile device may locally perform diagnostic scripts on the device to gather user device and network data. Such scripts may be loaded over the air OTA and may be so loaded at any point or initiated from a call center agent desktop computer. By either agent or mobile device initiation diagnostic scripts on the phone are automatically initiated proactively to resolve problems encountered by the subscriber. In one embodiment the mobile device or the call center agent can collect via scripts all the required information over the air without asking the subscriber.

The system may also resolve handset issues and record how the matter was resolved. The network service provider may provide proactive diagnostics to automatically correct top call driven configuration issues to correct such problems and reduce the number of calls by subscribers to the customer support line.

Referring to an example of a computer display showing device information and configuration data as used by a call center agent is shown. While on a call with a subscriber the agent can from his or her desktop computer send diagnostic commands over the air to the mobile device. In response the mobile device retrieves or gathers diagnostics and status information and sends them back to the agent s computer via the network. In this way agents are able to quickly correct issues on the first call with the subscriber and the subscriber is never asked to perform tedious tasks or asked to call back on a land line. For instance network based services will not need to ask a subscriber to remove their battery to provide mobile device identification data since the data will be reported automatically to the network based services in real time.

As can be seen from the system can automatically display on a computer to a call center agent detailed information regarding the mobile device and its owner. A web browser or customer service display includes a menu of options report and history portion e.g. APN list memory analysis applications list etc. the name of the mobile device owner the owner s account number and phone number MSISDN Mobile Station Integrated Services Digital Network number international mobile subscriber identity IMSI and details regarding the phone itself such as the manufacturer model number firmware version serial number and IMEI International Mobile Equipment Identifier . Other tabs when selected display the history of the handset as well as other handsets associated with the subscriber phone numbers SIM etc. As also shown in the system can display a media file count representing different types of files e.g. photos audio video the location of those files the total number and size of the files and so forth.

Thus network based services may use a standard web browser to interact with reports and to remotely issue commands from the network browser to the mobile device. In this manner the network based services or the call center agent can remotely monitor subscriber and mobile device activities thereby notifying the subscriber when problems occur rather than when they are reported by the subscriber.

Possibly more importantly the call center agent via the system can initiate actions on the mobile device via his or her computer. For example as shown in the media display portion the call center agent may select a Select button to perform a Move files to Memory Card function that permits the call center agent to move files from the embedded memory on the mobile device to a removable memory card in the device. Other options include initiating a local multimedia messaging service MMS guide for the subscriber moving photos to an online photo album showing subscriber audio analysis and so forth. Likewise the call center agent can select an appropriate button in the report report history portion to access a list of available IP network access point names analyze how memory is currently being used on the mobile device list applications currently loaded and or running on the mobile device count media file types as shown in portion and list the content of an application registry for the functionality described above.

By clicking on a small image of the mobile device shown in the display the call center agent s computer displays a pop up window featuring an enlarged image of the mobile device that includes current contents of the mobile device s display as shown in . The call center agent or customer service representative may then interact with the image of the mobile device in the window to remotely and virtually actuate buttons on the mobile device including sending touch screen commands to the mobile device if that device has a touch screen. This allows the call center agent to take temporary control of the device for diagnostic or configuration purposes.

One example of remotely initiating actions or providing remote data to the mobile device is found in . Another example is shown in where the mobile device performs active monitoring of the device itself via an appropriate script or mobile device application to monitor a change in network availability and status. The device application on the subscriber s mobile device can automatically monitor device settings configurations network availability and network status. The mobile device may thus respond to a network event such as roaming into a 2.5G type network which causes a locally stored script to alert the user. In the example of the mobile device has roamed outside of a video service area and thus the subscriber cannot send or receive videos. However a script on the mobile device provides notice to the subscriber indicating that voice calls text messages and many other lower bandwidth applications are still available. The mobile device script displays an instructive dialog on the display . Such a helpful message to the subscriber can avoid costly calls to the support center when users may have attempted to send or receive videos outside the service area. The mobile device script may also log and report events or errors. In addition the mobile device application may also automatically re configure the mobile device while roaming or may add a new network configuration. The terms mobile device script and application may at times be used interchangeably herein as those skilled in the art will recognize. 

A system including the network based services and the mobile device may be used to collect and to summarize data or metrics from the mobile device. Mobile device activity can be automatically logged and captured for periodic reporting to the network based services. Collected data may be used to determine which applications are being used and how often users are accessing them. The collected data can be used with performance engineering systems and can gather business intelligence from rich device resident data or metrics.

The gathering of such mobile device metrics begins by the network operator defining data for collection. All mobile device activities can be locally logged or cached on the mobile device and periodically provided back to the network. Such logged data can include network events and messages. Over the air scripts provided by the network operator to the mobile device can instruct the device on what metrics to gather and with what frequency. For example the service provider may program the mobile device to periodically e.g. monthly report to the network a status of installed executable program and their functional status. The status of the executable programs can be performed via an API application programming interface function called by the reporting system.

Through these scripts stored on the mobile device user and network data is stored locally for periodic reporting and the collection may conform to the network operator s privacy policy while being invisible to the subscriber. Available database and reporting tools may import and use the periodically reported data. Such reporting tools may generate reports formatted for including business intelligence and data warehouse or data mining. As a result such data easily augments network performance engineering systems. In general the following is a list of some metrics that may be collected from mobile devices although many others are possible owner information phone settings IMEI battery level battery level history time charger connected volume level ring tones profile use history number or history of hard resets count of contacts installed applications network settings signal strength radio frequency tower ID carrier ID visiting carrier ID base station history carrier ID history phone number voicemail number handset ID camera capable SIM ID audio recording capable screen resolution screen color depth operating system OS version date and time email configuration hardware make model firmware version audio playback capabilities language memory and memory used connection state or type of connection used volume levels backlight on off sound events profiles SIM contacts turn device powered down device hibernate security settings key pad lock profiles and SIM lock. Access to any of this data is scriptable so that the network service provider may decide what metrics to gather from what mobile devices. The service provider may also capture activities e.g. applications started network status cell tower ID and create standardized scriptable functions that can be combined to create a context sensitive service for the user.

The method for intercepting calls at the mobile device may also be applied to locally verify if a subscriber is eligible for a special offer or promotion. illustrate a method for locally verifying on the mobile device if a subscriber is eligible for an advertised promotion. The method begins where a subscriber calls customer support to see if they qualify for an advertised promotion. The mobile device intercepts and redirects the call to the mobile device itself. shows three icons on the mobile device display corresponding to three different promotions and . If the subscriber selects the NEC 338 icon then the display may show information regarding the promotion as well as links to determine if the subscriber qualifies for the promotion and to the terms and conditions of the promotion as shown in .

If the subscriber selects the Do I Qualify option the mobile device will locally check to see if the subscriber qualifies for the promotion or query an appropriate network server if necessary as shown in . If the subscriber qualifies for the promotion as shown in the subscriber may select either to sign up for the promotion or to not sign up for the promotion . If the subscriber chooses to sign up for the promotion then the mobile device prompts the subscriber to enter the subscriber s PIN number as shown in . If the correct PIN number is entered then the mobile device prompts the subscriber to select a payment option by selecting either yes or no as shown in . In addition a link to the terms and conditions is provided on the display.

As can be seen aspects of the invention permit a wireless service provider to move call support functions from a call center to the mobile device itself. The wireless service provider can monitor call center activities and identify those subscriber inquiries that currently consume the largest amount of call center time and move such calls to be handled on the device itself where appropriate . As noted above many such customer support calls can be handled on the device such as technical support questions questions regarding whether a subscriber is eligible for a promotion billing inquiries and so forth. Thus the customer self support screens and functions stored locally on the mobile device links or data displayed in an initial screen on the device e.g. billing information and so forth can change dynamically so that the wireless service provider updates the customer self support features on the mobile device to accommodate those calls that currently consume the largest amount of call center time.

The customer self support features are not limited to mobile devices as noted above. Such features can apply to any remote device including consumer appliances such as refrigerators dishwashers washers dryers ovens and so forth. With any of such appliances having computing capabilities and or connection to the internet such devices can locally store information and provide the functionality described above to handle customer inquiries that previously had been handled by a call center or web site accessed by the consumer via another device such as the consumer s computer.

Thus in an alternate embodiment a mobile device may use a Bluetooth or other wireless protocol link to communicate with the household appliances. For example a Bluetooth link between a refrigerator and a mobile device may allow the mobile device to automatically detect a drop in the temperature of the refrigerator. Upon automatic detection the mobile device may alert the user regarding the drop in temperature. Using the mobile device as an interface the user may find information to address the drop in temperature on the mobile device itself may download information from a network or may call a customer support center for the specific appliance.

Referring to an example of an alternative embodiment is shown where the mobile device communicates with multiple remote devices and . Remote devices and each include a wireless transceiver that communicates with the mobile device such as via a Bluetooth link IEEE 802.11 or other short range wireless link. The mobile device may communicate with the remote device via a wired communication port that the mobile device can be physically coupled to at the subscriber s option. As also shown the remote device includes a wired connection to the network . Thus the mobile device may be a central communicator within a subscriber s home or other location where the mobile device receives alerts from the remote devices provides instructions or steps to the subscriber allows the subscriber to query a status of remote devices allows the subscriber to send commands to or operate the remote devices and so forth. While a local wireless link is described above the mobile device may be capable of remotely querying and controlling the remote devices via other connections such as via the network to control the remote device or via a longer range wireless link such as a WAN satellite link and so forth.

As noted above each remote device may include the customer self support functionality described herein. Further since some remote devices may lack a sufficient display screen or other user interface the remote device may communicate with the mobile device so that the mobile device operates as a more robust user interface for that remote device. Thus consumers may receive instruction screens from an appliance and provide commands to that appliance through the mobile device.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling of connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application shall refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above detailed description of embodiments of the invention is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed above. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example while processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative embodiments may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed in parallel or may be performed at different times.

Further the mobile device may employ many other locally stored applications beyond those described above. For example the mobile device may include its own IVR system rather than employing an IVR system at the call center. Thus the subscriber navigates through a series of IVR menus to access desired information some of which may be stored on the phone. However one option in the local IVR could be to have the device place a call to the customer support call center.

In another alternative embodiment the system may provide links to web pages supplied by the wireless service provider where these links are to specific web pages directly addressing a need or question relevant to a current status of a user s mobile device. Such an alternative is useful when a mobile device has a web browser and sufficient data connection to the service provider s web server. Thus a call intercept function on the mobile device may provide a link to a relevant web page or even access that page automatically so that it is displayed to the user rather than for example displaying locally stored content .

While many embodiments described above employ software stored on the mobile device either before being given to a subscriber or during a subscriber call the scripts and other software noted above may be hard coded into the mobile device e.g. stored in EEPROM PROM etc. . Further the above functionality may be implemented without scripts or other special modules.

The teachings of the invention provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments.

All of the above patents and applications and other references including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated by reference. Aspects of the invention can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further embodiments of the invention.

These and other changes can be made to the invention in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description details certain embodiments of the invention and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the invention can be practiced in many ways. Details of the local based support system may vary considerably in its implementation details while still being encompassed by the invention disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the invention should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the invention with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the invention to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the invention encompasses not only the disclosed embodiments but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the invention under the claims.

While certain aspects of the invention are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the invention in any number of claim forms. For example while only one aspect of the invention is recited as embodied in a computer readable medium other aspects may likewise be embodied in a computer readable medium. Accordingly the inventors reserve the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the invention.

