---

title: Downloadable configuring application for a wireless device
abstract: Systems, methods, and programs for activating a feature on a wireless device includes requesting the feature at the wireless device. A feature includes additional functions and services that add capability to or accessed by the wireless device, such as, but not limited to, voice mail, voice recognition, access to GPS, MPEG functions, and access to a data channel or increased data rates. The wireless device downloads a component from a download server that contains the logic to configure the wireless device as well as a carrier server to activate the feature. An expiration parameter or other licensing term may be associated with the requested feature. Upon expiration, the wireless device and/or carrier server is reconfigured to deactivate the feature.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09191276&OS=09191276&RS=09191276
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09191276
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140502
---
The present Application for Patent is a continuation of U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 10 740 228 entitled DOWNLOADABLE CONFIGURING APPLICATION FOR A WIRELESS DEVICE filed Dec. 18 2003 which in turn claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 435 080 entitled Downloadable Configuring Application for a Wireless Device filed Dec. 19 2002 each of which is assigned to the assignee hereof and each of which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

The present invention generally relates to computer networks and communications across computer networks. More particularly the invention relates to the configuring a wireless device and or a connected server to add features for the wireless device.

Wireless devices are being developed that allow for the execution of applications on these wireless devices. In addition systems are being developed that allow the downloading of these applications including data and other content onto the wireless device using a wireless network. The ability to download applications onto a wireless device provides several advantages. One advantage includes the ability of a user to tailor their wireless device with the applications they want. Another advantage includes not requiring the wireless device manufacturer to load all the applications that may be wanted by the user prior to shipment. In addition the carrier who s network will be used by the wireless device is not required to determine which applications the user will want to use prior to selling the wireless device for use on the network. The carrier can also dynamically determine which applications they will allow to execute on their network.

Carriers in addition to allowing applications to execute on their network also provide other features to users of the network. Features include additional functions and or services associated with the wireless device. Such features may include access to special data transmission rates caller identification and voice mail access to GPS MPEG or other functions supported by the wireless device.

Typically the features available to a user of a wireless device are defined to the phone prior to receipt by the user. This is done in advance because depending on the feature the phone may require sophisticated instructions to activate the feature on the handset. Furthermore the handset may not have an application that requires the feature and therefore the activation is not necessary. Some features require that the server associated with the carrier providing service to the wireless device update information allowing this feature to be used by the phone. For example if the user wants a voice mail feature a carrier server will be configured so that the wireless device has access to voice mail.

Currently users who wish to include these features or execute applications that will require access to these features can only add these features using few methods. One method is having the features activated when the wireless device is purchased. This is sometimes however difficult for the user to anticipate all the features they may want. As described above the user will be able to tailor their wireless devices with new applications as they become available. It will not necessarily be known by the user that an application available in the future uses a feature that they should have activated.

In addition it is foreseeable that a user may only want a feature for a short period of time such as during the time they intend to use an application that takes advantage of the feature or to use on a trial basis to see if they like the feature. This user would not want to have the manufacturer install or activate this feature if they only want to use for a short time.

Another method is to have the user contact a carrier operator. This is a can be a cumbersome process where the user must call the carrier. The carrier is verbally instructed what feature the user wants. The carrier configures the server associated with that user to indicate the feature is active. The carrier also then verbally instructs the user to perform a sequence of complicated commands to activate the feature on the wireless device. This creates many problems. Not only is it cumbersome and complex for the user it inhibits the user s desire to add features to the phone thus limiting the carrier s ability to provide additional features to a current user.

Consequently what is needed in the art are systems and methods to allow features be made accessible to phone in a dynamic nature so that the user may add features without cumbersome instructions. Furthermore such systems and methods would provide a period of expiration to disable or remove the features.

The present invention is a system method and computer program for activating features associated with a wireless device. In one embodiment a system for activating a feature for a wireless device includes a wireless device configured to receive a request to activate a feature associated with the wireless device to configure the wireless device to access the feature and to send a message to a server at activate the feature and the server configured to receive a message to activate a feature associated with the wireless device and to modify the information files associated with the wireless device associated with activating the feature.

In another embodiment a method for activating a feature on a wireless device includes receiving a request to activate the feature requesting a component from a download server receiving the component at the wireless device and executing the component on the wireless device wherein the component comprising configuring the wireless device so that the feature is activated sending a message to a profile server to configure the feature on the profile server.

With reference to the figures in which like numerals represent like elements throughout illustrates an embodiment of a system for providing subscribed software applications to one or more wireless devices such as cellular telephone in communication across a wireless network with at least one network server such as application download server that selectively downloads or provided access to software applications or other data to the wireless devices across a wireless communication portal or other data access to the wireless network . As shown here the wireless device can be a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant a pager which is shown here as a two way text pager or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The system can thus be performed on any form of remote computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers access terminals telephones without a display or keypad or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The application download server is shown here on a local server side network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network such as a database with stored applications and data that contains software applications and data that are accessible and downloadable to the wireless devices . There is also shown other network servers such as server and stand alone network server . The server and can be application or data download servers or other types of servers that interact with the wireless devices as are known in the art. The servers may have software applications patches files keys graphics data compression algorithms and any type of general data collectively referred to hereinafter as datasets resident thereupon that can be accessed by the wireless devices as is further described herein. It should be noted that server side functions as described herein can be performed on one server such as application download server . Further a computer server side computer platform can provide separate services and processes to the wireless devices across the wireless network .

Each wireless device such as cellular telephone has a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications and display data transmitted from the application download server or other network servers such as the carrier server . The computer platform also includes an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC is installed at the time of manufacture of the wireless device and is not normally upgradeable. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform also includes a local database that can hold the software applications files and or data initially loaded onto the wireless device by the manufacturer or downloaded from the application download server . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

In an exemplary embodiment a component is stored on the download server . The download server may provide other applications accessible to the wireless device such as applications or other content data. The wireless device activates a feature by requesting the component from the download server. The component is received by and stored in the wireless device . The wireless device then executes the component .

The component contains the software logic to configure the wireless device so that the requested feature may be activated. Configuring the wireless device may include setting parameters updating access tables or otherwise indicating to the wireless device or the platform on the wireless device that the feature may be accessed by the wireless device. The component may also contain other information such as expiration data for when the feature is to be deactivated as well as other licensing terms or other data that is useful in processing related to the activation of the feature.

The component may also send a message to a carrier server such as indicating that the feature being activated on the wireless device or requesting activation of the feature in the case where the carrier server must also be configured. The carrier server receives the message sent by the component and updates a profile associated with the wireless device indicating that the feature is activated. Updating the profile provides the carrier with knowledge that that feature is activated. This is useful so the carrier can account for which wireless devices are using what features. This is also useful for billing and performing tests or diagnostics. The carrier server may also use the message retrieved from the component to configure its server to activate the feature requested by the wireless device. As stated above some features may require a carrier server to be configured such as voice mail. In the case where the activation requires additional actions by the carrier server other than just updating of profile for billing or other diagnostics the carrier server will use the message and perform the necessary functions to configure the carrier server so that the user may access the feature requested.

Next the feature is activated for the wireless device Step . Activating a feature for the wireless device may take multiple configuration steps such as may be configured to indicate to the applications and other tasks accessing the wireless device that this feature is now available. Furthermore the steps required to configure a wireless device so that a feature is activated will vary based on several factors specific to the wireless device including the type of hardware including processors used by the wireless device the mechanisms used by the controlling software or wireless device platform that expose the feature to the wireless device. Similarly the steps used to configure a carrier server to activate a feature or update a profile will vary based on the individual characteristics of the carrier server. The steps necessary to activate a feature for a specific wireless device or carrier server as well as updating the profile on the carrier server will be recognized by those skilled in the art.

In one embodiment the wireless device contains a platform that interfaces between the applications and data on the wireless device and the wireless device hardware. Such a platform for example the BREW platform developed by QUALCOMM Inc. headquartered in San Diego Calif. was briefly described in . Activating the feature on the device in one embodiment includes indicating to the platform that this feature has been requested and the platform initiating the availability of that feature on the wireless device. This can be performed by having a feature table and an indication in the table that the feature is now accessible. As described above it will be recognized by those skilled in the art that there will be many variables and methods used to indicate and configure a wireless device for the given feature.

After configuring the wireless device in Step a server is configured to activate the feature for the wireless device Step . Some features as described above may use a server. For example the use of voice mail or call waiting may require the need of a separate server to be used. The server is configured to indicate that this feature being requested be activated for the specific wireless device.

In addition the server may be required to indicate in the profile that this feature is being activated for the wireless device. This may be the case even if the server is not being used for the feature. For example if a feature is activated for a wireless device that only uses the wireless device resources such as an MP3 feature or a GPS feature the server may be notified of this so that it can track that the wireless device has this capability and can bill for this added feature. The server may provide additional access to functions of the network that are not accessible by the wireless device until the wireless device is configured to do so. For example in a CDMA network if the wireless device contains a CDMA2000 1x chip but is not configured to transmit data at 1x data rates the server will be configured to allow the wireless device to transmit 1x data rates.

The feature is then deactivated when an expiration is reached Step . When a feature is requested by the wireless device expiration parameters may be associated with the feature. For example if the user is activating voice mail the user may purchase the use of voice mail for three months. This expiration parameter may be associated with the activation of this feature so that the operating system platform or other monitoring application on the wireless device determine if the feature has expired and therefore be deactivated. In addition the expiration parameter may be stored on the wireless device and or on a server associated with the wireless device and the request to deactivate based on expiration may be received from a server. Other methods in addition to expiration described above for deactivating the feature include initiating deactivation from a server or from the user requesting deactivation of the feature.

In one embodiment the user selects from a list of features associated with the wireless device to activate it. The user may also be given the option to select a time period for which this feature is activated e.g. an expiration period . It is also within the scope of this invention that the user may also be presented with other licensing terms or parameters associated with the feature to accept or decline prior to activating the feature.

The wireless device downloads the component with the expiration date and executes the component Step . In one embodiment this component contains the configuring logic for the wireless device and the expiration date associated with the feature and selected by the user. In addition the component contains an indication of what to send a server associated with the wireless device to activate the feature.

Next the component configures the handset and provides the handset access to the feature Step . The component then sends a message to the server configuring the feature for the wireless device Step . The server may use the receipt of this message to initiate the configuration steps necessary to activate this feature for the wireless device and or update any profiles so that the appropriate billing or other desired functions may be performed Step . The feature s expiration date is periodically checked to determine if it has expired Step . This check may be performed by the component that was downloaded and installed on the wireless device by the server or other applications associated with the wireless device. If the feature has not expired the feature will continue to be accessible by the wireless device. In the event that the feature has expired then processing proceeds to deactivate the feature Step . After deactivating the feature the component may be removed from the wireless device so as to free up memory storage for other programs.

The present invention includes a program resident in a computer readable medium where the program directs a wireless device having a computer platform to perform the inventive steps of the method. The computer readable medium can be the memory of the computer platform of the cellular telephone or other wireless device or can be in a local database such as local database of the cellular telephone . Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

The present invention may be implemented for example by operating portion s of the wireless network to execute a sequence of machine readable instructions such as wireless platform the application download server and any other network server . The instructions can reside in various types of signal bearing or data storage primary secondary or tertiary media. The media may comprise for example RAM not shown accessible by or residing within the components of the wireless network . Whether contained in RAM a diskette or other secondary storage media the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as DASD storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID array magnetic tape electronic read only memory e.g. ROM EPROM or EEPROM flash memory cards an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM DVD digital optical tape paper punch cards or other suitable data storage media including digital and analog transmission media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

