---

title: Selectively triggering a communicative action based on whether a quorum condition for a peer-to-peer group is satisfied
abstract: In an embodiment, a UE obtains one or more quorum conditions for communication with a given group from a set of groups to which the UE is registered. The UE searches, over a P2P interface, to identify one or more group members that are registered to the given group and which are proximate to the UE. The UE determines whether the identified one or more group members are sufficient to satisfy at least one of the one or more quorum conditions. The UE selectively triggers a communicative action associated with the given group based on whether the determining determines the at least one quorum condition to be satisfied.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584996&OS=09584996&RS=09584996
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09584996
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141022
---
Embodiments of the invention relate to selectively triggering a communicative action based on whether a quorum condition for a peer to peer P2P group is satisfied.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and third generation 3G and fourth generation 4G high speed data Internet capable wireless services. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

More recently Long Term Evolution LTE has been developed as a wireless communications protocol for wireless communication of high speed data for mobile phones and other data terminals. LTE is based on GSM and includes contributions from various GSM related protocols such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA .

LTE Direct LTE D is a proposed 3GPP Release 12 device to device D2D solution for proximate discovery. LTE D dispenses with location tracking and network calls by directly monitoring for services on other LTE D devices within a large range 500 m line of sight . It does so continuously in a synchronous system that is battery efficient and can concurrently detect thousands of services in proximity.

LTE D operates on licensed spectrum as a service to mobile applications. LTE D a device to device D2D solution that enables service layer discovery. Mobile applications on LTE D devices can instruct LTE D to monitor for mobile application services on other devices and announce their own services for detection by services on other LTE D devices at the physical layer. This allows the applications to be closed while LTE D does the work continuously and notify the client application when it detects a match to the monitor it set.

LTE D is thus an attractive alternative to mobile developers seeking to deploy proximate discovery solutions as extensions of their existing cloud services. LTE D is a distributed discovery solution versus the centralized discovery that exists today whereby mobile applications forego centralized database processing in identifying relevancy matches instead autonomously determining relevance at the device level by transmitting and monitoring for relevant attributes. LTE D offers certain benefits in terms of privacy as well as power consumption in that LTE D does not utilize perpetual location tracking to determine proximity By keeping discovery on the device rather than in the cloud the user has more control of what information is shared with external devices.

In an embodiment a UE obtains one or more quorum conditions for communication with a given group from a set of groups to which the UE is registered. The UE searches over a P2P interface to identify one or more group members that are registered to the given group and which are proximate to the UE. The UE determines whether the identified one or more group members are sufficient to satisfy at least one of the one or more quorum conditions. The UE selectively triggers a communicative action associated with the given group based on whether the determining determines the at least one quorum condition to be satisfied.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. CDMA EVDO eHRPD GSM EDGE W CDMA LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE or UE over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to an application server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The application server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the application server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the application server via the core network and or the Internet .

Examples of protocol specific implementations for the RAN and the core network are provided below with respect to to help explain the wireless communications system in more detail. In particular the components of the RAN and the core network corresponds to components associated with supporting packet switched PS communications whereby legacy circuit switched CS components may also be present in these networks but any legacy CS specific components are not shown explicitly in .

In the core network includes the above noted SGSN B and potentially a number of other SGSNs as well and a GGSN B. Generally GPRS is a protocol used in GSM for routing IP packets. The GPRS core network e.g. the GGSN B and one or more SGSNs B is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G access networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network i.e. the core network that provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. UEs of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the Internet as if from one location at the GGSN B. This is achieved by transferring the respective UE s data from the UE s current SGSN B to the GGSN B which is handling the respective UE s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN B acts as an interface between a GPRS backbone network not shown and the Internet . The GGSN B extracts packet data with associated a packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from GPRS packets coming from the SGSN B and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN connected UE to the SGSN B which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of a target UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN B stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and its associated profile in a location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN B is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for a connected UE. The GGSN B also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN B is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN B includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN B stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN B for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs B are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN B ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN B iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN B via a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP protocol. RANAP operates over a Iu interface Iu ps with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN B communicates with the GGSN B via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN B and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs not shown and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . In the embodiment of the Gn between the SGSN B and the GGSN B carries both the GTP C and the GTP U. While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN B is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

In the core network includes a plurality of Mobility Management Entities MMEs D and D a Home Subscriber Server HSS D a Serving Gateway S GW D a Packet Data Network Gateway P GW D and a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF D. Network interfaces between these components the RAN and the Internet are illustrated in and are defined in Table 1 below as follows 

A high level description of the components shown in the RAN and core network of will now be described. However these components are each well known in the art from various 3GPP TS standards and the description contained herein is not intended to be an exhaustive description of all functionalities performed by these components.

Referring to the MMEs D and D are configured to manage the control plane signaling for the EPS bearers. MME functions include Non Access Stratum NAS signaling NAS signaling security Mobility management for inter and intra technology handovers P GW and S GW selection and MME selection for handovers with MME change.

Referring to the S GW D is the gateway that terminates the interface toward the RAN . For each UE associated with the core network for an EPS based system at a given point of time there is a single S GW. The functions of the S GW D for both the GTP based and the Proxy Mobile IPv6 PMIP based S5 S8 include Mobility anchor point Packet routing and forwarding and setting the DiffSery Code Point DSCP based on a QoS Class Identifier QCI of the associated EPS bearer.

Referring to the P GW D is the gateway that terminates the SGi interface toward the Packet Data Network PDN e.g. the Internet . If a UE is accessing multiple PDNs there may be more than one P GW for that UE however a mix of S5 S8 connectivity and Gn Gp connectivity is not typically supported for that UE simultaneously. P GW functions include for both the GTP based S5 S8 Packet filtering by deep packet inspection UE IP address allocation setting the DSCP based on the QCI of the associated EPS bearer accounting for inter operator charging uplink UL and downlink DL bearer binding as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203 UL bearer binding verification as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to both GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN UTRAN only UEs and E UTRAN capable UEs using any of E UTRAN GERAN or UTRAN. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to E UTRAN capable UEs using E UTRAN only over the S5 S8 interface.

Referring to the PCRF D is the policy and charging control element of the EPS based core network . In a non roaming scenario there is a single PCRF in the HPLMN associated with a UE s Internet Protocol Connectivity Access Network IP CAN session. The PCRF terminates the Rx interface and the Gx interface. In a roaming scenario with local breakout of traffic there may be two PCRFs associated with a UE s IP CAN session A Home PCRF H PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a HPLMN and a Visited PCRF V PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a visited VPLMN. PCRF is described in more detail in 3GPP TS 23.203 and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. In the application server e.g. which can be referred to as the AF in 3GPP terminology is shown as connected to the core network via the Internet or alternatively to the PCRF D directly via an Rx interface. Generally the application server or AF is an element offering applications that use IP bearer resources with the core network e.g. UMTS PS domain GPRS domain resources LTE PS data services . One example of an application function is the Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF of the IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Core Network sub system. The AF uses the Rx reference point to provide session information to the PCRF D. Any other application server offering IP data services over cellular network can also be connected to the PCRF D via the Rx reference point.

In the eHRPD RAN includes a plurality of base transceiver stations BTSs E E and E which are connected to an enhanced BSC eBSC and enhanced PCF ePCF E. The eBSC ePCF E can connect to one of the MMEs D or D within the EPS core network A over an S101 interface and to an HRPD serving gateway HSGW E over A10 and or A11 interfaces for interfacing with other entities in the EPS core network A e.g. the S GW D over an S103 interface the P GW D over an S2a interface the PCRF D over a Gxa interface a 3GPP AAA server not shown explicitly in over an STa interface etc. . The HSGW E is defined in 3GPP2 to provide the interworking between HRPD networks and EPS LTE networks. As will be appreciated the eHRPD RAN and the HSGW E are configured with interface functionality to EPC LTE networks that is not available in legacy HRPD networks.

Turning back to the eHRPD RAN in addition to interfacing with the EPS LTE network A the eHRPD RAN can also interface with legacy HRPD networks such as HRPD network B. As will be appreciated the HRPD network B is an example implementation of a legacy HRPD network such as the EV DO network from . For example the eBSC ePCF E can interface with an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server E via an A12 interface or to a PDSN FA E via an A10 or A11 interface. The PDSN FA E in turn connects to HA E through which the Internet can be accessed. In certain interfaces e.g. A13 A16 H1 H2 etc. are not described explicitly but are shown for completeness and would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art familiar with HRPD or eHRPD.

Referring to it will be appreciated that LTE core networks e.g. and HRPD core networks that interface with eHRPD RANs and HSGWs e.g. can support network initiated Quality of Service QoS e.g. by the P GW GGSN SGSN etc. in certain cases.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B one of BSs A through A one of Node Bs B through B one of eNodeBs D through D etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. BLUETOOTH WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. PDSN SGSN GGSN S GW P GW MME HSS PCRF the application etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an embodiment that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

The various embodiments may be implemented on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as server illustrated in . In an example the server may correspond to one example configuration of the application server described above. In the server includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers or to the Internet. In context with it will be appreciated that the server of illustrates one example implementation of the communication device whereby the logic configured to transmit and or receive information corresponds to the network access ports used by the server to communicate with the network the logic configured to process information corresponds to the processor and the logic configuration to store information corresponds to any combination of the volatile memory the disk drive and or the disc drive . The optional logic configured to present information and the optional logic configured to receive local user input are not shown explicitly in and may or may not be included therein. Thus helps to demonstrate that the communication device may be implemented as a server in addition to a UE implementation as in A or B as in .

In accordance with various exemplary embodiments described herein one or more of UE UE UE UE UE and UE may support direct or D2D P2P communications whereby such UEs may support communicating with one another directly without having to communicate through another device or a network infrastructure element such as the first base station and the second base station and also support communications through the network infrastructure elements such as the first base station and or the second base station . In communications that involve network infrastructure signals may generally be transmitted and received through uplink and downlink connections between various UEs and the base stations such as links in the first cell and links in the second cell . Each of the base stations generally serves as the attachment point for the UEs in the corresponding cell and facilitates communications between the UEs served therein. In accordance with one aspect when two or more UEs such as UE and UE wish to communicate with one another and are located in sufficient proximity to each other then a direct P2P link can be established therebetween which may offload traffic from the base station serving the UEs allow UEs to communicate more efficiently or provide other advantages that will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

As shown in UE can communicate with UE through the second base station via links and and UEs and may further communicate via a P2P link . Furthermore for inter cell communications where the participating UEs are in different nearby cells a direct P2P communications link is still a possibility which is illustrated in where UE and UE may communicate using direct P2P communications illustrated by dashed link

LTE Direct LTE D is a proposed 3GPP Release 12 device to device D2D solution for proximate discovery. LTE D dispenses with location tracking and network calls by directly monitoring for services on other LTE D devices within a large range 500 m line of sight . It does so continuously in a synchronous system that is battery efficient and can concurrently detect thousands of services in proximity. LTE D has a wider range than other D2D P2P technologies such as WiFi Direct WFD or BLUETOOTH.

LTE D operates on licensed spectrum as a service to mobile applications. LTE D is a device to device D2D solution that enables service layer discovery and also D2D communication. Mobile applications on LTE D devices can instruct LTE D to monitor for mobile application services on other devices and announce their own services for detection by services on other LTE D devices at the physical layer. This allows the applications to be closed while LTE D does the work continuously and notify the client application when it detects a match to a monitor established by an associated application. For example the application can establish a monitor for tennis events and the LTE D discovery layer can wake up the application when a tennis related LTE D message is detected.

LTE D is thus an attractive alternative to mobile developers seeking to deploy proximate discovery solutions as extensions of their existing cloud services. LTE D is a distributed discovery solution versus the centralized discovery that exists today whereby mobile applications forego centralized database processing in identifying relevancy matches instead autonomously determining relevance at the device level by transmitting and monitoring for relevant attributes. LTE D offers certain benefits in terms of privacy as well as power consumption in that LTE D does not utilize perpetual location tracking to determine proximity By keeping discovery on the device rather than in the cloud the user has more control of what information is shared with external devices.

LTE D relies upon Expressions for both discovery of proximate peers and facilitating communication between proximate peers. Expressions at the application or service layer are referred to as Expression Names e.g. ShirtSale Gap.com Jane Facebook.com etc. . Expression Names at the application layer are mapped to bit strings at the physical layer that are referred to as Expression Codes . In an example each Expression Code can have a length of 192 bits e.g. 11001111 . . . 1011 etc. . As will be appreciated any reference to a particular Expression can be used to refer to the Expression s associated Expression Name Expression Code or both depending upon the context. Expressions can be either Private or Public. Public Expressions are made public and can be identified by any application whereby Private Expressions are targeted for specific audiences. Expressions can be configured to identify and characterize LTE D groups or alternatively can be configured to identify and characterize individual LTE D devices.

Public Expressions can be externally provisioned by a server AES in which case the Public Expressions are referred to as public managed expressions which can be provisioned at the LTE D device via out of band signaling. Public Expressions can alternatively be managed locally by the client application on the LTE D device itself in which case the Public Expressions are referred to as unmanaged expressions.

Discovery in LTE D operates in a synchronous manner based on parameters that are configured by the LTE network itself. For example frequency division duplexing FDD and or time division duplexing TDD may be assigned by a serving eNode B via a Session Information Block SIB . The serving eNode B can also configure an interval at which LTE D devices to are announce themselves e.g. every 20 seconds etc. via transmission of a Service Discovery or P2P Discovery message. For example for a 10 MHz FDD system the eNode B can allocate 44 Physical Uplink Shared Channel PUSCH radio bearers RBs to be used for discovery in accordance with a discovery period that occurs every 20 seconds and includes 64 sub frames such that the number of direct discovery resources DRIDs is 44 64 2816.

In at least one embodiment after two or more LTE D devices discover each other and wish to establish an LTE D session for communication the LTE network may be required to authorized establishment of the LTE D session referred to herein as network assisted connection setup. If the LTE network authorizes the LTE D session the actual media is exchanged via D2D between the LTE D devices.

Referring to the given UE obtains one or more quorum conditions for communication with a given group in a set of groups to which the given UE is registered . For example the one or more quorum conditions can be provisioned at the given UE by a server when the given UE registered to the given group or obtained at some point after registration via out of band signaling from the server or from another group member that is registered to the given group or even manually configured by an operator of the given UE itself and so on. As used herein a quorum condition for a given group is a necessary precondition that must be present before a particular communicative action e.g. initiating or maintaining a group communication session prompting a user that a session can be initiated notifying other group members that the quorum condition is reached etc. is permitted in association with the given group. For example a CEO of a company may want to listen in on all P2P calls for a company work group so the CEO may establish a quorum condition that the CEO must be present before a P2P call for the company work group is permitted. Alternatively a quorum condition for a group could simply be a threshold number or percentage of participants from the group to be present before a particular communicative action is permitted. Alternatively a quorum condition for a group could require both a threshold number of high priority or administrative users while also requiring a threshold number of total users before a particular communicative action is permitted. In a further example duration of presence can also be part of a quorum condition e.g. at least four group members must be detected as proximate by at least one group member for at least two minutes to initiate a group communication session etc. . It will be appreciated that these examples are intended to be non limiting and many different types of quorum conditions could be used in accordance with the embodiments of the invention. In a further example while the one or more quorum conditions are described below as applicable to the given group the same set of quorum conditions could also be applied to multiple groups or even all groups to which the given UE is registered. Of course quorum conditions can also vary from group to group so as to be group specific.

Referring to demonstrate a set of optional conditions that can collectively trigger which will be discussed below in more detail. Accordingly at the given UE optionally obtains a set of group identifiers that identify the set of groups to which the given UE is registered. In an example specific to LTE D the set of group identifiers obtained at can correspond to a set of Public and or Private Expressions that can be downloaded from an Expression Name Server ENS whereby the ENS can constitute an example implementation of the application server of . In an example a larger set of group IDs can be broadcasted by the ENS to P2P group members that subscribe to a P2P group service and the larger set of UEs that is broadcasted to the given UE can then be filtered by the given UE to produce the set of group identifiers associated with groups for which the given UE is interested and or allowed to join. Alternatively instead of a broadcast and filter approach the given UE could contact the ENS and individually download e.g. as used herein individually download means that the group the group identifiers that belong to groups that the given UE is interesting in joining or registering to .

Referring to the given UE also optionally obtains for each of the set of groups a list of identifiers that identify a set of group members registered to the associated group . Unlike the set of group identifiers from each identifier in the set of identifiers obtained at identifies an individual group member instead of an entire group. In an example specific to LTE D the set of identifiers obtained at can correspond to a set of Public and or Private Expressions that can be downloaded from a Group Management Server GMS whereby the GMS can constitute another example implementation of the application server of . The GMS can also be consolidated into a single server along with the ENS or alternatively can be implemented as a separate server. Similar to the set of group identifiers at the lists of identifiers obtained at can be broadcasted for the larger set of groups and then filtered at the given UE or alternatively can be individually downloaded by the given UE from the GMS.

In the embodiment of continuing with the description of optional operations through assume that each P2P group member for each of the set of groups is configured to periodically transmit an individual P2P discovery message or I P2PDM at a given interval. For example in LTE D the interval can be 20 seconds as discussed above. Each I P2PDM individually identifies the P2P group member that transmits the I P2PDM. For example in LTE D the I P2PDM can include the Private or Public Expression for the associated P2P group member. With this in mind in the embodiment of one or more P2P group members in each of the set of groups is further assigned the task of also periodically transmitting a group P2P discovery message or G P2PDM on a periodic basis which may be the same or different from the interval at which the I P2PDMs are transmitted. In an example less than all of the P2P group members may be asked to transmit the G P2PDM to reduce interference and improve battery life in scenarios where a high number of proximate P2P group members are present.

Returning to at the given UE receives a G P2PDM over a P2P interface e.g. LTE D WFD Bluetooth etc. and determines e.g. based on a comparison at B that the G P2PDM includes a given group identifier that matches a group identifier of a given group from the set of group identifiers . It will be appreciated that receipt of the G P2PDM at indicates to the given UE that at least one other group member registered to the given group is proximate to the given UE because as a general matter only P2P group members will transmit the G P2PDM although it is possible that a nearby proxy device could transmit the G P2PDM on behalf of certain P2P group members to save power in some scenarios .

Referring to the given UE monitors the P2P interface to conduct a search for identifying one or more group members registered to the given group which are proximate to the given UE . In an example the group member searching operation of can be triggered in response to receipt of the G P2PDM at such that and collectively represent a particular example for how the group member searching operation described below in more detail can be triggered. Expanding on this optional triggering example for one or more identifiers from the list of identifiers for the given group which was obtained at can be scanned for by the given UE over the P2P interface in order to identify one or more group members registered to the given group which are proximate to the given UE at . In other words receipt of the G P2PDM does not necessarily indicate which or how many group members are present for a particular P2P group although this is possible as an alternative . Therefore receipt of the G P2PDM triggers the given UE to conduct a search for I P2PDMs that belong to proximate P2P group members at . However the group member searching operation of could also be triggered in other ways and not necessarily based upon execution of through . For example the group member searching operation of could alternatively be conducted by the given UE on a periodic basis an event triggered basis e.g. based on a proximity expectation or prediction such as a group meeting being scheduled at a particular place and time based upon a server notification that other group members are proximate without any direct detection by the given UE itself and so on. Accordingly the group member searching operation of can be performed whenever there is a chance that the one or more quorum conditions could be satisfied.

Based on the group member searching operation of assume that the given UE identifies one or more group members from the given group. For example the individual ID from A of a received I P2PDM can be compared against the identifiers from the list of identifiers for the given group to identify a particular group member. In the example whereby the group member searching operation of is triggered by execution of through at least one group member will be identified at because the given UE would be expected to at least receive the I P2PDM of the group member that transmitted the G P2PDM received at and possibly other I P2PDMs from other group members as well. Under the assumption that at least one proximate group member has been identified via the group member searching operation of the given UE determines whether the identified one or more group members from are sufficient to satisfy at least one of the one or more quorum conditions for the given group that were obtained at . The given UE then selectively triggers a communicative action associated with the given group based on whether at least one of the one or more quorum conditions is determined to be satisfied as will be discussed below in more detail with respect to .

UEs . . . N also obtain at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group through e.g. as in of . In an example UEs . . . N can obtain the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group from the group management server at . In another example UEs . . . N can obtain the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group from another group member or can alternatively be pre provisioned with the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group.

At some later point in time assume that UEs . . . N are arranged as shown in . In a discovery region for UE is illustrated whereby UE is expected to be capable of detecting other P2P group members inside of the discovery region using a particular P2P technology e.g. LTE D WFD BLUETOOTH etc. . A discovery region for UE is also illustrated whereby UE is expected to be capable of detecting other P2P group members inside of the discovery region using the particular P2P technology. In this case UEs and are in their respective discovery regions and are thereby in discovery range of each other . UEs . . . N by contrast are outside the discovery regions for both UE and UE .

In the embodiment of it is assumed that each of UEs . . . N periodically broadcasts a respective I P2PDM such that these transmissions are not expressly illustrated. Further assume that the group management server assigns the responsibility of transmitting G P2PDMs on behalf of the given P2P group to less than all group members specifically to UEs and . . . N with UE not being responsible for transmitting the G P2PDM. This permits UE to conserve some battery power.

Accordingly at a given synchronized periodic interval for G P2PDM transmission UEs and . . . N each transmit a G P2PDM that is configured with QUORUM NO so that a group member receiving the respective G P2PDM will recognize that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group has not yet been satisfied and . UE by contrast does not transmit the G P2PDM because UE is not designated as a G P2PDM broadcasting entity for the given P2P group . Because UEs and are in each other s discovery range UEs and receive each other s G P2PDM which triggers an individual group member search and e.g. similar to of . As a result of the individual group member searches UE detects UE and UE detects UE . As discussed above the individual group member search can include UE and UE broadcasting their respective I P2PDMs which are received at the other UE at which point the other UE compares the individual identifier from the received I P2PDM with the list of identifiers so as to individually identify the other group member.

Referring to assume that the detections of and are insufficient to satisfy the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group and . For example two group members may be insufficient to satisfy the at least one quorum condition if three or more group members are required for the given P2P group or a specific group member or class of group member may not be present.

At some later point in time as shown in assume that UE enters into the discovery region for UE and UE also enters into a discovery region of UE . At a next synchronized periodic interval for G P2PDM transmission UEs and . . . N each transmit a G P2PDM that is configured with QUORUM NO so that each group member receiving the respective G P2PDM will recognize that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group has not yet been satisfied and . UE by contrast still does not transmit the G P2PDM because UE is not designated as a G P2PDM broadcasting entity for the given P2P group . Because UEs and are each in discovery range of UE UE receives UE s G P2PDM UE receives G P2PDMs from both UE and UE and UE receives UE s G P2PDM . With respect to it will be appreciated that the transmissions of the G P2PDMs are synchronized. In this case the G P2PDMs from UEs and may arrive at UE at substantially the same time e.g. within the same sub frame such that UE is not aware of a number of sources for any G P2PDM s received at . Receipt of the respective G P2PDMs at and triggers an individual group member search by each of UEs and respectively e.g. similar to of .

As a result of the individual group member searches UE detects UE UE detects both UEs and and UE detects UE . As discussed above the individual group member search can include UE UE and broadcasting their respective I P2PDMs which are received at another UE at which point the other UE compares the individual identifier from the received I P2PDM with the list of identifiers for the given P2P group so as to individually identify the other group member.

Referring to assume that the detections of and are insufficient to satisfy the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group. Accordingly UE and UE determine that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group is not satisfied and . However assume that the detection of is sufficient for UE to determine that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group is satisfied . For example UE can be a high priority group member whose presence is sufficient to satisfy the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group so long as at least three group members are proximate. In this case UE does not believe the aforementioned quorum condition is satisfied because UE cannot detect UE whereas UE knows both that UE is present and that the total number of proximate group members is at least equal to three.

After UE determines that the at least one quorum condition is satisfied at UE triggers a communicative action associated with the given P2P group . As will be described in more detail below with respect to the communicative action triggered at can include notifying proximate group members that the at least one quorum condition is satisfied and or initiating a group communication session between proximate group members.

Referring to UE notifies its user that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group is satisfied . This may cause the user of UE to attempt to immediately initiate a group communication session with the given P2P group. However assume this does not occur at this point in . Rather UE waits for the next discovery interval or period e.g. occurring every 20 seconds in LTE D . At this point UE transmits a G P2PDM that is configured with QUORUM NO so that each group member receiving the UE s G P2PDM will recognize that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group has not yet been satisfied e.g. similar to and of whereas UE does not transmit a G P2PDM e.g. similar to and of . However UE transmits a G P2PDM that is configured with QUORUM YES so that each group member receiving the UE s G P2PDM will recognize that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group has not yet been satisfied .

Because UEs and are each in discovery range of UE UEs and receive UE s G P2PDM which indicates that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group has been reached and . UEs and then notify their respective users to notify them that the at least one condition for the given P2P group is satisfied and e.g. similar to . In an example different operations can be performed by UEs based on whether a UE self determines that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group is satisfied as compared to if the UE is merely told by some other UE that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group is satisfied. In one example UEs may only advertise QUORUM YES in the G P2PDM if the UEs self determine that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group is satisfied. In another example UEs that detect QUORUM YES in the G P2PDM of another UE may modify their own G P2PDM to QUORUM YES even if the respective UEs have not yet independently determined that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group is satisfied. Accordingly at a next discovery period or interval at the transmission of UE s G P2PDM with QUORUM YES is shown as optional because UE could alternatively broadcast its G P2PDM with QUORUM NO until UE self determines that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group is satisfied. Meanwhile UE again transmits a G P2PDM that is configured with QUORUM YES so that each group member receiving the UE s G P2PDM will recognize that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group has been satisfied while UE does not send a G P2PDM .

At some point in time a proximate UE that recognizes that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group is satisfied may opt to setup a group communication session with the quorum satisfying proximate UEs. Accordingly UE is shown at as initiating a group communication session with the given P2P group specifically with proximate UEs and . It will be appreciated that UE is out of UE s discovery region so UE may need to bridge communication between UEs and for the aforementioned group communication session.

In an example the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group may be a requirement not only for initiating group communication sessions but also for maintaining existing group communication sessions. Accordingly UE may perform periodic individual group member searches to verify that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group is still satisfied e.g. by monitoring for I P2PDMs etc. . In a further embodiment each UE that self determined the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group being satisfied may perform the periodic verification of while UEs that rely upon other UEs for verifying the quorum condition need not perform the periodic verification e.g. UEs and in this case .

At some point during the group communication session assume that UE exits the discovery region of UE . This causes UE to determine that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group is no longer satisfied QUOROM NO at the next time UE periodically performs the individual group member search. At this point UE terminates the group communication session . Thereafter UEs and resume transmission of G P2PDMs configured with QUORUM YES so that each group member receiving the respective G P2PDM will recognize that the at least one quorum condition for the given P2P group is not satisfied and while UE still does not transmit any G P2PDMs.

While the above described embodiments are described with respect to LTE D in part it will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the above described embodiments can be implemented with respect to any D2D P2P technology or interface e.g. LTE D WFD BLUETOOTH near field communication NFC etc. .

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

