---

title: Cradle for exhibiting wearable device and method for warning stolen state of cradled wearable device
abstract: A cradle having an anti-theft device of a wearable device is provided. The cradle includes a cradle body, a cradle head that supports a wearable device and is detachable from the cradle body, such that the cradle head is exchangeable, and an anti-theft device that connects the cradle body and the wearable device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652968&OS=09652968&RS=09652968
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09652968
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20141223
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of a U.S. Provisional application filed on Feb. 24 2014 in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and assigned Ser. No. 61 943 738 and under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Sep. 4 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0117362 the entire disclosure of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a cradle. More particularly the present disclosure relates to a cradle having an anti theft device of a wearable device.

A cradle may include a support body using a support that holds a mobile terminal so that the mobile terminal does not move in order to charge the mobile terminal or a support that holds an inclined state of the mobile terminal in order to view the mobile terminal.

Further the cradle may be a support that is used for charging a battery as well as the mobile terminal. Such a cradle may be a portable cradle which a user carries a desk top type cradle for use on a table and a cradle for a vehicle that is installed within the vehicle to support a mobile terminal.

Further the cradle may be for displaying a mobile terminal at an exhibition or a general mobile terminal retail store.

As a method of supporting the mobile terminal by the cradle the mobile terminal is fixed to the cradle using a fastening device such as a screw.

However this method of supporting the mobile terminal has a problem in that when the mobile terminal is a wearable device such as a device that is worn on a wrist it is impossible for a user to wear the support or the cradle on their wrist and the user cannot determine a function and design of a rear surface of the mobile terminal.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a cradle having an anti theft function when exhibiting a wearable device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a cradle and a method for providing a warning of a stolen state of a cradled wearable device so as to provide a notification of the stolen state when exhibiting the cradled wearable device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a cradle and a method of providing a warning of a stolen state of a cradled wearable device that can replace a cradle head and that can be used in various wearable devices by enabling a cradle body to use for common use.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a cradle and a method of providing a warning of a stolen state of a cradled wearable device that can prevent theft by connecting the wearable device and a band strap using a separate frame in the wearable device in which a main body and the band strap are separated.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a cradle and a method of providing a warning of a stolen state of a cradled wearable device that can occur when a theft occurs in an exhibition.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a cradle and a method of providing a warning of a stolen state of a cradled wearable device that can visually notify the stolen state or a charge state using mounted Light Emitting Diodes LEDs in a band lock fixed to a band strap.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a cradle is provided. The cradle includes a cradle body a cradle head that supports a wearable device and is detachable from the cradle body such that the cradle head is exchangeable and an anti theft device that connects the cradle body and the wearable device.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method of notifying a stolen state of a cradled wearable device of a cradle is provided wherein the cradle includes a wearable device including a main body and a band strap coupled to the main body a cradle body that supports the wearable device a band lock fixed to the band strap a switch mounted in the band lock and a security cable that connects the cradle body and the band lock. Further the method includes mounting the band lock in the band strap setting a security mode with an operation of the switch mounted in the band lock determining whether the wearable device is stolen by determining a stolen state of the wearable device based on the operation of the switch and visually or audibly notifying the stolen state of the wearable device when the stolen state is determined.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

When describing the present disclosure the term substantially represents that it is unnecessary that a quoted characteristic parameter or value is accurately achieved an allowable error a measurement error a measurement accuracy limit and a deviation a change or a characteristic including other elements known to a person of ordinary skill in the art may occur not to exclude an effect to provide.

While the present disclosure may be embodied in many different forms various specific embodiments of the present disclosure are shown in drawings and are described herein in detail with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the disclosure and is not intended to limit the disclosure to the various specific embodiments illustrated therein. While the present disclosure may be embodied in many different forms various specific embodiments of the present disclosure are shown in drawings and are described herein in detail with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the disclosure and is not intended to limit the disclosure to the various specific embodiments illustrated therein. The same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

An expression comprising or may comprise used in the present disclosure indicates presence of a corresponding function operation or element and does not limit additional at least one function operation or element. Further in the present disclosure a term comprise or have indicates the presence of a characteristic numeral step operation element component or combination thereof described in the specification and does not exclude the presence or the addition of at least one other characteristic numeral step operation element component or combination thereof.

In the present disclosure an expression or includes any combination or the entire combination of together listed words. For example A or B may include A B or A and B.

In the present disclosure expressions such as first second primary and secondary may modify various constituent elements of the present disclosure but do not limit corresponding constituent elements. For example the expressions do not limit order and or importance of corresponding elements. The expressions may be used for distinguishing one element from another element. For example both a first user device and a second user device are user devices and represent different user devices. For example a first constituent element may be referred to as a second constituent element without deviating from the scope of the present disclosure and similarly a second constituent element may be referred to as a first constituent element.

When it is described that an element is coupled to another element the element may be directly coupled to the other element or electrically coupled to the other element through a third element. However when it is described that an element is directly coupled to another element no element may exist between the element and the other element.

Terms used in the present disclosure are not to limit the present disclosure but are to illustrate embodiments. When used in a description of the present disclosure and the appended claims a singular form includes a plurality of forms unless it is explicitly differently represented.

Unless differently defined entire terms including a technical term and a scientific term used here have the same meaning as a meaning that may be generally understood by a person of common skill in the art. It should be analyzed that generally using terms defined in a dictionary have a meaning corresponding with that of a context of related technology and are not analyzed as an ideal or excessively formal meaning unless explicitly defined.

An electronic device according to the present disclosure may be a mobile device including a communication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a smart phone tablet Personal Computer PC mobile phone video phone e book reader desktop PC laptop PC netbook computer Personal Digital Assistant PDA Portable Multimedia Player PMP MPEG 3 MP3 player mobile medical equipment camera or wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothing electronic bracelet electronic necklace electronic accessory electronic tattoo or smart watch .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may be a smart home appliance having a communication function. The smart home appliance for example the electronic device may include at least one of a television Digital Versatile Disk DVD player audio device refrigerator air conditioner vacuum cleaner oven microwave oven washing machine air cleaner set top box television box e.g. a Samsung HomeSync AppleTV or Google TV game consoles electronic dictionary electronic key camcorder or electronic frame.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include at least one of various medical equipment e.g. a Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA device a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI device a Computed Tomography CT device a scanning device and a ultrasonic wave device a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a vehicle infotainment device an electronic equipment for ship e.g. a navigation device for ship and gyro compass avionics a security device or an industrial or home robot.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include at least one of a portion of furniture or building construction an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector or various measuring devices e.g. devices for measuring water supply electricity gas or an electric wave including a communication function. An electronic device according to the present disclosure may be at least one combination of the foregoing various devices. Further an electronic device according to the present disclosure is not limited to the foregoing devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. A term of a user used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may indicate a person using an electronic device or a device e.g. an artificial intelligence electronic device using the electronic device.

Referring to a network environment A including an electronic device A is illustrated where the electronic device A may include a bus A a processor A a memory A an input and output interface A a display A a communication interface A and a sensor module not shown .

The bus A may be a circuit that connects the foregoing constituent elements and that transmits a communication signal e.g. a control message between the foregoing constituent elements.

The processor A may receive an instruction from the foregoing other constituent elements e.g. the memory A the input and output interface A the display A the communication interface A or the sensor module not shown through for example the bus A decode the received instruction and perform operation and data processing according to the decoded instruction.

The memory A may store an instruction or data received from the processor A or other constituent elements e.g. the input and output interface A the display A the communication interface A or the sensor module not shown or generated by the processor A or other constituent elements. The memory A may include a programming module such as a kernel A middleware A an Application Programming Interface API A or an application A. The foregoing respective programming modules may be formed with software firmware hardware or a combination of at least two thereof.

The kernel A may control or manage a system resource e.g. the bus A the processor A or the memory A used for executing an operation or a function implemented in the remaining programming modules for example the middleware A the API A or the application A. Further the kernel A may provide an interface that can access an individual constituent element of the electronic device A in the middleware A the API A or the application A to control or manage the individual constituent element.

The middleware A may perform an intermediary function of enabling the API A or the application A to communicate with the kernel A to send and receive data. Further the middleware A may control e.g. a schedule or load balance a work request received from the application A using for example a method of aligning a priority that can use a system resource e.g. the bus A the processor A or the memory A of the electronic device A to at least one of the applications A.

The API A is an interface that enables the application A to control a function in which the kernel A or the middleware A provides and may include for example at least one interface or function e.g. an instruction for file control window control image processing or text control.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application A may include a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application that measures an exercise amount or blood sugar or an environment information application e.g. an application that provides atmospheric pressure humidity or temperature information . Additionally or alternatively the application A may be an application related to an information exchange between the electronic device A and an external electronic device e.g. a server A or an electronic device A . The application related to information exchange may include for example a notification relay application that transmits specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application that manages the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transmitting notification information that has occurred in other applications e.g. an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health care application or an environment information application of the electronic device A to an external electronic device e.g. the server A or the electronic device A . Additionally or alternatively for example the notification relay application may receive notification information from an external electronic device e.g. the server A or the electronic device A and provide the notification information to a user. For example the device management application may manage e.g. install delete or update a turn on turn off of a function of at least a portion of an external electronic device e.g. the server A or the electronic device A that communicates with the electronic device A or a brightness or resolution adjustment of a display an application operating in an external electronic device or a service e.g. a communication service or a message service provided in an external electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application A may include an application designated according to an attribute e.g. a kind of an electronic device of an external electronic device e.g. the server A or the electronic device A . For example when the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application A may include an application related to music reproduction. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application A may include an application related to health care. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application A may include at least one of an application designated to the electronic device A or an application received from an external electronic device e.g. the server A or the electronic device A .

The input and output interface A may transfer a command or data input by a user through a sensor e.g. an acceleration sensor or a gyro sensor or an input device e.g. a keyboard or a touch screen for example to the processor A the memory A and the communication interface A through the bus A. For example the input and output interface A may provide data about a user touch input through a touch screen to the processor A. Further the input and output interface A may output an instruction or data received from the processor A the memory A the communication interface A or the sensor module not shown through for example the bus A through the output device e.g. a speaker or a display . For example the input and output interface A may output sound data processed through the processor A to the user through a speaker.

The communication interface A may provide communication between the electronic device A and an external device e.g. the electronic device A or the server A . For example the communication interface A may support a communication of a network A e.g. Internet Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN telecommunication network cellular network satellite network or Plain Old Telephone Service POTS short range communication not shown such as Wireless Fidelity WiFi Bluetooth BT or Near Field Communication NFC or wired communication such as Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard RS 232 or POTS . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a protocol for communication between the electronic device A and an external device e.g. a short range communication protocol a network communication protocol or a wire communication protocol may be supported in at least one of the API A or the middleware A. The electronic device A may be the same device e.g. the same type as the electronic device A or may be different e.g. different type from the electronic device A.

The sensor module not shown may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation state of an electronic device and convert measured or detected information to an electronic signal. The sensor module not shown may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor a gyro sensor an atmospheric pressure sensor a magnetic sensor an acceleration sensor a grip sensor a proximity sensor a color sensor e.g. a Red Green and Blue RGB sensor a bio sensor a temperature humidity sensor an illumination sensor or a Ultra Violet UV sensor. Additionally the sensor module not shown may include for example an E nose sensor an electromyography sensor EMG sensor an electroencephalogram sensor EEG sensor an electrocardiogram sensor ECG sensor an Infrared IR sensor an iris recognition sensor or a fingerprint recognition sensor.

A configuration of a cradle according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to .

Referring to a cradle according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a cradle for exhibiting displaying a mobile terminal to reporters or users at an exhibition a mobile terminal retail store and other public locations.

Particularly a cradle according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be formed as a cradle that supports a wearable device that can be worn on a wrist. The cradle may include a cradle body a cradle head and an anti theft device. First a configuration of the cradle body and the cradle head will be described and a detailed description of the anti theft device will be described later.

The cradle may include a cradle body and a cradle head to be detached from the cradle body . The cradle body is a cradle base and may be placed on a desk top table of a horizontal state or in a wall of a vertical state. Alternatively the cradle body may be fixed to an inclined plane. The cradle body may house a main board not shown and a control box not shown therein.

The cradle head may be mechanically coupled to the cradle body or may be separated from the cradle body . Further the cradle head is electrically connected to the cradle body or the cradle head may be disconnected from the cradle body . The cradle head may contain a wireless charging pad. The cradle head and the cradle body may be physically detached and may be electrically connected by connecting portions C and C. That is the connecting portions C and C may have a detaching function in addition to a connection function. Further for example when a changeable head connection does not fit into a head connection in the cradle body it can be connected to the cradle body after a separate adaptor or connector is connected to the changeable head e.g. the cradle head .

The connecting portion may include a male type connecting portion and a female type connecting portion. The male type connecting portion may be mounted in the cradle body or the cradle head . When the male type connecting portion C is mounted in the cradle body the female type connecting portion C may be mounted in the cradle head . illustrates that the male type connecting portion C is mounted in the cradle body . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the connecting portions C and or C may include for example a USB connector a micro USB and a pogo pin. At the cradle body the male type USB connector C may be formed and at the cradle head the female type USB connector C may be formed. When the two type USB connectors are connected the cradle head may be electrically connected to the cradle body when coupled to the cradle body .

An upper surface of the cradle head may be an area that supports the wearable device and one side surface thereof may be an area in which the USB connector C is formed. Further at the one side surface a fastening portion for coupling to the cradle body may be formed.

Referring to the fastening portion may be fixed at one side surface of the cradle head . Further another fastening portion corresponding to the fastening portion may be provided in the cradle body. In the fastening portion a fastening terminal having a fastening hole may be provided. Further in a central area of the fastening portion the female type USB connector C may be formed.

Referring to the upper surface of the cradle head may be an area that supports the wearable device. When the wearable device is placed charge contact terminals and connecting to a charge contact terminal not shown of the wearable device may be disposed at the upper surface . At least two charge contact terminals and may be formed. The charge contact terminals and may be formed for example in a pogo pin. The charge contact terminals and are disposed in a shape protruded from the upper surface and may be a terminal having elasticity that is compressed when pressing and that returns to an original position when a pressing force is removed like a spring. Further although not shown at a rear surface of the wearable device a pad type charge terminal corresponding to the charge contact terminals and may be disposed to be exposed.

Referring again to a direction in which the cradle head is detached from the cradle body is not limited. In order words illustrates a structure in which the cradle head is detached to be slightly inclined from the cradle body but the cradle head may be detachably formed from the cradle body in a horizontal state and may be detachably formed from the cradle body in a vertical state.

Further a holding device may be provided between the cradle head and the wearable device. The holding device may provide a force for attaching the wearable device to the cradle head . The holding device may include a magnetic body m shown in provided in the cradle body and a metal material portion at a rear surface of the wearable device. The metal material portion may be formed by coating a portion or the entire of a rear surface of the wearable device with a metal material or by attaching a metal material to a portion or the entire of a rear surface of the wearable device and a rear case of the wearable device may be made of a metal material. Alternatively in a portion of a rear surface of the wearable device a magnetic body may be provided.

A configuration of an anti theft device of a supported wearable device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to and. .

Referring to a wearable device may include a main body and a band strap . At an upper surface of the main body a display is disposed and at the center of two band straps the main body may be fixed in an integral form. The band strap may enable a user to wear the main body on their wrist. The wearable device may be formed in a wrist wearing mobile terminal.

An anti theft device of the wearable device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include a band lock and a security cable . The band lock may be fixed to one band strap of the two band straps . A fixed structure of the band lock will be described later. The security cable may be formed in a helical shape to be extended. One end of the security cable may be connected to a cradle body and the other end thereof may be connected to the band lock . Further the security cable may electrically connect the band lock to the cradle body . That is the security cable may perform two functions of mechanically connecting and electrically connecting the band lock and the cradle body .

Referring to according to various embodiments of the present disclosure in a state in which the wearable device is connected to an anti theft device a state before the wearable device is supported by a cradle head is illustrated. At an upper surface of the cradle head coupled to the cradle body the main body is supported. Further the wearable device can be prevented from being stolen by the band lock and the security cable .

Referring to a cradle head may be mounted in a cradle body using a fastening device. In the fastening device for example a screw may be fastened to a fastening portion provided in each of the cradle body and the cradle head using a driver d. As described above a coupling position of the cradle head may be primarily determined and be coupled to the cradle body by a connecting portion and the cradle head may be secondarily coupled to the cradle body by a fastening end portion of the fastening portion.

Referring to a cradle head of a cradle according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be detachably formed from a cradle body . Therefore the cradle head may be exchanged and the cradle body may be formed for common use. illustrates two of first and second cradle heads and . The first cradle head may be a cradle that supports a first wearable device and the second cradle head may be a cradle that supports a second wearable device. In the first and second cradle heads and a configuration of a connecting portion or a fastening portion is the same a support portion may be differently formed to correspond to an external shape of the first and second wearable devices. A user may selectively use the first and second cradle heads and as needed.

A configuration of an anti theft device of a supported wearable device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to .

Referring to according to various embodiments of the present disclosure a wearable device may include a main body and a band strap . The main body may be coupled to a receiving portion of the band strap or may be separated from the receiving portion of the band strap . The band strap may enable a user to wear the main body on their wrist. The wearable device may be formed in a wrist wearing mobile terminal. Further the band strap may be made of a flexible material having elasticity to forcedly couple the main body to the receiving portion or separate the main body from the receiving portion .

An anti theft device of the wearable device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include a band lock a security cable and a wire . The band lock may be fixed to one band strap of two band straps . A fixing structure of the band lock will be described later. The security cable may be formed in a helical shape to be elastically extended. One end of the security cable is connected to a cradle body and the other end thereof is connected to the band lock . Further the security cable may electrically connect the band lock to the cradle body . That is the security cable may perform two functions of mechanically connecting and electrically connecting the band lock and the cradle body . The wire may connect the main body and the band lock . One end of the wire may be fixed to the band lock and the other end thereof may be fixed to the main body specifically to a band type bracket fixed to enclose a side surface of the main body. Even if the main body is separated from the band strap by the wire the main body is locked by the band lock and thus the wearable device can be prevented from being stolen. Both ends of the band type bracket may be fixed to the other end of the wire .

The main body may be received in a cradle head the wearable device may be locked to the band lock by the wire and the security cable may electrically connect the band lock and the cradle body .

A configuration of the band lock according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to .

Referring to a band lock according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include a band lock body and a band lock cover . The band lock may form an external appearance with coupling of the band lock body and the band lock cover and may be fixed to a band strap . The coupling structure may use a fastening device such as a screw or may use a latch structure such as a hook.

The band lock may include a substrate an optical element and a switch . At an upper surface of the substrate the optical element for example a Light Emitting Diode LED may be disposed and at a lower surface thereof the switch may be disposed. In the band lock body facing the LED a light waveguide may be disposed. The light waveguide may be made of a transparent or translucent synthesis resin. Light emitted from the LED by the light waveguide may be emitted to the outside of the band lock body .

The switch may be disposed at a lower surface of the substrate and an end portion of an actuator thereof may be disposed at a bottom surface of the band lock body . When the band lock body and the band lock cover are coupled a space for inserting the band strap may exist between a bottom surface of the band lock body and an inner surface of the band lock cover . When the band strap does not exist an end portion of the actuator may be disposed to protrude into the space . The switch is a component for notifying a stolen state of the wearable device and as the band strap is inserted into the space when the switch is pressed by the inserted band strap the switch is in an on state and may be in a security mode in a non stolen state.

However as the coupling of the band lock body and the band lock cover is released when an end portion of the actuator is in a protruded state that is not pressed by the band strap the switch is turned off to notify the control box provided in the cradle body of a stolen state. A process of notifying a stolen state by operation of the switch i.e. an on off operation will be described later.

The switch may be replaced with a sensor. When the sensor is mounted it may be notified whether the band strap exists by detection of the sensor and a stolen state of the wearable device may be finally determined.

Further according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the LED of the band lock may notify a charge state as well as a stolen state. When the LED emits light the LED may visually notify that the wearable device is in a charge state.

A method of mounting the band lock according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to .

Referring to a band lock includes a band lock body and a band lock cover . First by attaching a double sided tape to an outer surface of a band strap a mounting position of the band lock is determined. When a mounting position of the band lock body is determined by the double sided tape a user may fasten the band lock cover to the attached band lock body using a fastening device for example a screw with a driver d.

Referring to an angle of a cradle according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be adjusted by an angle adjustment support . The angle adjustment support may have a support rotating by a hinge shaft h. The support may receive a force that maintains an angle by a hinge device.

Referring to a cradle according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is formed to rotate a cradle body by a hinge H and thus the cradle body may rotatably support a cradle head . It is preferable that the cradle is disposed in a best visible cradle angle in an exhibit hall.

Additionally an extension of the cradle body is formed to inwardly recede or to outwardly protrude and thus the height of the cradle head may be adjusted.

Hereinafter a method of notifying a stolen state of a cradle according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described.

Referring to when a band lock is mounted in the band strap at operation S a switch mounted in the band lock is turned on by pressing the band strap. The control box is set in a security mode according to an on state of the switch at operation S.

Thereafter the cradle maintains a security mode at operation S. An end portion of the actuator of the switch is pressed by the band strap and maintains an on state. When the switch is in an on state a security mode is maintained in the control box and when the switch is in an off state a security mode is released in the control box and thus a stolen state is determined.

It is determined whether or not the switch is turned off at operation S. If the switch is not turned off i.e. NO at operation S then the method returns to operation S and if the switch is turned off i.e. YES at operation S where for example a pressed state of the actuator of the switch is released then the switch notifies the control box of a stolen state at operation S.

Thereafter the control box recognizes a stolen state and audibly or visually notifies a stolen state at operation S. In a method of audibly notifying a stolen state a warning alarm may occur by an alarm device provided in the cradle body. In a method of visually notifying a stolen state a warning light may occur by light emission of LEDs provided in the band lock.

The foregoing constituent elements of an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may each be formed with at least one component and a name of a corresponding constituent element may be changed according to a kind of the electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the foregoing elements and may omit some elements or may further include additional other elements. Further when some of elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure are coupled to form an entity the entity may equally perform a function of corresponding elements before being coupled.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least a portion of a device according to the present disclosure may be implemented with an instruction stored at computer readable storage media in a form of for example a programming module. When the instruction is executed by at least one processor the at least one processor may perform a function corresponding to the instruction. The computer readable storage media may be for example a memory. At least a portion of the programming module may be implemented e.g. executed by for example the processor. At least a portion of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine sets of instructions or a process for performing at least one function.

The computer readable storage media may include magnetic media such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media such as a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and a Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and a hardware device specially formed to store and perform a program instruction e.g. a programming module such as a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory. Further a program instruction may include a high level language code that may be executed by a computer using an interpreter as well as a machine language code generated by a compiler. In order to perform operation of the present disclosure the above described hardware device may be formed to operate as at least one software module and vice versa.

A module or a programming module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the foregoing constituent elements may omit some constituent elements or may further include additional other constituent elements. Operations performed by a module a programming module or another constituent element according to the present disclosure may be executed with a sequential parallel repeated or heuristic method. Further some operations may be executed in different orders may be omitted or may add other operations.

As described above according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the theft of a wearable device can be prevented and even when a wearable device is lost the loss of the wearable device can be simultaneously visually or audibly notified.

Further according to various embodiments of the present disclosure because a cradle head can be exchanged various wearable devices can be supported.

Further according to various embodiments of the present disclosure a user can experience a function and a design of a rear surface of the wearable device.

Further according to various embodiments of the present disclosure in a wearable device in which a main body and a band strap are separated the loss of the wearable device can be prevented using a separate bracket.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

