---

title: Information processing system and information processing method
abstract: An information processing system includes a device registration unit that stores device identification information of a device in a first storage unit in response to a device identification information registration request, a generation unit that generates user identification information of an unspecified user of the device, an authentication unit that performs authentication in response to an authentication request from the device and associates user identification information of a specified user specified in the authentication request with the device when the authentication performed in response to the authentication request is successful, and a processing unit that executes a process according to the user identification information associated with the device in response to a request from the device that has been successfully authenticated. Upon receiving an authentication request that does not specify user identification information, the authentication unit associates the user identification information generated by the generation unit with the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09418217&OS=09418217&RS=09418217
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 09418217
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20141104
---
The present invention relates to an information processing system and an information processing method.

Devices such as image forming apparatuses that can use cloud services and other services provided via a network are known. For example a cloud service may be used to upload image data scanned by a device to a predetermined online storage.

Devices installed in an office and similar environments may be shared by a plurality of users. As such a user authentication function may be implemented in a cloud service in order to prevent unauthorized use of the cloud service via the device see e.g. Japanese Patent No. 4670507 and Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2004 341409 .

However requiring a user to input authentication information each time the user wishes to use the device may impose an operation burden on the user. Meanwhile when a device is placed within a limited space such as an office its users are most likely persons that can be trusted.

In view of the above an aspect of the present invention is directed to improving operability for using a service provided via a network from a device.

According to one embodiment of the present invention an information processing system is provided that includes at least one computer. The information processing system includes a device registration unit configured to store device identification information of a device in a first storage unit in response to a device identification information registration request a generation unit configured to generate user identification information of an unspecified user of the device that has the device identification information stored in the first storage unit an authentication unit configured to perform authentication in response to an authentication request from the device that has the device identification information stored in the first storage unit. When the authentication performed in response to the authentication request based on information specified in the authentication request is successful the authentication unit associates user identification information of a specified user specified in the authentication request with the device. The information processing system further includes a processing unit configured to execute a process according to the user identification information associated with the device by the authentication unit the process being executed in response to a request transmitted from the device that has been successfully authenticated based on the authentication request. When the authentication unit receives from the device an authentication request that does not specify user identification information the authentication unit associates the user identification information of the unspecified user generated by the generation unit with the device.

In the following embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. illustrates an exemplary configuration of an information processing system 1 according to a first embodiment of the present invention. The information processing system 1 illustrated in includes a user environment E1 a service providing environment E2 and an online storage system which may communicate with one another via a wide area network such as the Internet.

The service providing environment E2 is a system environment within an organization that provides a cloud service via a network. Note that although a cloud service is described below as a specific example of the service used the present embodiment may also be applied to other types of services provided via a network such as services provided by an application service provider ASP and web services.

The service providing environment E2 includes a service providing apparatus . The service providing apparatus provides predetermined services via a network. Services provided by the service providing apparatus include a cloud scan service. The cloud scan service refers to a service of uploading image data scanned by a device and transferred from the device to a predetermined storage. Note that in some embodiments the service providing apparatus may be arranged within the user environment E1. That is the service providing environment E2 may be included within the user environment E1.

The user environment E1 is a system environment within an organization such as a corporation that uses the device . The user environment E1 includes at least one device and an administrator terminal that are interconnected via a network such as a local area network LAN . In the present embodiment the device corresponds to an image forming apparatus having a scanning function. For example the device may be a multifunction peripheral MFP having multiple functions such as a print function a copy function and a facsimile fax function in addition to the scanning function.

The administrator terminal is a terminal used by an administrator user within the user environment E1. The administrator user refers to a user that is given special authority with respect to the cloud scan service. Examples of the administrator terminal include a PC personal computer a PDA personal digital assistant a tablet type terminal a smartphone and a mobile phone.

The online storage system is a computer system that provides a cloud service referred to as online storage via a network. Online storage is a service of providing a storage area of a storage. In the present embodiment the storage area provided by the online storage corresponds to an uploading destination candidate for uploading image data using the cloud scan service provided by the service providing apparatus .

A program that implements processes in the service providing apparatus may be provided by a storage medium such as a CD ROM. When the storage medium storing a program is loaded into the drive unit the program may be installed in the secondary storage unit from the storage medium via the drive unit . The program however does not necessarily have to be installed from the storage medium and may be downloaded from other computers via a network for example. The secondary storage unit stores files and data in addition to installed programs.

The memory unit reads a program from the secondary storage unit and stores the read program in response to an instruction to activate the program. The CPU implements functions of the service providing apparatus by executing a relevant program stored in the memory unit . The interface unit is used as an interface for establishing connection with a network.

In some embodiments the service providing apparatus may be configured by a plurality of computers each having the hardware configuration as illustrated in for example. That is in some embodiments process operations of the service providing apparatus described below may be implemented by a plurality of computers.

The application layer L is a layer for implementing server side applications related to the cloud scan service referred to as server application hereinafter . In the application layer L includes an access control unit a portal application and a scan server application . The portal application is a server application for providing a portal site of the cloud scan service. The portal site may be used to register user information and set up setting information for each user with respect to a service application for example. The scan server application is a server application for executing server side processes related to the above described cloud scan service. Note that server applications for implementing services other than the cloud scan service may be added to the application layer L. The access control unit is configured to control access to the server application.

The common service layer L includes functions common to multiple service applications and or basic functions commonly used by multiple service applications for example. Functions of the common service layer L may be called via a platform API application programming interface . Basically the platform API is called by a service application of the application layer L or the device . Note that the platform API may be made public to a party other than the operator of the service providing apparatus such as a third party vendor. In this case the server application may be implemented by the third party vendor for example. That is server applications may be developed and added as desired using the platform API .

In the common services layer L includes an authentication unit a user management unit a device management unit and a ticket management unit . The authentication unit performs authentication and authorization with respect to a user or a device that is attempting to access the service providing apparatus . Note that authorization refers to determining whether to allow a user or a device access to a service. The user management unit executes a process for managing information relating to a user referred to as user information hereinafter . The device management unit executes a process for managing information relating to the device that is capable of cooperating with the service providing device referred to as device information hereinafter . The ticket management unit executes processes such as generation verification and management of an authentication ticket. Note that an authentication ticket refers to data indicating that a user has been authenticated. For example the authentication ticket may be implemented by a cookie. Also in some embodiments the authentication ticket may have an expiration date.

The database layer L is a layer that includes various databases storing various types of information. In the database layer L includes a tenant information storage unit a user information storage unit a device information storage unit and a screen configuration information storage unit

The tenant information storage unit stores attribute information of each tenant of the service providing device referred to as tenant information hereinafter . A tenant refers to a user unit contracting organization that has entered into a contract to use the cloud scan service. For example the tenant may be a group of one or more users such as a company or some other organization. In the present embodiment it is assumed that one user environment E1 corresponds to one tenant. The tenant information may include information items such as a tenant ID for identifying each tenant for example. The user information storage unit stores user information relating to each individual user belonging to the tenant simply referred to as user hereinafter . The user information may include information items such as a user ID for identifying each user and a password for authenticating the user for example. The user information may also include the tenant ID to which the user belongs. In this way uniqueness of the user ID may only have to be secured within each tenant. That is in the present embodiment each user is identified by a combination of the user ID and the tenant ID.

The device information storage unit stores device information of each device used by the tenant in association with the tenant ID of the tenant. The device information may include information items such as identification information for identifying each device referred to as device ID hereinafter for example.

The screen configuration information storage unit stores configuration information of a screen to be displayed on the device upon using the cloud scan service referred to as screen configuration information hereinafter . The screen configuration information may be set up beforehand by an administrator user and stored in association with a tenant ID and a user ID for example.

Note that in a case where the service providing apparatus is configured by a plurality of computers the application layer L the common service layer L and the database layer L may each form a network segment. Each element belonging to each layer may be implemented by a computer connected to the network segment of the corresponding layer.

The web UI unit uses a network to provide a user interface through a web page. In the present embodiment the web UI unit provides a user interface through a web page to the administrator terminal .

The device application is an example of an application program installed in the device for implementing the scan cloud service. For example the device application may be paired up with the scan server application to cooperate with the scan server application to implement the cloud scan service. For example the device application may prompt the device to scan a document and transmit image data of the scanned document to the scan server application

The application platform provides an environment for implementing the web UI unit and the device application for example.

Note that in the administrator terminal includes a browser unit . The browser unit may be implemented by a process executed by a CPU of the administrator terminal based on a web browser application program installed in the administer terminal for example. The browser unit may be configured to display a web page provided by the web UI unit and execute a process in response to an input to the web page for example.

In the following process steps executed in the information processing system 1 are described. is a sequence chart illustrating exemplary process steps of a registration process for registering the device that is to cooperate with the service providing apparatus according to the first embodiment. Note that in the present embodiment the device that is to cooperate with the service providing apparatus corresponds to the device that transmits scanned image data as processing data of the cloud scan service to the service providing apparatus . The service providing apparatus requires pre registration of the device in order to prevent unrestricted access from unauthorized devices.

In the present example it is assumed that a device registration screen is displayed at the administrator terminal by the browser unit at the start of the process sequence of . For example the browser unit may prompt the administrator terminal to display the device registration screen based on a web page provided by the web UI unit of the device to be registered.

When an administrator user enters information such as a user ID an administrator user password a tenant ID and attribute information of the device to be registered via the device registration screen the browser unit transmits a device registration request specifying the input information to the web UI unit step S . The attribute information of the device may include information indicating the location of the device for example. Note that although an administrator user is described as an operator in the present example the process of may also be performed in response to operations made by a customer engineer or the like for example.

Upon receiving the device registration request the web UI unit transmits a login request specifying the tenant ID the administrator ID and the password specified in the device registration request to the authentication unit of the service providing apparatus step S . Note that transmitting the login request corresponds to calling a method of the platform API .

The authentication unit refers to the user information storage unit to determine whether authentication based on the tenant ID the user ID and the password specified in the login request is successful.

Note that the role administrator or general of a user may be acquired upon starting use of the cloud scan service by entering a user ID and a password corresponding to the role and logging in for example.

On the other hand anonymous is a role that is assigned at the start of the cloud scan service to a user that does not enter a user ID and a password referred to as anonymous user hereinafter . In other words an anonymous user is an unspecified user. The authority given to the anonymous user may be the same as the authority given to the general user or the authority given to the anonymous user may be more limited compared to the authority given to the general user. Note that illustrates an example in which a record for an anonymous user is not registered in the user information storage unit

The authentication unit may determine that authentication is successful when the combination of the tenant ID the user ID and the password included in the login request is stored in the user information storage unit

If authentication is successful the authentication unit generates an authentication ticket and returns a response including the generated authentication ticket to the web UI unit step S . If authentication is unsuccessful the authentication ticket is not generated and a response indicating that the authentication has failed is returned to the web UI unit . In this case subsequent process steps are not executed. Note that strictly speaking the authentication ticket is generated by the ticket management unit but in an illustration of the ticket management unit is omitted for the sake of convenience. The ticket management unit may store the generated authentication ticket in the memory unit in association with the tenant ID and the user ID that have been successfully authenticated and the role assigned to the user ID for example.

Upon receiving the authentication ticket the web UI unit transmits a device registration request specifying the received authentication ticket the tenant ID a device ID and the attribute information of the device to the device management unit of the service providing apparatus step S . Note that transmitting the device registration request corresponds to calling a method of the platform API . Note that the attribute information and the tenant ID specified in the device registration request from the web UI unit may be the same as those specified in the device registration request issued in step S. The device ID is identification information of the device . That is the web UI unit acquires the device ID from the device and specifies the acquired device ID in the device registration request.

Upon receiving the device registration request the device management unit confirms the validity of the device registration request step S . For example the confirmation may involve determining the validity of the authentication ticket specified in the device registration request and determining whether the role stored in association with the authentication ticket is given the authority to implement the device registration request. If the authentication ticket is invalid or authority to implement the device registration request is not assigned to the role stored in association with the authentication ticket the device registration request is determined to be invalid and subsequent process steps are not executed.

If the validity of the device registration request is confirmed the device management unit registers the tenant ID the device ID and the attribute information specified in the device registration request in association with each other in the device information storage unit step S .

Next referring back to the device management unit transmits an anonymous user registration request specifying the tenant ID and the device ID specified in the device registration request to the user management unit step S . In turn the user management unit automatically generates a user ID referred to as anonymous user ID hereinafter and a password for the anonymous user according to a predetermined rule step S . Then the user management unit registers a record including the tenant ID specified in the anonymous user registration request and the generated anonymous user ID and password in the user information storage unit S .

In the anonymous user ID is configured to be in a specific format anonymous . In the present embodiment the above format corresponds to a naming convention for the anonymous user ID. In the present embodiment the device ID is included in the anonymous user ID. That is the anonymous user ID and the device ID are associated with each other within the anonymous user ID itself. However the anonymous user ID and the device ID may be associated with each other in other various ways. For example a separate storage unit may be provided for storing the anonymous user ID and the device ID in association with each other.

Also note that in the present embodiment the exclamation mark included in the anonymous user ID signifies a special symbol. For example upon receiving a display request to display a list of user information associated with a given tenant ID from the administrator terminal the user management unit may exclude user information with a user ID including the exclamation mark from user information to be displayed. In other words the exclamation mark corresponds to a special character that cannot ordinarily be used as characters constituting the user ID. By excluding user information of the anonymous user from the user information to be displayed confusion may be prevented from displaying user information of a user that is not contemplated by the administrator user for example. Also even in a case where the administrator user is aware of the existence of an anonymous user by excluding the user information of the anonymous user the administrator user may be prevented from erroneously performing operations such as updating or deleting the user information of the anonymous user for example. Note that the special symbol included in the anonymous user ID does not necessarily have to be an exclamation mark. For example some other symbol such as an asterisk may be used as the special symbol included in the anonymous user ID. Also in some embodiments the anonymous user ID does not have to include a special symbol. In this case the user management unit may exclude user information of a user with the role anonymous from the user information to be displayed.

In the present embodiment an anonymous user ID is generated for each device that is registered. However in some embodiments an anonymous user ID may be generated for each tenant tenant ID . In this case the corresponding tenant ID may be included in the anonymous user ID instead of the device ID for example.

Also in some embodiments the above steps S S may be collectively performed for a plurality of the devices . In this case the process steps executed by the device in may be executed by the administrator terminal for example. Further in step S the attribute information and the device ID of the plurality of devices may be collectively transmitted to the device management section for example.

Note that de registration of the device deletion of information stored in the device information storage unit may be performed by replacing the device registration request of step S in with a device deletion request and replacing the device registration request of step S with a device deletion request. In this case the attribute information of the device does not necessarily have to be specified in steps S and S. In step S the device management unit may delete from the device information storage unit a record that contains the tenant ID and the device ID specified in the device deletion request.

Further in step S the device management unit may transmit to the user management section an anonymous user deletion request instead of the anonymous user registration request. In turn the user management unit may delete from the user information storage unit a record that contains the tenant ID and the device ID that is specified in the anonymous user deletion request for example.

Note that in a case where a device and an account of an anonymous user record of the user information storage unit have a one to one correspondence the account of the anonymous user may be automatically deleted when the registration of the device is cancelled. In this way a process of deleting the record of the anonymous user may not have to be separately performed and the operation burden may be reduced for example.

Next process steps to be performed upon executing a job of the cloud scan service are described. is a sequence chart illustrating exemplary process steps that may be performed upon executing a job of the cloud scan service according to the first embodiment. Note that the exemplary process steps of are executed in response to operations input to the apparatus by a user.

In step S the device activates the device application in response to an operation instruction from the user. Upon being activated the device application may display a login screen on an operation panel of the device for example. The login screen may enable input of a user ID and a password for example.

Then the user may operate the login screen to input a login instruction step S . Note however that in the present example it is assumed that the user ID and the password are not input. In other words it is assumed that an anonymous login instruction has been input.

In response to the input of the anonymous login instruction the device application transmits to the authentication unit of the service providing apparatus a device authentication request specifying the tenant ID and the device ID stored in the device and device confidential information step S . The device confidential information corresponds to a password that is embedded in the program code of the device application . That is the device confidential information is information indicating that the corresponding tenant of the device is a legitimate purchaser of the device application . Note that transmitting the device authentication request in step S corresponds to calling a method of the platform API .

Upon receiving the device authentication request the authentication unit confirms the validity of the device confidential information specified in the device authentication request step S . For example the authentication unit may confirm whether the value of the device confidential information matches a value that is stored beforehand in the service providing apparatus .

If the device confidential information is valid the authentication unit determines whether the combination of the tenant ID and the device ID specified in the device authentication request is stored in the device information storage unit step S . If the combination of the tenant ID and the device ID is stored in the device information storage unit the authentication based on the device authentication request is deemed to be successful. Note however that a user ID is not specified in the above device authentication request. As such subsequent steps for determining whether the user has proper authority with respect to the request from the device cannot be performed. Accordingly the authentication unit executes a process for handling the user of the device that has been successfully authenticated by the device authentication request as an anonymous user.

Specifically the authentication unit acquires from the user information storage unit the role of the anonymous user that is stored in association with the tenant ID specified in the device authentication request and the anonymous user ID obtained by applying a predetermined naming convention to the device ID specified in the device authentication request steps S and S . Then the authentication unit transmits an authentication ticket issuance request specifying the tenant ID the anonymous user ID and the role to the ticket management unit step S . In turn the ticket management unit generates the authentication ticket and returns the generated authentication ticket to the authentication unit step S . The authentication ticket may be stored in the memory unit in association with the tenant ID the anonymous user ID and the role for example.

Next the authentication unit returns the authentication ticket generated by the ticket management unit to the device application step S . Hereinafter this authentication ticket may be specified in a request from the device application . Thus by returning the authentication ticket to the device application the device with the device application may be correlated to the anonymous user ID that is associated with the authentication ticket. Note that such a correlation may be performed using other conventional methods used in session management.

Next the device application starts a depiction process for depicting a screen of the scan cloud service step S . To depict the screen of the scan cloud service the device application transmits a screen configuration information acquisition request specifying the authentication ticket to the scan server application step S . The request is received by the access control unit . The access control unit transmits a verification request to verify the authentication ticket specified in the screen configuration information acquisition request to the ticket management unit step S .

The ticket management unit verifies the validity of the authentication ticket specified in the verification request. For example a verification may be made that the authentication ticket specified in the verification request matches one of the authentication tickets managed by the ticket management section and a verification may be made that the authentication ticket has not yet reached its expiration date. After the authentication ticket is verified the ticket management unit returns a response to the access control unit the response including information indicating that the authentication ticket is valid and the tenant ID the user ID and the role stored in the memory unit in association with the authentication ticket step S . On the other hand when the validity of the authentication ticket cannot be confirmed the ticket management unit returns a response indicating that the authentication ticket is invalid to the access control unit

If the response indicating that the authentication ticket is invalid is returned the access control unit terminates the process and refrains from executing subsequent process steps. If the response indicating that the authentication ticket is valid is returned the access control unit transmits a screen configuration information acquisition request specifying the tenant ID the user ID and the role included in the response to the scan server application step S .

The scan server application obtains from the screen configuration information storage unit screen configuration information stored in association with the tenant ID and the user ID or the role specified in the screen configuration information acquisition request and transmits the acquired screen configuration information to the access control unit step S . The access control unit then returns the screen configuration information to the device application step S . The device application generates a screen based on the screen configuration information and displays the generated screen on the operation panel of the device step S . Note that in the present example screen configuration information for an anonymous user is obtained and therefore a screen for an anonymous user is displayed. For example the screen for the anonymous user may include fewer setting items compared to a screen for a general user whose identity is specified.

Next the user inputs scan setting information via the screen and inputs a scan start instruction by operating the operation panel step S . In turn the device application prompts the device to scan a document that is placed on the device step S . Next the device transmits an upload request for uploading the image data of the scanned document to the scan server application step S . The upload request specifies the authentication ticket the image data and destination information indicating the online storage system corresponding to the uploading destination of the image data.

The upload request is received by the access control unit . The access control unit transmits a verification request to verify the authentication ticket specified in the upload request to the ticket management unit step S . The ticket management unit executes a process substantially similar to step S and transmits a response including information indicating whether the authentication ticket is valid to the access control unit step S .

If a response indicating that the authentication ticket is invalid is returned the access control unit terminates the process and refrains from executing subsequent process steps. If a response indicating that the authentication ticket is valid is returned the access control unit transmits an upload request for uploading the image data to the scan server application the uploading request specifying the tenant ID the user ID and the role included in the response and the image data and the destination information specified in the upload request step S .

The scan server application performs an uploading process for uploading the image data to the online storage system indicated by the destination information. In this case the scan server application executes the uploading process according to the role specified in the upload request. For example the image data may be uploaded in a folder for an anonymous user within the online storage system that is specified as the uploading destination. Alternatively a process may be performed on the image data according to the role before the image data is uploaded. For example a relatively high grade OCR optical character recognition process may be performed on the image data when the user corresponds to a general user or an administrator user whose identity is specified whereas a relatively low grade OCR process may be performed on the image data when the user corresponds to an anonymous user whose identity is not specified.

Note that if a user ID and a password are input to the login screen in steps S in step S the device application transmits a user authentication request specifying the tenant ID stored in the device and the input user ID and password to the authentication unit of the service providing apparatus . Note that transmitting the user authentication request corresponds to calling a method of the platform API that is different from the method for implementing the device authentication request described above.

Upon receiving the user authentication request the authentication unit confirms the validity of the device confidential information and further determines whether the combination of the tenant ID the user ID and the password specified in the user authentication request is stored in the user information storage unit . If the combination of the tenant ID the user ID and the password is stored in the user information storage unit in step S the authentication unit transmits an authentication ticket issuance request specifying the tenant ID the user ID and the role associated with the user ID to the ticket management unit . In this way an authentication ticket for a user whose identity is specified may be issued. Note that subsequent process steps may be identical to those described above in connection with the case where the user is an anonymous user.

Note that in some embodiments instead of determining whether to transmit a device authentication request or a user authentication request based on an input by the user the authentication request to be transmitted may be predetermined with respect to each device . For example the device application of the device that is set up to transmit a device authentication request may be configured to always transmit a device authentication request to the authentication unit without displaying the login screen for promoting an input of a user ID and a password. On the other hand the device application of the device that is set up to transmit a user authentication request may be configured to display the login screen for prompting an input of a user ID and a password and transmit a user authentication request specifying the user ID and password input via the login screen to the authentication unit . In this way the devices may be divided into a device that can be used by an unspecified user and a device that can only be used by a specified user whose identity is specified.

As described above according to an aspect of the first embodiment of the present invention a user may be able to use the cloud scan service via the device without entering a user ID and a password. In this way operability may be improved upon using a service provided via a network from the device . Also in the case where user information such as a user ID in not input authority may be limited to the scope of authority assigned to the role of an anonymous user. In this way an unspecified user whose identity is not specified may be prevented from making unrestricted use of a service provided via a network for example.

Note that the present invention is not limited to embodiments using a user ID and a password as authentication information but includes other embodiments using other authentication methods such as biometric authentication for example.

Also data to be uploaded from the device does not necessarily have to be image data scanned by the device . For example the data to be uploaded may be data captured by the device or data input to the device . In such case the device does not have to be an image forming apparatus. Also a request from the device to the service providing apparatus does not necessarily have to be limited to a request for uploading data. That is the service providing apparatus may be configured to provide a service in response to some other type of request from the device .

Note that to eliminate the need for a user to input authentication information a user ID and a password for an anonymous user may be stored in the device beforehand and the device application of the device may be configured to transmit a user authentication request specifying the user ID and the password for the anonymous user to the authentication unit for example.

However in this case the user ID and password for the anonymous user may have to be set up beforehand for each device . Also in a case where the user ID and password for the anonymous user has to be changed for some reason the user ID and password stored in each of device has to be changed in addition to changing the registration content of the user information storage unit . According to an aspect of the present embodiment such problems may be avoided.

In the following a second embodiment of the present invention is described. Note that the descriptions below relate to features of the second embodiment that differ from those of the first embodiment. Thus it may be assumed that features of the second embodiment that are not specifically mentioned below may be substantially identical to the first embodiment.

In the information processing system 2 illustrated in the service providing environment E2 further includes a user information management apparatus . The user information management apparatus is connected to the service providing apparatus via a network such as a LAN or the Internet to establish communication with the service providing apparatus . Note that the user information management apparatus may include one or more computers having the hardware configuration as illustrated in for example.

As illustrated in in the second embodiment the service providing apparatus does not have to include the user information storage unit and the user management unit . In the present embodiment the user information management apparatus includes the user information storage unit and the user management unit

In step S of the anonymous user registration request is transmitted from the device management unit of the service providing apparatus to the user management unit of the user information management apparatus via a network.

In step S of the authentication unit of the service providing apparatus transmits a role acquisition request for acquiring the role of the anonymous user to the user management unit of the user information management unit via a network the role acquisition request specifying the tenant ID specified in the device verification request and the anonymous user ID obtained by applying the predetermined naming convention to the tenant ID specified in the device authentication request. The user management unit acquires from the user information storage unit the role corresponding to the tenant ID and the anonymous user ID specified in the role acquisition request and returns a response specifying the acquired role to the authentication unit via a network step S .

According to an aspect of the second embodiment the user management unit and the user information storage unit are implemented using a separate computer from the service providing apparatus . In this way for example even in a case where a service providing apparatus is installed in each country or region such that a plurality of service providing apparatuses are used the user information may be centrally globally managed by the user information management apparatus .

Note that the information processing systems 1 and 2 of the above described embodiments are illustrative examples of an information processing system according to the present invention. The device management unit is an example of a device registration unit. The device information storage unit is an example of a first storage unit. The user management unit is an example of a generation unit and a deletion unit. The scan server application is an example of a processing unit. The user information storage unit is an example of a second storage unit. The device ID is an example of device identification information. The user ID is an example of user identification information. The service providing apparatus is an example of a service providing system. The user information management apparatus is an example of a user management system.

Although the present invention has been described above with reference to certain preferred embodiments the present invention is not limited to these embodiments and numerous variations and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The present application is based on and claims the benefit of priority of Japanese Patent Application No. 2013 229103 filed on Nov. 5 2013 and Japanese Patent Application No. 2014 223086 filed on Oct. 31 2014 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

