---

title: Apparatus and system for preventing wear to a component
abstract: In an embodiment, a system may include an aircraft clevis comprising two opposite sides and a longitudinal axis located between the two opposite sides. The longitudinal axis may be parallel to the two opposite sides. The system may include a slider positioned within the aircraft clevis and along the longitudinal axis. The system may include a clip configured to prevent the slider from rotating about the longitudinal axis by having at least a first portion of the clip coupled to one of the two opposite sides of the aircraft clevis and at least a second portion of the clip in contact with the slider.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09278752&OS=09278752&RS=09278752
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 09278752
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140317
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. N00019 02 C 3002 awarded by The Department of Defense. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This disclosure generally relates to mechanical systems and more particularly to an apparatus and system for preventing wear to a component.

Mechanical systems such as an aircraft automobile or watercraft often have components that are free to rotate Due to various forces occurring during operation of those systems a component may rotate into another structural component of the system. The rotating component may damage or wear itself or the other structural component. As a result the damaged or worn components must be replaced at a cost to the operator of the system. Moreover workers must spend significant time inspecting for damage in areas known to have rotating components.

Generally various forces in a mechanical system may cause undesirable rotation of some components that are free to rotate. For example an aircraft may have a component such as a slider positioned within a clevis that transfers forces between a vertical tail spar and a rudder spar. However due to forces exerted on the aircraft during operation such as vibration the component may rotate into the clevis because no other component prevents the rotation. When the component rotates into the clevis the component may damage itself or the clevis.

Some mechanical systems may attempt to prevent damage to the structural components using a sacrificial part such as an integral clevis pad or a washer. However those parts do not prevent rotation because they do not maintain contact with both the rotating component and the adjacent structural component instead they merely reduce the damage to the structural component or the rotating component by absorbing the impact. Since the sacrificial parts absorb impact rather than prevent rotation they become damaged from the rotating component s repeated impacts. Damage to the sacrificial part increases the likelihood that further impacts may damage the clevis or the rotating part and necessitates periodic inspections.

Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure include in one embodiment an apparatus that is operable to prevent the slider from contacting an aircraft clevis. The apparatus may include a first member and a second member for positioning the apparatus between a first arm and a second arm of an aircraft clevis. The first member and the second member are each positioned on opposite sides of a longitudinal axis and the longitudinal axis is parallel to at least a portion of the first member and the second member and substantially midway between the first member and the second member. The first member and the second member form an opening at a first end and the opening is configured to receive a slider positioned along the longitudinal axis. The apparatus may include a u shaped member coupling the first member and the second member at a second end that is opposite to the first end. The apparatus includes a first prong protruding from a top portion of the first member towards the longitudinal axis with at least a portion of the first prong for contacting the slider. The apparatus includes a second prong protruding from a bottom portion of the first member towards the longitudinal axis with at least a portion of the second prong for contacting the slider. The apparatus includes a first aperture and a second aperture configured to receive a bolt and positioned proximate to the first end. The apparatus includes a third prong protruding from a top portion of the second member towards the longitudinal axis with at least a portion of the third prong for contacting the slider and a fourth prong protruding from a bottom portion of the second member towards the longitudinal axis with at least a portion of the fourth prong for contacting the slider. Moreover at least a portion of the first member is for coupling to the first arm of the aircraft clevis.

The apparatus provides numerous advantages. For example the apparatus may resist rotation of one component into an adjacent structural component thereby preventing damage to both components. Additionally preventing damage to these components will save replacement part costs and increase workplace efficiency due to the elimination of the need to periodically inspect the often damaged components. Moreover the apparatus does not itself wear because it is not repeatedly abraded. Accordingly the apparatus eliminates the need for a sacrificial part such as a wear washer or an integral clevis pad which may not maintain contact with both the clevis and the slider . Another advantage of the apparatus is that it centers a component that has a tendency to rotate due to its operating environment thereby providing an optimal alignment of that component. Yet another advantage of the apparatus is that its weight is typically less than the weight of traditional sacrificial parts because it is not repeatedly abraded thereby eliminating the need for a thick part.

Additional details are discussed in . shows an example mechanical system with an area having an example rotating component that may appear in an example mechanical system. shows a section view of an example slider in an upright position and shows a section view of an example slider in a rotated position. shows an example stabilizing component that may be used to prevent rotation in a mechanical system. show various views of an example stabilizing component that may be used to prevent rotation in a mechanical system.

Area of mechanical system illustrated as an aircraft in this example includes vertical tail spar rudder spar clevis slider and bolt in certain embodiments. Although area is illustrated as an area of an aircraft in this example embodiment area may be any area of a mechanical system having rotating components Although the rotating component may be any rotating component it will be discussed with reference to slider . In an embodiment vertical tail spar may be coupled to rudder spar using clevis slider and bolt . Slider may be coupled to clevis using bolt in some embodiments. Slider may be attached to a spherical bearing in some embodiments.

Vertical tail spar and rudder spar may be a structural member of an aircraft in an embodiment. For example vertical tail spar may be a structural member located in the tail area of an aircraft for carrying various loads of the aircraft. In some embodiments vertical tail spar and rudder spar may be made of a metal. In other embodiments vertical tail spar and rudder spar may be a composite material. Although area is illustrated as having vertical tail spar and rudder spar in this embodiment other mechanical systems may not include vertical tail spar and rudder spar such as a boat or a car. As noted above vertical tail spar and rudder spar are coupled together by clevis slider and bolt .

Clevis may be any component used to couple other components together in certain embodiments. For example clevis may couple vertical tail spar to rudder spar . Clevis may have oppositely disposed clevis sides with axis located between clevis sides in an embodiment. In that embodiment axis may be parallel to clevis sides . Clevis may have clevis u shaped end in some embodiments. At an end opposite to clevis u shaped end clevis may have a free end. In some embodiments clevis may have holes through which bolts are inserted. Clevis may be made of any material such as metal or plastic. Clevis may be an aircraft clevis in an embodiment. In other embodiments clevis may be any type of clevis. For example clevis may be located in a boat or a car.

Slider may be any component used to transfer loads between components in an embodiment. For example slider may transfer loads from rudder spar to vertical tail spar . In certain embodiments slider may be any component used to resolve misalignment. In other embodiments slider may be any rotating component. For example slider may be a swing linkage or an actuator push rod. In some embodiments slider may be a rod end pin with a bearing. Slider may be coupled to a spherical bearing in some embodiments. In an embodiment slider may be positioned within the aircraft clevis. For example slider may be positioned between two longitudinal arms of clevis . In that example while slider is positioned between the two longitudinal arms of clevis portions of slider may extend beyond the two longitudinal arms. In some embodiments however portions of slider may not extend beyond the two longitudinal arms of clevis . In an embodiment slider is positioned on a longitudinal axis of clevis discussed above . For example slider may be positioned on a longitudinal axis in the center of the two longitudinal arms of clevis . As another example slider may be positioned on a longitudinal axis that is slightly off centered between the two longitudinal arms of clevis . Slider is coupled to clevis using bolt in some embodiments.

Bolt may be any standard bolt in some embodiments. In other embodiments bolt may be any fastener such as a screw a dowel a rivet or a pin. While bolt couples clevis and slider bolt also transfers loads between vertical tail spar and rudder spar .

Stabilizing component may also be in contact with a rotating component such as slider in an embodiment. For example as discussed in detail below stabilizing component may have multiple prongs that maintain contact with slider . In an embodiment stabilizing component may be a clip configured to prevent slider from rotating about a longitudinal axis of clevis by having at least a portion of the clip coupled to one of the two opposite sides of clevis and at least a second portion of the clip in contact with slider . Because stabilizing component maintains contact with slider and is coupled to clevis stabilizing component prevents slider from rotating within clevis . In that manner stabilizing component may prevent damage to various components such as clevis and slider thereby saving replacement costs and increasing workplace efficiency by eliminating the need for periodic inspections.

Members may be a first or second member positioned on opposite sides of longitudinal axis in an embodiment. Members are generally positioned parallel to each other and to longitudinal axis . In some embodiments members are each equidistant from longitudinal axis . Members may extend longitudinally in a direction parallel to longitudinal axis . Members may have a length greater than their height in certain embodiments. Generally members have an exterior wall that couples to another component using a fastener an adhesive or a sealant. For example an exterior wall of members may couple to an interior wall of clevis using a sealant. In some embodiments not all of the entire members may couple to the wall of another component. For example a portion of member may couple to one side of an aircraft clevis arm while a portion of member may couple to an oppositely disposed side of an aircraft clevis arm. In other embodiments members may be coupled to clevis using a fastener such as a bolt a pin a rivet a screw or any other fastener. Members may be made of any material such as a metal plastic or composite material. For example members may be made of spring steel. In an embodiment the interior and or exterior of members may include an abrasion resistant finish to prevent wear. For example the abrasion resistant finish may be a Teflon coating. As another example the abrasion resistant finish may be a smooth surface finish. As yet another example the abrasion resistant finish may be a chrome plating. Members may form an opening at an end opposite to u shaped member in an embodiment. Members are joined at u shaped member in certain embodiments.

U shaped member couples member to member in an embodiment. Generally u shaped member may be shaped based on the shape of the structural component within which it is positioned. For example u shaped member may have a u shaped curve as shown in the embodiment of . U shaped curve allows stabilizing component to match the structure of clevis in an embodiment. As another example u shaped member may have square edges rather than curved edges. U shaped member may have the same height as members in an embodiment. Members and u shaped member may be a single integral component in an embodiment. In other embodiments u shaped member may be a separate component that couples member to member . U shaped member may be made of the same material as members in an embodiment. For example u shaped member may be made of a metal e.g. spring steel plastic or composite material. In an embodiment the interior and or exterior of u shaped member may include an abrasion resistant finish to prevent wear. For example the abrasion resistant finish may be a Teflon coating. As another example the abrasion resistant finish may be a smooth surface finish. As yet another example the abrasion resistant finish may be a chrome plating.

Prongs generally are adapted to maintain contact with another component to prevent that component from rotating. For example prongs may each maintain contact with at least a portion of slider to prevent slider from rotating into clevis . In addition prongs may maintain a component s position along longitudinal axis . For example prongs may maintain an upright position of slider along or on longitudinal axis . Prongs may protrude from member and prongs may protrude from member in an embodiment. In some embodiments there may be a small gap between slider and prongs for installation tolerance relief. Prongs and may protrude upward from a top portion of member and member respectively and inward towards longitudinal axis . Prongs and may protrude downward from a bottom portion of member and member respectively and inward towards longitudinal axis . In some embodiments prongs may be prewarped to ensure that prongs maintain contact with slider . Although illustrated in as including four prongs any number of prongs may be used.

Prongs may be any shape required to maintain contact with another component. The shape of prongs may be configured according to how much contact is needed between prongs and a rotating component such as slider . In an embodiment prongs may have a wave shape. For example the wave shape may be a straight wave as illustrated by prongs in . In that example the straight wave is the substantially straight portion of prongs . Prongs may contact another component in the straight portion of the wave. As another example the wave shape may be a circular wave. As yet another example prongs may be tapered inwards towards longitudinal axis to contact a rotating component such as slider at an angle. Although discussed as a wave shape any shape adapted to maintain contact with another component can be used such as an arch shape.

Prongs may be made of the same material as members and u shaped member in an embodiment. For example prongs may be made of any metal e.g. spring steel plastic or composite material. In an embodiment the interior and or exterior of prongs may include an abrasion resistant finish to prevent wear to prongs and the rotating component such as slider . For example the abrasion resistant finish may be a Teflon coating. As another example the abrasion resistant finish may be a smooth surface finish. As yet another example the abrasion resistant finish may be a chrome plating.

Longitudinal axis may be positioned substantially midway between members in an embodiment. In some embodiments longitudinal axis may be parallel to at least a portion of members . Longitudinal axis may also be parallel to the two oppositely disposed arms of clevis . Longitudinal axis may be on the same axis as axis in an embodiment.

Aperture and aperture may be located on members and respectively in certain embodiments. In an embodiment apertures may be positioned near an end that is opposed to u shaped member . Apertures may be positioned between top prongs and bottom prongs in an embodiment. Apertures are generally adapted to receive a bolt that secures slider to clevis in an embodiment. Although illustrated as a circular aperture apertures may be any shape such as an elliptical aperture or any other shape so that a bolt can be placed through apertures . Additionally apertures may be adapted to receive a bolt of any size.

Bolt axis may be an axis normal to apertures in certain embodiments. Bolt axis may define an axis through which the center of bolt passes. Bolt axis may be positioned at a center point of each of apertures 

In operation two components of mechanical system such vertical tail spar and rudder spar of an aircraft may be coupled together using clevis . Slider may be positioned within clevis on axis and coupled to clevis using bolt which may be inserted through a hole of slider into clevis bolt holes . Stabilizing component may be positioned within clevis and coupled to clevis using a fastener an adhesive or a sealant such as polysulfide . For example member of stabilizing component may be bonded to clevis side using a sealant and member of stabilizing component may be bonded to clevis side using the sealant. Stabilizing component may also be in contact with slider . For example prongs may each maintain contact with a portion of slider in an embodiment. Because stabilizing component is coupled to clevis and maintains contact with slider stabilizing component prevents slider from rotating into clevis . As a result many advantages are achieved.

Stabilizing component has many advantages. Generally stabilizing component resists rotation of one component into an adjacent structural component thereby preventing damage to both components. For example as a result of coupling stabilizing component to clevis and maintaining contact between each of prongs and slider stabilizing component may prevent slider from rotating into clevis . Because the repeated impacts of slider into clevis are eliminated stabilizing component prevents damage to both clevis and slider . Additionally preventing damage to these components will save replacement part costs and increase workplace efficiency due to the elimination of the need to periodically inspect clevis and slider . Moreover stabilizing component does not itself wear because it is not repeatedly abraded. Accordingly stabilizing component eliminates the need for a sacrificial part such as a wear washer which may not maintain contact with both the clevis and the slider . Another advantage of stabilizing component is that is centers a component that has a tendency to rotate due to its operating environment thereby providing an optimal alignment of that component. Yet another advantage of stabilizing component is that its weight is typically less than the weight of traditional sacrificial parts because it is not repeatedly abraded thereby eliminating the need for it to be a thick part.

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to the embodiments described herein without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Although embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages have been described in detail it should be understood that various other changes substitutions and alterations may be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the claims below. For example although particular embodiments of the disclosure have been described with reference to an aircraft the elements disclosed may apply to any other mechanical systems.

