---

title: Display device
abstract: To provide a display device that gives a viewer a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth or a natural stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two-dimensional image, a display device including a display portion having a curved surface is provided. The display portion may be bent in a horizontal direction or a vertical direction. Alternatively, the display portion may have a convex surface or a concave surface on a display surface side. The display device may include a frame portion. A display device including a frame portion and a display portion which has a display surface on a frame portion side, is located so as to be apart from the frame portion with a distance therebetween, and has a curved surface, in which the display portion overlaps with an opening of the frame portion, and an end portion of the display portion overlaps with the frame portion, is provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09572268&OS=09572268&RS=09572268
owner: Semiconductor Energy Laboratory Co., Ltd.
number: 09572268
owner_city: Kanagawa-ken
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20141124
---
One embodiment of the present invention relates to a display device a semiconductor device and a light emitting device.

Note that one embodiment of the present invention is not limited to the above technical field. One embodiment of the invention disclosed in this specification and the like relates to an object a method and a manufacturing method. In addition one embodiment of the present invention relates to a process a machine manufacture or a composition of matter. Specifically examples of the technical field of one embodiment of the present invention disclosed in this specification include a display device a semiconductor device a light emitting device a power storage device a storage device an electronic device a lighting device an input device e.g. a touch sensor an output device an input output device e.g. a touch panel a driving method thereof and a manufacturing method thereof

A variety of display devices ranging from large display devices such as television receivers to small display devices such as cellular phones are put on the market. As higher value added products display devices capable of displaying stereoscopic images have been actively developed to provide more realistic images.

Physiological factors in recognition of objects as stereoscopic objects by humans are binocular parallax convergence focus slide motion parallax object size spatial layout contrast shading and the like.

For example a display device that displays a stereoscopic image using binocular disparity is known. Such a display device is configured to display on one screen an image to be seen from the position of the left eye of a viewer an image for left eye and an image to be seen from the position of the right eye of the viewer an image for right eye . The viewer sees the image for left eye with the left eye and the image for right eye with the right eye and is thus allowed to see a stereoscopic image.

As one example of display devices using eyeglasses there is a display device which displays an image for left eye and an image for right eye alternately on a screen in synchronization with a shutter provided in eyeglasses whereby the left eye of a viewer is allowed to see only the image for left eye and the right eye of the viewer is allowed to see only the image for right eye. Thus the viewer can see a stereoscopic image.

Furthermore in a display device using a parallax barrier which allows a viewer to see a stereoscopic image with naked eyes a screen is divided into a plurality of regions for left eye and a plurality of regions for right eye e.g. strip like regions arranged side by side. A parallax barrier is provided to overlap with the boundaries of the regions. On the divided screen an image for left eye and an image for right eye are displayed at the same time. With the parallax barrier the regions for displaying the image for right eye are hidden from the left eye of a viewer and the regions for displaying the image for left eye are hidden from the right eye of the viewer consequently the left eye is allowed to see only the image for left eye and the right eye is allowed to see only the image for right eye. Thus the viewer can see a stereoscopic image.

Note that a display device including a switchable parallax barrier for achieving switching between a two dimensional image display mode and a stereoscopic image display mode is known Patent Document 1 .

In addition a light emitting element using an electroluminescence hereinafter also referred to as EL phenomenon is also known. This light emitting element is a self luminous type therefore high contrast and high speed of response to an input signal are achieved. Furthermore a display device to which this light emitting element is applied and which consumes low power is manufactured in a simple process and is easily adapted to the increase in definition and the size of a substrate is known Patent Document 2 .

A display device utilizing eyeglasses with shutters displays images for left eye and images for right eye alternately on a screen which results in an increase in the frequency of image writing to a pixel portion in one frame period as compared with the case of displaying a two dimensional image. This requires a driver circuit which can be driven at high frequency and also increases the power consumption of the display device.

In a display device with a parallax barrier the number of pixels that contribute to image display for left eye and the number of pixels that contribute to image display for right eye in the horizontal direction of a pixel portion are reduced to half of the actual number which prevents high definition images from being displayed.

Accordingly it is demanded that a display device can display a two dimensional image that gives a viewer a strong sense of depth or stereoscopic effect instead of images with binocular disparity such as images for left eye and images for right eye.

It is an object of one embodiment of the present invention to give a viewer a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image. Another object of one embodiment of the present invention is to give a viewer a natural stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image.

Another object of one embodiment of the present invention is to provide a novel display device. Another object of one embodiment of the present invention is to provide a display device that gives a viewer a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image. Another object of one embodiment of the present invention is to provide a display device that gives a viewer a natural stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image. Another object of one embodiment of the present invention is to provide a display device that gives a viewer less fatigue and a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image. Another object of one embodiment of the present invention is to provide a display device that gives a viewer less fatigue and a natural stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image.

Note that the description of these objects does not disturb the existence of other objects. In one embodiment of the present invention there is no need to achieve all the objects. Other objects will be apparent from and can be derived from the description of the specification the drawings the claims and the like.

One embodiment of the present invention is a display device including a display portion having a curved surface.

In the above display device the display portion may be bent in a horizontal direction. In addition in the display device the display portion may be bendable in a horizontal direction.

In the above display device the display portion may be bent in a vertical direction. In addition in the display device the display portion may be bendable in a vertical direction.

In the above display device the display portion may have a convex surface a convex curved surface on the display surface side. In addition in the display device the display portion may be able to have a convex surface on the display surface side.

In the above display device the display portion may have a concave surface a concave curved surface on the display surface side. In addition in the display device the display portion may be able to have a concave surface on the display surface side.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a display device includes a frame portion and a display portion which has a display surface on a frame portion side which is located so as to be apart from the frame portion with a distance therebetween and which has a curved surface. The display portion overlaps with an opening of the frame portion and an end portion of the display portion overlaps with the frame portion.

In this specification the distance between the frame portion and the display portion corresponds to a distance between the display surface of the display portion and the surface of the frame portion on a viewer side. That is the distance between the frame portion and the display portion is the sum of the distance between the display surface of the display portion and the surface of the frame portion facing the display surface and the thickness of the frame portion itself a distance between a surface of the frame portion facing the display surface and a surface of the frame portion on the viewer side . Even when the frame portion and the display portion are in contact with each other the frame portion and the display portion are located so as to be apart from each other with a distance therebetween by the thickness of the frame portion.

In the above display device it is preferable that a corner of an inner frame of the frame portion have curvature.

In the above display device it is preferable that the corner of the inner frame of the frame portion have larger curvature than a corner of the display portion.

In the above display device it is preferable that the curvature of the corner of the inner frame of the frame portion be variable.

In the above display device it is preferable that the size of the inner frame of the frame portion be variable.

In the above display device it is preferable that the frame portion be attachable and detachable freely.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a display device includes a display portion that can be curved an arithmetic processing portion which is supplied with image data and which can supply a control signal and a drive control portion which is supplied with the control signal and which can change the degree or the direction of a curvature of the display portion. The arithmetic processing portion generates the control signal by analyzing the image data.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a display device includes a frame portion that can be curved a display portion that can be curved an arithmetic processing portion which is supplied with image data and which can supply a control signal and a drive control portion which is supplied with the control signal and which can change the degrees or the directions of curvatures of the display portion and the frame portion. The arithmetic processing portion generates the control signal by analyzing the image data.

Note that the drive control portion may be able to change the degree of an inclination of the frame portion the shape of the inner frame of the frame portion or the like instead of or in addition to the degree or the direction of a curvature of the frame portion.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a display device includes a frame portion a light transmitting layer and a display portion. The light transmitting layer includes a viewing surface and a convex surface opposite to each other. The refractive index of the light transmitting layer is higher than the refractive index of the air. The display portion includes an end portion overlapping with the frame portion with the light transmitting layer therebetween. The display portion includes a portion overlapping with an opening of the frame portion and the light transmitting layer. A plurality of display elements capable of displaying an image toward the viewing surface are provided along the convex surface in the display portion. In the above structure the viewing surface may be a plane that intersects the convex surface at at least three points.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a viewer can have a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image. According to one embodiment of the present invention a viewer can have a natural stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a novel display device can be provided. According to one embodiment of the present invention a display device that gives a viewer a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image can be provided. According to one embodiment of the present invention a display device that gives a viewer a natural stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image can be provided. According to one embodiment of the present invention a display device that gives a viewer less fatigue and a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image can be provided. According to one embodiment of the present invention a display device that gives a viewer less fatigue and a natural stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image can be provided.

Note that the description of these effects does not disturb the existence of other effects. One embodiment of the present invention does not necessarily achieve all the objects listed above. Other effects will be apparent from and can be derived from the description of the specification the drawings the claims and the like.

Embodiments will be described in detail with reference to drawings. Note that the present invention is not limited to the description below and it is easily understood by those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the present invention should not be interpreted as being limited to the content of the embodiment modes below.

Note that in the structures of the invention described below the same portions or portions having similar functions are denoted by the same reference numerals in different drawings and description of such portions is not repeated. Furthermore the same hatching pattern is applied to portions having similar functions and the portions are not especially denoted by reference numerals in some cases.

In addition the position size range or the like of each structure illustrated in drawings and the like is not accurately represented in some cases for easy understanding. Therefore the disclosed invention is not necessarily limited to the position the size the range or the like disclosed in the drawings and the like.

In this embodiment a display device of one embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to FIGS. A to D FIGS. A to B 

One embodiment of the present invention is a display device including a display portion having a curved surface.

A viewer can have a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a displayed two dimensional image of a bent display portion a curved display portion as compared with a smooth display portion.

The display portion may be bent in a horizontal direction or a vertical direction. Alternatively the display portion may have a convex surface a convex curved surface or a concave surface a concave curved surface on a display surface side or on a viewer side .

The display portion may be flexible for example the display portion may be bendable in a horizontal direction or a vertical direction. Alternatively the display portion may be able to have a convex surface or a concave surface on the display surface side.

Note that the display portion may be controlled by a viewer himself herself or may be automatically controlled by the display device or the display portion. The display portion may be curved while reproducing an image. Alternatively the shape of the display portion may be constant while reproducing an image and bendable while not operating.

FIGS. A to D illustrate examples of the display device of one embodiment of the present invention. Note that in each display device in FIGS. A B C and D the display surface of the display device is located on a viewer side a right eye R and a left eye L .

A display device illustrated in FIGS. A and A includes a display portion and a non display portion . The display portion is bent in a horizontal direction here in a major axis direction of the display portion and includes a convex surface a convex curved surface on a display surface side a viewer side .

A display device illustrated in FIGS. B and B includes a display portion and a non display portion . The display portion is bent in a horizontal direction and includes a concave surface a concave curved surface on a display surface side a viewer side .

A display device illustrated in FIGS. C and C includes a display portion and a non display portion . The display portion is bent in a vertical direction here in a minor axis direction of the display portion and includes a convex surface on a display surface side a viewer side .

A display device illustrated in FIGS. D and D includes a display portion and a non display portion . The display portion is bent in a vertical direction and includes a concave surface on a display surface side a viewer side .

In any of the structures in FIGS. A B C and D a viewer can feel a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image. A stereoscopic effect or a sense of depth in a horizontal direction is stronger than that in a vertical direction see Example 3 described later . In addition a stereoscopic effect or a sense of depth of a display device including a convex surface on a viewer side is stronger than that of a display device including a concave surface see Example 3 described later .

Like a display device illustrated in FIGS. A and A the display device of one embodiment of the present invention may include the display portion having a plurality of curved surfaces. The display portion is bent in a horizontal direction and includes a convex surface and a concave surface on a display surface side.

Like a display device illustrated in the display device of one embodiment of the present invention does not necessarily have a bend line which is parallel or perpendicular to a side of the display device or the display portion and may be bent in a diagonal direction.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a display device includes a frame portion and a display portion which has a display surface on a frame portion side which is located so as to be apart from the frame portion with a distance therebetween and which has a curved surface. The display portion overlaps with an opening of the frame portion and an end portion of the display portion overlaps with the frame portion.

The display device of one embodiment of the present invention includes the frame portion between a viewer and the display portion whereby the viewer has an optical illusion that the position of the display portion is different from actual one stereoscopic information is corrected by brain and thus the viewer can feel a stereoscopic effect or a sense of depth in a two dimensional image.

When the degree of a curvature or an inclination of the frame portion the shape or the size of the opening of the frame portion or the like is constant in the display device a problem might be caused. For example the way a viewer feels a stereoscopic effect or a sense of depth differs depending on a viewer and an appropriate range of conditions such as the degree of a curvature or an inclination of the frame portion the shape or the size of the opening of the frame portion and the like might vary among individuals. In the case where these conditions are not suitable for a viewer the viewer cannot feel a stereoscopic effect or a sense of depth in a two dimensional image easily in some cases even by viewing the display portion through the opening of the frame portion. In contrast when the stereoscopic effect or sense of depth is too strong loads of the brain or eyes become high and accordingly the viewer might have severe strain. Furthermore depending on an image displayed on the display portion the intensity of a stereoscopic effect or a sense of depth might be changed without intent or might not be changed though intended to be changed.

Thus in the display device of one embodiment of the present invention at least any one of a curvature of the frame portion an inclination of the frame portion the shape of the opening of the frame portion the size of the frame portion and the like is variable. Accordingly the frame can be adjusted so that a viewer can feel a natural stereoscopic effect and can feel less fatigue. In addition by adjusting the frame portion depending on an image displayed on the display portion a change of the intensity of a stereoscopic effect or a sense of depth without intent can be suppressed or the intensity of a stereoscopic effect or a sense of depth can be changed intentionally. Accordingly in the display device of one embodiment of the present invention a viewer can feel a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image and can feel less fatigue.

Note that the frame portion may be controlled by a viewer himself herself or may be automatically controlled by the display device or the frame portion. In addition a curvature of the frame portion an inclination of the frame portion the shape of the opening of the frame portion or the size of the frame portion may be changed while an image is reproduced. Alternatively the shape of the frame portion may be constant while reproducing an image and can be changed while not operating.

A positional relation between the display portion and the frame portion of the display device of one embodiment of the present invention is described with a perspective view of a display device illustrated in and a front view a view viewed from the display surface side and a top view of the display device illustrated in .

The display device in includes a display portion a non display portion and a frame portion . The display portion includes a display surface on the frame portion side. The display portion and the frame portion are located so as to be apart from each other with a distance L therebetween. The display portion overlaps with an opening of the frame portion and an end portion of the display portion overlaps with the frame portion . Moreover the display portion has a curved surface. Although an example in which the display portion is bent in a horizontal direction and has a convex surface on the display surface side is illustrated here one embodiment of the present invention is not limited thereto.

In this specification the distance between the frame portion and the display portion corresponds to a distance between the display surface of the display portion and the surface of the frame portion on a viewer side. That is the distance between the frame portion and the display portion is the sum of the distance between the display surface of the display portion and the surface of the frame portion facing the display surface and the thickness of the frame portion itself a distance between a surface of the frame portion facing the display surface and a surface of the frame portion on the viewer side . Even when the frame portion and the display portion are in contact with each other the frame portion and the display portion are located so as to be apart from each other with a distance therebetween by the thickness of the frame portion .

For example the distance L between the frame portion and the display portion is 1 mm or more preferably 1 cm or more further preferably 5 cm or more in which case a viewer can feel a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image.

Although the distance between the frame portion and the display portion differs depending on the position of the display portion such as the end portion or the center portion the distance is at least greater than 0 preferably 1 mm or more in part of the display portion . In particular the minimum distance between the display surface of the display portion and the surface of the frame portion on the viewer side is 1 cm or more preferably 5 cm or more in which case the viewer can feel a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image which is displayed on the entire surface of the display portion.

In addition illustrates the case where a long side W of the display portion is longer than a long side W of the opening of the frame portion and a short side of the display portion is longer than a short side of the opening of the frame portion . According to one embodiment of the present invention without limitation to such a structure either a long side or a short side of the display portion may be longer than that of the opening of the frame portion for example.

Moreover even when the proportion of display in the display portion that is visible for a viewer is less than 50 the viewer can feel a stereoscopic effect or a sense of depth. However the viewer grasps the entire display with difficulty views the display unnaturally or feels strong fatigue. Thus it is preferable that a viewer who faces the display surface of the display device can view 50 or more preferably 70 or more further preferably 90 or more of display in the display portion through the opening of the frame portion.

A viewer of the display device see a right eye R and a left eye L in views a two dimensional image a still image or a moving image displayed on the display portion through the opening of the frame portion . The viewer can feel a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in the two dimensional image by viewing display in the display portion through the opening of the frame portion as compared with the case of viewing display in the display portion without through the opening of the frame portion .

The viewer can feel a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image even when viewing the display portion with one eye. The viewer can feel a stronger stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image by viewing the display portion with both eyes and feeling a difference between information that comes into the right eye and information that comes into the left eye.

Note that the frame portion may be attachable and detachable freely. The display device can be used without the frame portion when display which does not require a stereoscopic effect or a sense of depth is made on the display portion . In addition a plurality of attachable and detachable frame portions whose openings differ in size shape or the like may be prepared and the frame portions may be replaced with each other. Note that the frame portion may be attached to a display panel the display portion may store the display panel or may be worn on the head of a viewer.

The frame portion may be bent in a horizontal direction or a vertical direction. Alternatively the frame portion may have a convex surface a convex curved surface or a concave surface a concave curved surface on a display surface side or on a viewer side .

The frame portion may be flexible for example the frame portion may be bendable in a horizontal direction or a vertical direction. Alternatively the frame portion may be able to have a convex surface or a concave surface on the display surface side.

A frame portion illustrated in each of is bent in a horizontal direction here in a major axis direction of the display portion in a manner similar to that of a display portion and includes a convex surface a convex curved surface on a viewer side.

The degree of a curvature of the display portion may be the same as or different from that of a curvature of the frame portion . For example the display portion and the frame portion may be bent with the same curvature as illustrated in or the display portion and the frame portion may be bent with different curvatures as illustrated in . The bend line of the display portion and the bend line of the frame portion may overlap with each other or may not overlap with each other.

In a frame portion is bent in a horizontal direction and a display portion is bent in a vertical direction. Each of the frame portion and the display portion has a convex surface on a viewer side.

In a frame portion is bent in a vertical direction and a display portion is bent in a horizontal direction. Each of the frame portion and the display portion has a concave surface on a viewer side.

In a frame portion includes a concave surface on a viewer side and a display portion includes a convex surface on the viewer side. Each of the frame portion and the display portion is bent in a horizontal direction.

Although illustrate examples in each of which the display portion the frame portion and a viewer a right eye R and a left eye L face one another one embodiment of the present invention is not limited thereto. For example in a display device illustrated in a viewer a right eye R and a left eye L does not face a display portion when seeing display in the display portion through an opening of a frame portion .

The display device in includes a display portion having flexibility a non display portion and a plurality of driver portions . The driver portions can be driven independently. The degree the direction or the like of a curvature of the display portion can be adjusted in accordance with the lengths or the positions of the driver portions attached to a structure body . The driver portions may be movable in a vertical direction and a horizontal direction on the surface of the structure body as indicated by arrows. Alternatively the length of the driver portion in a direction perpendicular to the surface of the structure body may be variable. A contact between the driver portion and the display portion or the non display portion may be moved.

The number of driver portions is not limited. In the case where there is a plurality of driver portions the plurality of driver portions may be driven independently or at least part of the driver portions may be driven in synchronization with each other.

Note that the driver portions may be attached to a member of the display device or may be attached to a wall surface or a floor on which the display device is disposed. That is the structure body may be included or may not be included in the display device.

The display device in includes a processing portion . For example the degree the direction or the like of a curvature of the display portion can be changed in accordance with the content of a moving image by having the processing portion . Accordingly such a case is preferable because a viewer can feel a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image.

Specifically for example when a moving image in which a moving object approaches toward a viewer is displayed the display portion may be transformed so as to have a convex surface on a viewer side.

The processing portion includes an arithmetic processing portion a memory portion and a drive control portion shown in .

An image data displayed on the display portion is supplied to the arithmetic processing portion. The arithmetic processing portion generates a control signal by analyzing the supplied image data.

As the analysis of the image data spectrum analysis content analysis and detection of expansion or movement zoom in zoom out pan tilt panning the speed of movement the direction of movement or the like can be given.

In the case where an audio data is supplied to the arithmetic processing portion a control signal may be generated by analyzing the supplied audio data. Alternatively a control signal may be generated on the basis of the analysis results of both the image data and the audio data.

As the analysis of the audio data spectrum analysis content analysis sound source analysis and separate extraction of music human voice or the like can be given.

Furthermore as a result of detecting a focal length or a sight line of a viewer or evaluating sensitivity of a stereoscopic effect fatigue or the like of the viewer when the viewer views the display portion data of the results are supplied to the arithmetic portion in which case a control signal may be generated by analyzing the data.

For example in sensitivity evaluation carried out in advance which curved surface of the display portion a plurality of viewers of the display device can feel a strong stereoscopic effect is examined Each viewer selects own data obtained in the sensitivity evaluation when using the display device. As a result a control signal generated by analyzing the data in the arithmetic processing portion is supplied from the arithmetic processing portion to the drive control portion. Then the drive control portion transforms the display portion to have a curved surface suitable for a viewer on the basis of the control signal.

In addition the viewer can select the intensity and existence of a stereoscopic effect the degree of a curvature of the display portion the degree of a curvature or an inclination of the frame portion or the shape the size or the like of an inner frame of the frame portion and a signal based on the selection may be supplied to the arithmetic processing portion. In the arithmetic processing portion a control signal based on the signal may be generated.

In the memory portion data used for an arithmetic operation in the arithmetic processing portion arithmetic results or the like is stored.

A control signal generated in the arithmetic processing portion is supplied to the drive control portion and the frame portion can be controlled on the basis of the control signal. The frame portion may be moved directly or may be moved indirectly by moving the driver portion.

Moreover corners of the inner frame of the frame portion preferably have curvature as illustrated in because a viewer can feel a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image. In addition the corners of the inner frame of the frame portion preferably have curvature because naturalness of a two dimensional image is enhanced for the viewer in some cases. In particular the corners of the inner frame of the frame portion preferably have larger curvature than the corners of the display portion .

When the curvature of the corners is large a region of the display portion that is visible for the viewer gets narrower accordingly the curvature is preferably set such that a straight portion is included in a side of the inner frame of the frame portion as illustrated in and further preferably the curvature is set such that a straight portion is included in each side of the inner frame of the frame portion as illustrated in .

For example a frame portion in which the curvature of the corner of the inner frame is variable can be achieved with the use of an elastic material such as rubber. For example by adjusting the inner frame of the frame portion to any of the shapes illustrated in depending on an image displayed on the display portion a change of the intensity of a stereoscopic effect or a sense of depth without intent can be suppressed or the intensity of a stereoscopic effect or a sense of depth can be changed intentionally.

The position of the opening of the frame portion may be moved as illustrated in . The size of the opening of the frame portion may be variable as illustrated in . For example by adjusting the size or the position of the opening of the frame portion depending on an image displayed on the display portion a change of the intensity of a stereoscopic effect or a sense of depth without intent can be suppressed or the intensity of a stereoscopic effect or a sense of depth can be changed intentionally.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the frame portion is not necessarily parallel to the display surface. For example illustrates the case where a distance between the frame portion and the display portion is wider at the right end than at the left end of the display portion and illustrates the case where the distance between the frame portion and the display portion is wider at the lower end than at the upper end of the display portion. In some favorable cases a viewer can feel a stronger stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image when the frame portion has an inclination with respect to the display surface.

Furthermore the display device of one embodiment of the present invention has a frame portion whereby glare of external light to the display portion can be suppressed. By suppressing glare of external light not only color reproducibility of display is enhanced but also the viewer can feel a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image.

A display device illustrated in includes a frame portion and the display portion having a curved surface. The frame portion includes a first frame portion and a second frame portion . The display portion overlaps with an opening surrounded by the first frame portion and the second frame portion and end portions of the display portion overlap with the first frame portion and the second frame portion

The first frame portion and the second frame portion are moved by driver portions and so that the size of the inner frame of the frame portion can be changed.

Display devices of another embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to and . A display device according to the embodiment of the present invention includes a frame portion a light transmitting layer and a display portion. The light transmitting layer includes a viewing surface and a convex surface opposite to each other. The refractive index of the light transmitting layer is higher than that of the air. The display portion includes an end portion overlapping with the frame portion with the light transmitting layer provided therebetween and includes a portion overlapping with an opening of the frame portion and the light transmitting layer. In the display portion a plurality of display elements capable of displaying an image toward the viewing surface are provided along the convex surface.

A display surface of the display portion is in contact with the convex surface of the light transmitting layer in the display device according to the embodiment of the present invention. As an example of a shape of the light transmitting layer a column with a bottom surface whose boundary consists of a curved line a cylinder with a perfect circle shaped bottom surface an elliptic cylinder with an ellipse shaped bottom surface or the like or a column with a bottom surface whose boundary consists of a curved line and a straight line a column with a semi cylindrical shaped bottom surface a semi elliptical cylindrical shaped bottom surface or the like can be given. If a shape of the light transmitting layer is any of such columns the convex surface corresponds to a curved surface of the column and the viewing surface corresponds to a surface opposite to the curved surface of the column. The viewing surface may be a flat surface or a curved surface a concave surface or a convex surface or may partly have a curved surface a convex portion or a concave portion .

The frame portion may be partly in contact with the display portion. Alternatively the frame portion may be partly in contact with the light transmitting layer.

In the display device of any of the above structures when a viewer sees a display portion from a viewing surface side a virtual image is formed neither on the viewing surface of the display device nor on the display surface of the display portion but is formed in the light transmitting layer because the refractive index of the light transmitting layer is higher than that of the air. Accordingly a misinterpretation by viewer s brain is caused and a stereoscopic effect or sense of depth to an image is increased. In addition since the display elements are provided along the convex surface the position of a virtual image formed in the display device in the thickness direction differs between an edge portion and a central portion of the viewing surface of the display device. This gives a further increased stereoscopic effect or sense of depth to an image. That is the display device of the embodiment of the present invention includes both the light transmitting layer and the frame portion whereby the viewer has an optical illusion that the position of the display portion is different from actual one stereoscopic information is corrected by brain and thus the viewer can feel a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image.

In the display device a viewing surface of the light transmitting layer is a flat surface. Specifically the viewing surface is a plane that intersects the display panel or the display portion at at least three points. Furthermore the viewing surface is a plane that intersects a convex surface at at least three points.

Light delivered from a point C on the display surface of the display panel to viewer s eye enters the interface between the light transmitting layer and the atmosphere perpendicularly and therefore travels straight. In contrast light delivered from the point C to viewer s eye enters the interface between the light transmitting layer and the atmosphere at an angle and therefore refracts at the interface. This refraction of light causes a virtual image to be formed at a position D that is neither on the display surface of the display panel here a surface in contact with the convex surface nor on a viewing surface of the display device here corresponding to the viewing surface of the light transmitting layer . The viewer sees this virtual image thus the display device gives a sense of depth or a stereoscopic effect to an image.

In the display portion a plurality of display elements capable of displaying an image toward the viewing surface are provided along the convex surface . Therefore the position of a virtual image formed in the display device in the thickness direction differs between an edge portion and a central portion of the viewing surface of the display device. This gives a further increased sense of depth or stereoscopic effect to an image.

In the display device the display portion preferably includes a first display element which satisfies the following conditions. Specifically Y X is greater than or equal to 0.1 and less than or equal to 1 preferably greater than or equal to 0.15 and less than or equal to 0.6 further preferably greater than or equal to 0.2 and less than or equal to 0.4 where X is a distance between the first display element and an intersection Q of a perpendicular line drawn to an outermost point E on the convex surface with a plane intersecting the perpendicular line orthogonally and passing through the first display element and Y is a distance between the intersection Q and the outermost point E.

In the display device including the first display element a larger difference in the position of a virtual image formed in the display device in the thickness direction is made between the edge portion and the central portion of the viewing surface of the display device. Thus the display device including the first display element is preferable because it is effective in increasing the sense of depth or stereoscopic effect in an image.

In one example of a structure as illustrated in Y X is greater than or equal to 0.1 and less than or equal to 1 preferably greater than or equal to 0.15 and less than or equal to 0.6 further preferably greater than or equal to 0.2 and less than or equal to 0.4 where X is a distance between a given display element and an intersection Q of a perpendicular line drawn to an outermost point E on the convex surface with a plane intersecting the perpendicular line orthogonally and passing through the display element and Y is a distance between the intersection Q and the outermost point E. For example the display element may be located in an edge portion of the display portion.

It is preferable that the display device do not include a display element that makes the above value of Y X greater than 1. If a display element of the display device makes the value of Y X greater than 1 the thickness of the display device increases which makes it difficult to reduce the thickness of the display device or an electronic device including the display device. In addition the durability of the display element a display unit or a display region including the display element might be lowered.

Although the viewing surface of the display device is quadrangular the viewing surface may be in the shape of a polygon a circle an ellipse or the like and is not particularly limited.

In the display device it is preferable that at least part of the display surface of the display portion be in contact with the convex surface of the light transmitting layer . For example as in the display device in or the like the whole display surface of the display portion may be in contact with the convex surface of the light transmitting layer . As another example a display device is illustrated in . In the display device part of the display surface of the display portion is not in contact with the light transmitting layer . Note that the embodiment of the present invention is not limited to these structures and the viewing surface of the light transmitting layer does not necessarily intersect the display portion at three points. For example the viewing surface of the light transmitting layer may be a plane that intersects the non display portion at at least three points as illustrated in . Furthermore the viewing surface is not necessarily a flat surface.

Note that a hard coat film an anti reflection film a touch panel or the like may be provided on the viewing surface of the light transmitting layer . The hard coat film has hardness higher than that of at least the light transmitting layer and an inorganic insulating film such as a silicon nitride film can be used for example. As the anti reflection film a film having surface irregularities at a regular pitch of approximately several hundred nanometers such as a moth eye structure can be used for example. As the touch panel any of various types such as a capacitive type a resistive type a surface acoustic wave type an infrared ray type and an optical type can be used.

In the display device the viewing surface of the light transmitting layer is a curved surface. In the display device part of the viewing surface of the light transmitting layer is a curved surface.

Specifically the viewing surface of the display device or satisfies the following conditions. That is a distance between a point N and a point P where the point N is a foot of a perpendicular line drawn from a point M on the convex surface to a plane intersecting the display portion or the convex surface at at least three points or passing through a boundary line between the convex surface and the viewing surface and the point P is an intersection of the perpendicular line with the viewing surface is largest when the point M is at the outermost point E. illustrates an example in which a distance L between a foot N of a perpendicular line drawn from an outermost point E and an intersection P of the perpendicular line with the viewing surface is larger than a distance L between a foot N of a perpendicular line drawn from a point M on the convex surface and an intersection P of the perpendicular line with the viewing surface .

Also in a display device having such a structure a virtual image can be formed at a position that is neither on a display surface of the display portion nor on a viewing surface of the display device. A viewer sees this virtual image thus the display device gives a sense of depth or a stereoscopic effect to an image.

In the display portion a plurality of display elements capable of displaying an image toward the viewing surface are provided along the convex surface . Therefore the position of a virtual image formed in the display device in the thickness direction differs between an edge portion and a central portion of the viewing surface of the display device. This gives a further increased sense of depth or stereoscopic effect to an image.

In the display device or the display portion preferably includes a first display element which satisfies the conditions given above.

In one example of a structure as illustrated in Y X is greater than or equal to 0.1 and less than or equal to 1 preferably greater than or equal to 0.15 and less than or equal to 0.6 further preferably greater than or equal to 0.2 and less than or equal to 0.4 where X is a distance between a given display element and an intersection Q of a perpendicular line drawn to an outermost point E on the convex surface with a plane intersecting the perpendicular line orthogonally and passing through the display element and Y is a distance between the intersection Q and the outermost point E.

The light transmitting layer is formed using a material having a light transmitting property and having a refractive index higher than that of the atmosphere. For example an organic resin such as a resin which is curable at room temperature e.g. a two component type resin a light curable resin or a heat curable resin can be used.

For example an organic resin such as a polyvinyl chloride PVC resin an acrylic resin a polyimide resin an epoxy resin a silicone resin a polyvinyl butyral PVB resin or an ethylene vinyl acetate EVA resin can be used. Furthermore a drying agent may be contained in the organic resin.

For the light transmitting layer a material having a light transmitting property and a high refractive index is preferably used. For example a material having a refractive index higher than or equal to 1.6 preferably higher than or equal to 1.7 and less than or equal to 2.1 is used. Examples of the material having a high refractive index include a resin containing bromine a resin containing sulfur and the like. For example a sulfur containing polyimide resin an episulfide resin a thiourethane resin a brominated aromatic resin or the like can be used. In addition polyethylene terephthalate PET triacetyl cellulose TAC or the like can be used.

Note that the state of the light transmitting layer is not particularly limited and may be solid including a gel or the like or liquid including a sol or the like .

Note that the light transmitting layer may be detachable in the display device of the embodiment of the present invention. In the case where the display panel is flexible the display panel can be transformed to fit the light transmitting layer used. Thus by selecting and using one of a plurality of light transmitting layers having different shapes for example the degree of the sense of depth or stereoscopic effect provided by one display device can be adjusted for every use.

The display device of one embodiment of the present invention may include at least a display portion capable of displaying an image in a plane. Note that an image in this specification may be either a still image or a moving image.

The display portion is not particularly limited as long as having a curved surface. The display portion is preferably flexible in which case the shape curvature or the like of the curved surface can be made variable.

For example as the display portion sheet like or plate like members of paper cloth a resin film wood and the like on which various images such as a picture a painting and an illustration are displayed can be given.

The display portion may include a display element. As an example of the display portion or a display element of the display portion an EL element e.g. an EL element including organic and inorganic materials an organic EL element or an inorganic EL element an LED e.g. a white LED a red LED a green LED or a blue LED a transistor a transistor which emits light in accordance with current an electron emitter a liquid crystal element electronic ink an electrophoretic element or the like can be given . As an example of a display portion having an EL element an EL display or the like can be given. As an example of a display portion including a liquid crystal element a liquid crystal display e.g. a transmissive liquid crystal display a semi transmissive liquid crystal display a reflective liquid crystal display a direct view liquid crystal display a projection liquid crystal display or the like can be given. As an example of a display portion including electronic ink or electrophoretic element electronic paper or the like can be given.

Note that when the display portion is an organic EL display a viewer tends to feel a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image as compared with a liquid crystal display. Therefore in one embodiment of the present invention an organic EL display in particular a flexible organic EL display is preferably used for the display portion.

Alternatively the display portion may be a screen on which an image is projected by a projection device.

Note that the non display portion included in the display device of one embodiment of the present invention may include a driver circuit of a display element or a light emitting element or a sealing region for example.

The opening of the frame portion may have at least a light transmitting property that allows a viewer to see display in the display portion or the opening may also be a space. Alternatively a plate a film or the like made of a material transmitting visible light such as glass or resin may overlap with the display portion.

Display that can be viewed through a frame portion is unclear as compared with display that can be viewed through an opening of the frame portion. The frame portion may be formed using a light transmitting material such as ground glass or frosted glass. The frame portion may have a light blocking property that makes a viewer difficult to see the display portion through the frame portion or may be formed using a material that does not transmit visible light.

For example a material such as glass quartz ceramics sapphire metal an organic resin paper or wood can be used. The frame portion is preferably formed using a flexible material in which case the frame portion can be bent.

There is no particular limitation on the color of the frame portion. For example the frame portion may be black white blue green red or the like. Black is preferable to enhance a viewer s sense of immersion in display content.

The display portion of the display device of one embodiment of the present invention or the display device of one embodiment of the present invention may be an electronic device such as television sets also called TV or television receivers monitors for computers or the like digital photo frames mobile phones also called cellular phones or portable telephones portable game machines portable information terminals audio playback devices or large game machines such as pachinko machines. That is according to one embodiment of the present invention a frame portion may be added to an electronic device corresponding to the display portion or the frame portion may be included in an electronic device corresponding to the display device . Alternatively the above electronic device may include the display device of one embodiment of the present invention.

The display device of one embodiment of the present invention can be used in an amusement park e.g. a game center a theme park or the like a theater a cinema or the like. For example in accordance with the content of attraction a viewer can feel a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image in such a manner that the frame portion is transformed or the degree of a curvature or an inclination of the frame portion or the shape or the size of the opening of the frame portion is changed.

As described above in the display device of one embodiment of the present invention a viewer can feel a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image with a display portion having a curved surface. In addition in the display device of one embodiment of the present invention a viewer can feel a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image with a frame portion between the viewer and the display portion. Moreover in the display device of one embodiment of the present invention a viewer can feel a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image without variation among individuals or regardless of display content because the degree of a curvature of the display portion the degree of a curvature or an inclination of the frame portion or the shape or the size of an opening of the frame portion can be changed. Fatigue that a viewer feels can be reduced as compared with the case where a display portion which is not suitable for a viewer is used because the degree of a curvature can be adjusted by the viewer or the display device so that curvature suitable for the viewer can be obtained. Furthermore as compared with the case where a frame portion which is not suitable for the viewer is provided between the viewer and a display portion fatigue that the viewer feels can be reduced in such a manner that a frame portion in which the degree of a curvature or an inclination or the shape or the size of an opening is suitable for the viewer is provided between the viewer and the display portion.

Note that the display device of one embodiment of the present invention is one mode of an eye friendly display device which is less likely to strain eyes. For the display device of one embodiment of the present invention technologies of displaying images with less eyestrain also referred to as a reducing eyestrain technology REST are employed.

In this embodiment an example of a display panel that can be used for a display portion of the display device of the above embodiment of the present invention will be described. Although a flexible light emitting device including an organic EL element will be shown as an example of a display panel in this embodiment one embodiment of the present invention is not limited thereto.

The light emitting device in includes a light emitting portion a driver circuit portion and a flexible printed circuit FPC . An organic EL element and transistors included in the light emitting portion and the driver circuit portion are sealed with a flexible substrate a flexible substrate and a bonding layer .

The light emitting device in includes the flexible substrate a bonding layer an insulating layer a transistor an insulating layer an insulating layer an insulating layer an organic EL element a lower electrode an EL layer and an upper electrode the bonding layer the flexible substrate and a conductive layer . The flexible substrate the bonding layer and the upper electrode transmit visible light.

In the light emitting portion of the light emitting device in the transistor and the organic EL element are provided over the flexible substrate with the bonding layer and the insulating layer provided therebetween. The organic EL element includes the lower electrode over the insulating layer the EL layer over the lower electrode and the upper electrode over the EL layer . The lower electrode is electrically connected to a source electrode or a drain electrode of the transistor . It is preferable that the lower electrode reflect visible light. The end portion of the lower electrode is covered with the insulating layer .

The driver circuit portion includes a plurality of transistors. In one of the transistors included in the driver circuit portion is illustrated.

The conductive layer is electrically connected to an external input terminal through which a signal e.g. a video signal a clock signal a start signal a reset signal or the like or a potential from the outside is transmitted to the driver circuit portion . Here an example in which the FPC is provided as the external input terminal is described.

To prevent an increase in the number of manufacturing steps the conductive layer is preferably formed using the same material and the same step s as those of the electrode or the wiring in the light emitting portion or the driver circuit portion. Here an example is described in which the conductive layer is formed using the same material and the same step s as those of the source electrode and the drain electrode of the transistor.

The insulating layer has an effect of suppressing diffusion of impurities into a semiconductor included in the transistor. As the insulating layer an insulating film having a planarization function is preferably selected in order to reduce surface unevenness due to the transistor.

The light emitting device in includes the flexible substrate the bonding layer the insulating layer a transistor the transistor the insulating layer a coloring layer the insulating layer a conductive layer an insulating layer the insulating layer the organic EL element the lower electrode the EL layer and the upper electrode the bonding layer the flexible substrate and the conductive layer . The flexible substrate the bonding layer the insulating layer the insulating layer the insulating layer the insulating layer and the lower electrode transmit visible light.

In the light emitting portion of the light emitting device in the switching transistor the current control transistor and the organic EL element are provided over the flexible substrate with the bonding layer and the insulating layer provided therebetween. The organic EL element includes the lower electrode over the insulating layer the EL layer over the lower electrode and the upper electrode over the EL layer . The lower electrode is electrically connected to the source electrode or the drain electrode of the transistor with the conductive layer provided therebetween. The end portion of the lower electrode is covered with the insulating layer . It is preferable that the upper electrode reflect visible light. Moreover the light emitting device includes the coloring layer over the insulating layer with which the organic EL element overlaps.

The driver circuit portion includes a plurality of transistors. In two of the transistors included in the driver circuit portion are illustrated.

The conductive layer is electrically connected to an external input terminal through which a signal or a potential from the outside is transmitted to the driver circuit portion . Here an example in which the FPC is provided as the external input terminal is described. Moreover here an example in which the conductive layer is formed using the same material and the same step s as those of the conductive layer is described.

The insulating layer has an effect of suppressing diffusion of impurities into a semiconductor included in the transistor. As the insulating layer and the insulating layer an insulating film having a planarization function is preferably selected in order to reduce surface unevenness due to the transistors and the wirings.

The light emitting device in includes the flexible substrate the bonding layer the insulating layer the transistor the insulating layer the insulating layer the insulating layer an insulating layer the organic EL element the lower electrode the EL layer and the upper electrode the bonding layer a light blocking layer the coloring layer an overcoat an insulating layer a bonding layer the flexible substrate and the conductive layer . The flexible substrate the bonding layer the insulating layer the bonding layer and the upper electrode transmit visible light.

In the light emitting portion of the light emitting device in the transistor and the organic EL element are provided over the flexible substrate with the bonding layer and the insulating layer provided therebetween. The organic EL element includes the lower electrode over the insulating layer the EL layer over the lower electrode and the upper electrode over the EL layer . The lower electrode is electrically connected to the source electrode or the drain electrode of the transistor . The end portion of the lower electrode is covered with the insulating layer . The insulating layer is provided over the insulating layer . The space between the flexible substrate and the flexible substrate can be adjusted with the insulating layer . It is preferable that the lower electrode reflect visible light. Moreover the light emitting device includes the coloring layer overlapping with the organic EL element with the bonding layer provided therebetween and the light blocking layer overlapping with the insulating layer with the bonding layer provided therebetween.

The driver circuit portion includes a plurality of transistors. In one of the transistors included in the driver circuit portion is illustrated.

The conductive layer is electrically connected to an external input terminal through which a signal or a potential from the outside is transmitted to the driver circuit portion . Here an example in which the FPC is provided as the external input terminal is described. Moreover here an example in which the conductive layer is formed using the same material and the same step s as those of the source electrode and the drain electrode of the transistor is described. A connector over the insulating layer is connected to the conductive layer through an opening provided in the insulating layer the overcoat the bonding layer the insulating layer and the insulating layer . Moreover the connector is connected to the FPC . The FPC and the conductive layer are electrically connected to each other with the connector provided therebetween.

The light emitting devices illustrated in each include an element layer a bonding layer and a flexible substrate . The element layer includes a flexible substrate a bonding layer an insulating layer a plurality of transistors a conductive layer an insulating layer an insulating layer a plurality of light emitting elements an insulating layer a bonding layer an overcoat a light blocking layer and an insulating layer .

The conductive layer is electrically connected to an FPC via a connector . As illustrated in in the case where the conductive layer is provided between the flexible substrates and the connector may be disposed in an opening provided in the flexible substrate the bonding layer and the like. As illustrated in in the case where the conductive layer does not overlap with the flexible substrate the connector may be disposed in an opening provided in the insulating film and the insulating layer over the flexible substrate .

The light emitting element includes a lower electrode an EL layer and an upper electrode . The lower electrode is electrically connected to a source electrode or a drain electrode of a transistor . An end portion of the lower electrode is covered with the insulating layer . The light emitting element has a top emission structure. The upper electrode has a light transmitting property and transmits light emitted from the EL layer .

The light emitting device includes a plurality of transistors in a light extraction portion and a driver circuit portion . The transistor is provided over the insulating layer . The insulating layer and the flexible substrate are attached to each other with the bonding layer . The insulating layer and the flexible substrate are attached to each other with the bonding layer . It is preferable to use insulating films with a high gas barrier property as the insulating layer and the insulating layer in which case an impurity such as moisture or oxygen can be prevented from entering the light emitting element or the transistor leading to improved reliability of the light emitting device.

The light emitting device in Structure Example 1 4 can be manufactured in the following manner the insulating layer the transistor and the light emitting element are formed over a formation substrate with high heat resistance the formation substrate is peeled and the insulating layer the transistor and the light emitting element are transferred to the flexible substrate and bonded thereto with the bonding layer . The light emitting device in Structure Example 1 4 can be manufactured in the following manner the insulating layer the coloring layer and the light blocking layer are formed over a formation substrate with high heat resistance the formation substrate is peeled and the insulating layer the coloring layer and the light blocking layer are transferred to the flexible substrate and bonded thereto with the bonding layer .

In the case where a material with high moisture permeability and low heat resistance e.g. resin is used for a substrate it is not allowed to expose the substrate to high temperature in the manufacturing process. Thus there is a limitation on conditions for forming a transistor and an insulating film over the substrate. In the manufacturing method of the light emitting device of one embodiment of the present invention a transistor and the like can be formed over a formation substrate with high heat resistance thus a highly reliable transistor and an insulating film with a sufficiently high gas barrier property can be formed. Then these are transferred to a flexible substrate and thus a highly reliable light emitting device can be manufactured. Thus with one embodiment of the present invention a thin and or lightweight light emitting device with high reliability can be provided. Details of the manufacturing method will be described later.

The flexible substrate and the flexible substrate are each preferably formed using a material with high toughness. In that case a display device with high impact resistance that is less likely to be broken can be provided. For example when the flexible substrate is an organic resin substrate and the flexible substrate is a substrate of a thin metal material or a thin alloy material the light emitting device can be lightweight and unlikely to be broken as compared with the case where a glass substrate is used.

A metal material and an alloy material which have high thermal conductivity are preferable because they can easily conduct heat to the whole substrate and accordingly can prevent a local temperature rise in the light emitting device. The thickness of a substrate using a metal material or an alloy material is preferably greater than or equal to 10 m and less than or equal to 200 m further preferably greater than or equal to 20 m and less than or equal to 50 m.

Furthermore when a material with high thermal emissivity is used for the flexible substrate the surface temperature of the light emitting device can be prevented from rising leading to prevention of breakage or a decrease in reliability of the light emitting device. For example the flexible substrate may have a stacked layer structure of a metal substrate and a layer with high thermal emissivity e.g. the layer can be formed using a metal oxide or a ceramic material .

Next materials and the like that can be used for a light emitting device are described. Note that description on the components already described in this embodiment is omitted.

The element layer includes at least a light emitting element. As the light emitting element a self luminous element can be used and an element whose luminance is controlled by current or voltage is included in the category of the light emitting element. For example a light emitting diode LED an organic EL element an inorganic EL element or the like can be used.

The element layer may further include a transistor for driving the light emitting element a touch sensor or the like.

The structure of the transistors in the light emitting device is not particularly limited. For example a forward staggered transistor or an inverted staggered transistor may be used. A top gate transistor or a bottom gate transistor may be used. A semiconductor material used for the transistors is not particularly limited for example silicon germanium an oxide semiconductor or the like may be used.

There is no particular limitation on the state of a semiconductor material used for the transistors and an amorphous semiconductor or a semiconductor having crystallinity a microcrystalline semiconductor a polycrystalline semiconductor a single crystal semiconductor or a semiconductor partly including crystal regions may be used. It is preferable that a semiconductor having crystallinity be particularly used in which case deterioration of the transistor characteristics can be suppressed.

Here a polycrystalline semiconductor is preferably used for the transistors. For example it is preferable to use polycrystalline silicon or the like. Polycrystalline silicon can be formed at a low temperature as compared with single crystal silicon and has a high field effect mobility and high reliability as compared with amorphous silicon. When such a polycrystalline semiconductor is used for a pixel the aperture ratio of the pixel can be improved. In addition even when a light emitting device includes pixels with extremely high definition a gate driver circuit and a source diver circuit can be formed over the same substrate as a pixel and thus the number of components constituting an electronic device can be reduced.

Alternatively an oxide semiconductor is preferably used for the transistors. It is preferable to use for example an oxide semiconductor having a wider band gap than silicon. A semiconductor material having a wider band gap and a lower carrier density than silicon is preferably used because off state leakage current of the transistor can be reduced.

The oxide semiconductor preferably contains at least indium In or zinc Zn for example. Further preferably the transistor contains an oxide represented by an In M Zn based oxide M is a metal such as Al Ti Ga Ge Y Zr Sn La Ce or Hf .

As the oxide semiconductor for example any of the following can be used indium oxide tin oxide zinc oxide an In Zn based oxide a Sn Zn based oxide an Al Zn based oxide a Zn Mg based oxide a Sn Mg based oxide an In Mg based oxide an In Ga based oxide an In Ga Zn based oxide also referred to as IGZO an In Al Zn based oxide an In Sn Zn based oxide a Sn Ga Zn based oxide an Al Ga Zn based oxide a Sn Al Zn based oxide an In Hf Zn based oxide an In Zr Zn based oxide an In Ti Zn based oxide an In Sc Zn based oxide an In Y Zn based oxide an In La Zn based oxide an In Ce Zn based oxide an In Pr Zn based oxide an In Nd Zn based oxide an In Sm Zn based oxide an In Eu Zn based oxide an In Gd Zn based oxide an In Tb Zn based oxide an In Dy Zn based oxide an In Ho Zn based oxide an In Er Zn based oxide an In Tm Zn based oxide an In Yb Zn based oxide an In Lu Zn based oxide an In Sn Ga Zn based oxide an In Hf Ga Zn based oxide an In Al Ga Zn based oxide an In Sn Al Zn based oxide an In Sn Hf Zn based oxide and an In Hf Al Zn based oxide.

Here an In Ga Zn based oxide means an oxide containing In Ga and Zn as its main components and there is no particular limitation on the ratio of In Ga and Zn. The In Ga Z based oxide may contain another metal element in addition to In Ga and Zn.

An oxide semiconductor film is classified into a single crystal oxide semiconductor film and a non single crystal oxide semiconductor film. The non single crystal oxide semiconductor film includes any of a c axis aligned crystalline oxide semiconductor CAAC OS film a polycrystalline oxide semiconductor film a microcrystalline oxide semiconductor film an amorphous oxide semiconductor film and the like. Note that the CAAC OS film is one of oxide semiconductor films having a plurality of c axis aligned crystal parts. A CAAC OS film can be referred to as an oxide semiconductor film including c axis aligned nanocrystals CANC .

As the semiconductor layer it is particularly preferable to use an oxide semiconductor film including a plurality of crystal parts whose c axes are aligned perpendicular to a surface on which the semiconductor layer is formed or the top surface of the semiconductor layer and in which the adjacent crystal parts have no grain boundary. Since such an oxide semiconductor does not have a grain boundary stress that is caused by curving a flexible device which is formed by employing one embodiment of the present invention does not generate a crack in an oxide semiconductor film. Therefore such an oxide semiconductor can be preferably used for a device which has flexibility and used in a curved state.

Moreover the use of such a material for the semiconductor layer makes it possible to provide a highly reliable transistor in which a change in the electrical characteristics is suppressed.

Furthermore with a low off state current of the transistor electric charges accumulated in a capacitor through the transistor can be held for a long period. With such a transistor employed in a pixel a driver circuit can be stopped while luminance of an image displayed in each display region is maintained. Thus an electronic device with extremely low power consumption can be achieved.

The light emitting element included in the light emitting device includes a pair of electrodes the lower electrode and the upper electrode and the EL layer between the pair of electrodes. One of the pair of electrodes functions as an anode and the other functions as a cathode.

The light emitting element may have any of a top emission structure a bottom emission structure and a dual emission structure. A conductive film that transmits visible light is used as the electrode through which light is extracted. A conductive film that reflects visible light is preferably used as the electrode through which light is not extracted.

The conductive film that transmits visible light can be formed using for example indium oxide indium tin oxide ITO indium zinc oxide zinc oxide or zinc oxide to which gallium is added. Alternatively a film of a metal material such as gold silver platinum magnesium nickel tungsten chromium molybdenum iron cobalt copper palladium or titanium an alloy containing any of these metal materials or a nitride of any of these metal materials e.g. titanium nitride can be formed thin so as to have a light transmitting property. Alternatively a stack of any of the above materials can be used as the conductive layer. For example a stacked film of ITO and an alloy of silver and magnesium is preferably used in which case conductivity can be increased. Further alternatively graphene or the like may be used.

For the conductive film that reflects visible light for example a metal material such as aluminum gold platinum silver nickel tungsten chromium molybdenum iron cobalt copper or palladium or an alloy including any of these metal materials can be used. Lanthanum neodymium germanium or the like may be added to the metal material or the alloy. Furthermore an alloy containing aluminum an aluminum alloy such as an alloy of aluminum and titanium an alloy of aluminum and nickel or an alloy of aluminum and neodymium or an alloy containing silver such as an alloy of silver and copper an alloy of silver copper and palladium or an alloy of silver and magnesium can be used for the conductive film. An alloy of silver and copper is preferable because of its high heat resistance. Moreover a metal film or a metal oxide film is stacked on an aluminum alloy film whereby oxidation of the aluminum alloy film can be suppressed. Examples of a material for the metal film or the metal oxide film are titanium titanium oxide and the like. Alternatively the conductive film that transmits visible light and a film containing any of the above metal materials may be stacked. For example a stacked film of silver and ITO or a stacked film of an alloy of silver and magnesium and ITO can be used.

Each of the electrodes may be formed by an evaporation method or a sputtering method. Alternatively a discharging method such as an ink jet method a printing method such as a screen printing method or a plating method may be used.

When a voltage higher than the threshold voltage of the light emitting element is applied between the lower electrode and the upper electrode holes are injected to the EL layer from the anode side and electrons are injected to the EL layer from the cathode side. The injected electrons and holes are recombined in the EL layer so that a light emitting substance contained in the EL layer emits light.

The EL layer includes at least a light emitting layer. In addition to the light emitting layer the EL layer may further include one or more layers containing any of a substance with a high hole injection property a substance with a high hole transport property a hole blocking material a substance with a high electron transport property a substance with a high electron injection property a substance with a bipolar property a substance with a high electron and hole transport property and the like.

Either a low molecular compound or a high molecular compound can be used for the EL layer and an inorganic compound may also be used. Each of the layers included in the EL layer 1433 can be formed by any of the following methods an evaporation method including a vacuum evaporation method a transfer method a printing method an ink jet method a coating method and the like.

The light emitting element is preferably provided between a pair of insulating films with high gas barrier properties. Thus an impurity such as water can be prevented from entering the light emitting element leading to prevention of a decrease in the reliability of the light emitting device.

As an insulating film with a high gas barrier property a film containing nitrogen and silicon such as a silicon nitride film or a silicon nitride oxide film a film containing nitrogen and aluminum such as an aluminum nitride film or the like can be used. Alternatively a silicon oxide film a silicon oxynitride film an aluminum oxide film or the like can be used.

For example the permeation amount of water vapor of the insulating film with a high gas barrier property is lower than or equal to 1 10 g m.day preferably lower than or equal to 1 10 g m.day further preferably lower than or equal to 1 10 g m day still further preferably lower than or equal to 1 10 g m day .

A flexible material is used for the flexible substrate. For example an organic resin or a glass material that is thin enough to have flexibility can be used. Furthermore a material which transmits visible light is used for the substrate of the light emitting device from which light is extracted. A metal substrate or the like may be used in the case where the flexible substrate does not necessarily transmit visible light.

An organic resin which has a specific gravity smaller than that of glass is preferably used for the flexible substrate in which case the light emitting device can be more lightweight as compared to the case where glass is used.

Examples of such a material having flexibility and a light transmitting property include polyester resins such as polyethylene terephthalate PET and polyethylene naphthalate PEN a polyacrylonitrile resin a polyimide resin a polymethyl methacrylate resin a polycarbonate PC resin a polyethersulfone PES resin a polyamide resin a cycloolefin resin a polystyrene resin a polyamide imide resin and a polyvinyl chloride resin. In particular a material whose coefficient of thermal expansion is low is preferable and for example a polyamide imide resin a polyimide resin or PET can be suitably used. A substrate in which a fibrous body is impregnated with a resin also referred to as prepreg or a substrate whose coefficient of thermal expansion is reduced by mixing an organic resin with an inorganic filler can also be used.

In the case where a fibrous body is contained in the material having flexibility and a light transmitting property a high strength fiber of an organic compound or an inorganic compound is used as the fibrous body. A high strength fiber is specifically a fiber with a high tensile modulus of elasticity or a fiber with a high Young s modulus. Typical examples of a high strength fiber include a polyvinyl alcohol based fiber a polyester based fiber a polyamide based fiber a polyethylene based fiber an aramid based fiber a polyparaphenylene benzobisoxazole fiber a glass fiber and a carbon fiber. As the glass fiber glass fiber using E glass S glass D glass Q glass or the like can be used. These fibers may be used in a state of a woven fabric or a nonwoven fabric and a structure in which this fibrous body is impregnated with a resin and the resin is cured may be used as the flexible substrate. The structure including the fibrous body and the resin is preferably used as the flexible substrate in which case reliability against bending or breaking due to local pressure can be increased.

To improve the light extraction efficiency the refractive index of the material having flexibility and a light transmitting property is preferably high. For example a substrate obtained by dispersing an inorganic filler having a high refractive index into an organic resin can have a higher refractive index than the substrate formed of only the organic resin. In particular an inorganic filler having a particle diameter as small as 40 nm or less is preferable in which case such a filler can maintain optical transparency.

To obtain flexibility and bendability the thickness of a metal substrate is preferably greater than or equal to 10 m and less than or equal to 200 m further preferably greater than or equal to 20 m and less than or equal to 50 m. Since a metal substrate has a high thermal conductivity heat generated due to light emission of a light emitting element can be efficiently released.

Although there is no particular limitation on a material of the metal substrate it is preferable to use for example aluminum copper nickel a metal alloy such as an aluminum alloy or stainless steel.

The flexible substrate may have a stacked layer structure in which a hard coat layer such as a silicon nitride layer by which a surface of a light emitting device is protected from damage a layer such as an aramid resin layer which can disperse pressure or the like is stacked over a layer of any of the above mentioned materials. Furthermore to suppress a decrease in the lifetime of the functional element in particular the organic EL element due to moisture and the like an insulating film with low water permeability described later may be included.

The flexible substrate may be formed by stacking a plurality of layers. When a glass layer is used a barrier property against water and oxygen can be improved and thus a highly reliable light emitting device can be provided.

For example a flexible substrate in which a glass layer a bonding layer and an organic resin layer are stacked from the side closer to an organic EL element can be used. The thickness of the glass layer is greater than or equal to 20 m and less than or equal to 200 m preferably greater than or equal to 25 m and less than or equal to 100 m. With such a thickness the glass layer can have both a high barrier property against water and oxygen and a high flexibility. The thickness of the organic resin layer is greater than or equal to 10 m and less than or equal to 200 m preferably greater than or equal to 20 m and less than or equal to 50 m. Providing such an organic resin layer outside the glass layer occurrence of a crack or a break in the glass layer can be suppressed and mechanical strength can be improved. With the substrate that includes such a composite material of a glass material and an organic resin a highly reliable and flexible light emitting device can be provided.

As the bonding layer various curable adhesives such as a reactive curable adhesive a thermosetting adhesive an anaerobic adhesive and a photo curable adhesive such as an ultraviolet curable adhesive can be used. Examples of these adhesives include an epoxy resin an acrylic resin a silicone resin a phenol resin a polyimide resin an imide resin a polyvinyl chloride PVC resin a polyvinyl butyral PVB resin an ethylene vinyl acetate EVA resin and the like. In particular a material with low moisture permeability such as an epoxy resin is preferable. Alternatively a two component mixture type resin may be used. Further alternatively an adhesive sheet or the like may be used.

Furthermore the resin may include a drying agent. For example a substance that adsorbs moisture by chemical adsorption such as oxide of an alkaline earth metal e.g. calcium oxide or barium oxide can be used. Alternatively a substance that adsorbs moisture by physical adsorption such as zeolite or silica gel may be used. The drying agent is preferably included in which case it can suppress entry of impurities such as moisture into the functional element and can improve the reliability of the light emitting device.

In addition it is preferable to mix a filler with a high refractive index or light scattering member into the resin in which case the efficiency of light extraction from the light emitting element can be improved. For example titanium oxide barium oxide zeolite zirconium or the like can be used.

The insulating layer the insulating layer the insulating layer and the insulating layer can each be formed using an inorganic insulating material. It is particularly preferable to use the insulating film with a high gas barrier property in which case a highly reliable light emitting device can be provided. In addition the insulating film with a high gas barrier property may be formed between the bonding layer and the upper electrode.

The insulating layer and the insulating layer each have an effect of suppressing diffusion of impurities into a semiconductor included in the transistor. As each of the insulating layer and the insulating layer for example an inorganic insulating film such as a silicon oxide film a silicon oxynitride film or an aluminum oxide film can be used.

As each of the insulating layer the insulating layer and the insulating layer an insulating film with a planarization function is preferably selected in order to reduce surface unevenness due to the transistor or the like. For example an organic material such as a polyimide resin an acrylic resin or a benzocyclobutene based resin can be used. Other than such organic materials it is also possible to use a low dielectric constant material a low k material or the like. Note that a plurality of insulating films formed of these materials or inorganic insulating films may be stacked.

The insulating layer and the insulating layer are provided to cover an end portion of the lower electrode. As a material for each of the insulating layer the insulating layer and the insulating layer a resin or an inorganic insulating material can be used. As the resin for example a polyimide resin a polyamide resin an acrylic resin a siloxane resin an epoxy resin a phenol resin or the like can be used. In particular either a negative photosensitive resin or a positive photosensitive resin is preferably used for easy formation of the insulating layer the insulating layer and the insulating layer .

There is no particular limitation to the method for forming the insulating layer the insulating layer and the insulating layer a photolithography method a sputtering method an evaporation method a droplet discharging method e.g. an ink jetmethod a printing method e.g. a screen printing method or an off set printing method or the like may be used.

The conductive layers serving as an electrode a wiring and the like of the transistor can be each formed to have a single layer structure or a stacked layer structure using any of metal materials such as molybdenum titanium chromium tantalum tungsten aluminum copper neodymium and scandium and an alloy material containing any of these elements. Each of the conductive layers may be formed using a conductive metal oxide. As the conductive metal oxide indium oxide e.g. InO tin oxide e.g. SnO zinc oxide ZnO ITO indium zinc oxide e.g. InO ZnO or any of these metal oxide materials in which silicon oxide is contained can be used.

For the connector it is possible to use a paste like or sheet like material which is obtained by mixture of metal particles and a thermosetting resin and for which anisotropic electric conductivity is provided by thermocompression bonding. As the metal particles particles in which two or more kinds of metals are layered for example nickel particles coated with gold are preferably used.

The coloring layer is a colored layer that transmits light in a specific wavelength range. For example a red R color filter for transmitting light in a red wavelength range a green G color filter for transmitting light in a green wavelength range a blue B color filter for transmitting light in a blue wavelength range or the like can be used. Each coloring layer is formed in a desired position with any of various materials by a printing method an ink jet method an etching method using a photolithography method or the like.

The light blocking layer is provided between the adjacent coloring layers. The light blocking layer blocks light emitted from an adjacent organic EL element to prevent color mixture between adjacent organic EL elements. Here the coloring layer is provided such that its end portion overlaps with the light blocking layer whereby light leakage can be reduced. As the light blocking layer a material that can block light from the organic EL element can be used for example a black matrix may be formed using a resin material containing a metal material pigment or dye. Note that it is preferable to provide the light blocking layer in a region other than the light emitting portion such as a driver circuit portion in which case undesired leakage of guided light or the like can be suppressed.

Furthermore an overcoat covering the coloring layer and the light blocking layer may be provided. With the overcoat impurities and the like contained in the coloring layer can be prevented from being diffused into an organic EL element. The overcoat is formed with a material that transmits light emitted from the organic EL element for example an inorganic insulating film such as a silicon nitride film or a silicon oxide film an organic insulating film such as an acrylic film or a polyimide film can be used and further a stacked layer structure of an organic insulating film and an inorganic insulating film may be employed.

In the case where upper surfaces of the coloring layer and the light blocking layer are coated with a material of the bonding layer a material that has high wettability with respect to the material of the bonding layer is preferably used as the material of the overcoat. For example an oxide conductive film such as an ITO film or a metal film such as an Ag film which is thin enough to transmit light is preferably used as the overcoat see .

Next an example of a manufacturing method of a light emitting device is described with reference to and . Here the manufacturing method is described using the light emitting device of Structure Example 1 4 as an example.

First a peeling layer is formed over a formation substrate and the insulating layer is formed over the peeling layer . Next the plurality of transistors the conductive layer the insulating layer the insulating layer the plurality of light emitting elements and the insulating layer are formed over the insulating layer . An opening is formed in the insulating layer the insulating layer and the insulating layer to expose the conductive layer .

In addition a peeling layer is formed over a formation substrate and the insulating layer is formed over the peeling layer . Next the light blocking layer the coloring layer and the overcoat are formed over the insulating layer see .

The formation substrate and the formation substrate can each be a glass substrate a quartz substrate a sapphire substrate a ceramic substrate a metal substrate or the like.

For the glass substrate for example a glass material such as aluminosilicate glass aluminoborosilicate glass or barium borosilicate glass can be used. When the temperature of heat treatment performed later is high a substrate having a strain point of 730 C. or higher is preferably used. Alternatively crystallized glass or the like may be used.

In the case where a glass substrate is used as the formation substrate an insulating film such as a silicon oxide film a silicon oxynitride film a silicon nitride film or a silicon nitride oxide film is preferably formed between the formation substrate and the peeling layer in which case contamination from the glass substrate can be prevented.

The peeling layer and the peeling layer each have a single layer structure or a stacked layer structure containing an element selected from tungsten molybdenum titanium tantalum niobium nickel cobalt zirconium zinc ruthenium rhodium palladium osmium iridium and silicon an alloy material containing any of the elements or a compound material containing any of the elements. A crystal structure of a layer containing silicon may be amorphous microcrystal or polycrystal.

The peeling layer can be formed by a sputtering method a plasma CVD method a coating method a printing method or the like. Note that a coating method includes a spin coating method a droplet discharge method and a dispensing method.

In the case where the peeling layer has a single layer structure a tungsten layer a molybdenum layer or a layer containing a mixture of tungsten and molybdenum is preferably formed. Alternatively a layer containing an oxide or an oxynitride of tungsten a layer containing an oxide or an oxynitride of molybdenum or a layer containing an oxide or an oxynitride of a mixture of tungsten and molybdenum may be formed. Note that a mixture of tungsten and molybdenum is an alloy of tungsten and molybdenum for example.

In the case where the peeling layer is formed to have a stacked layer structure including a layer containing tungsten and a layer containing an oxide of tungsten the layer containing an oxide of tungsten may be formed as follows the layer containing tungsten is formed first and an insulating film formed of an oxide is formed thereover so that the layer containing an oxide of tungsten is formed at the interface between the tungsten layer and the insulating film. Alternatively the layer containing an oxide of tungsten may be formed by performing thermal oxidation treatment oxygen plasma treatment nitrous oxide N plasma treatment treatment with a highly oxidizing solution such as ozone water or the like on the surface of the layer containing tungsten. Plasma treatment or heat treatment may be performed in an atmosphere of oxygen nitrogen or nitrous oxide alone or a mixed gas of any of these gasses and another gas. Surface condition of the peeling layer is changed by the plasma treatment or heat treatment whereby adhesion between the peeling layer and the insulating film formed later can be controlled.

The insulating layer can be formed by a sputtering method a plasma CVD method a coating method a printing method or the like. For example the insulating layer is formed at a temperature higher than or equal to 250 C. and lower than or equal to 400 C. by a plasma CVD method whereby the insulating layer can be a dense film having an extremely high gas barrier property.

Then a material for the bonding layer is applied to a surface of the formation substrate over which the coloring layer and the like are formed or a surface of the formation substrate over which the light emitting element and the like are formed and the surfaces are bonded to each other with the bonding layer provided therebetween .

Next the formation substrate is peeled and the exposed insulating layer and the flexible substrate are attached to each other with the bonding layer . Furthermore the formation substrate is peeled and the exposed insulating layer and the flexible substrate are attached to each other with the bonding layer . Although the flexible substrate does not overlap with the conductive layer in the flexible substrate may overlap with the conductive layer .

Note that a variety of peeling methods can be used for peeling of the formation substrate in one embodiment of the present invention. For example when a layer including a metal oxide film is formed as the peeling layer on the side in contact with the layer to be peeled the metal oxide film is embrittled by crystallization whereby the layer to be peeled can be peeled from the formation substrate. Alternatively when an amorphous silicon film containing hydrogen is formed as the peeling layer between a formation substrate having high heat resistance and a layer to be peeled the amorphous silicon film is removed by laser light irradiation or etching whereby the layer to be peeled can be peeled from the formation substrate. Alternatively after a layer including a metal oxide film is formed as the peeling layer on the side in contact with the layer to be peeled the metal oxide film is embrittled by crystallization and part of the peeling layer is removed by etching using a solution or a fluoride gas such as NF BrF or ClF whereby the peeling can be performed at the embrittled metal oxide film. Further alternatively a method performed as follows may be employed a film containing nitrogen oxygen hydrogen or the like e.g. an amorphous silicon film containing hydrogen an alloy film containing hydrogen an alloy film containing oxygen or the like is used as the peeling layer and the peeling layer is irradiated with laser light to release the nitrogen oxygen or hydrogen contained in the peeling layer as gas thereby promoting peeling between the layer to be peeled and the formation substrate. Alternatively it is possible to use a method in which the formation substrate provided with the layer to be peeled is removed mechanically or by etching using a solution or a fluoride gas such as NF BrF or ClF or the like. In this case the peeling layer is not necessarily provided.

When a plurality of the above described peeling methods are combined the peeling process can be performed easily. In other words peeling can be performed with physical force by a machine or the like after performing laser light irradiation etching on the peeling layer with a gas a solution or the like or mechanical removal with a sharp knife scalpel or the like so that the peeling layer and the layer to be peeled can be easily separated from each other.

Peeling of the layer to be peeled from the formation substrate may be performed by soaking the interface between the peeling layer and the layer to be peeled in a liquid. Further alternatively the peeling may be performed while pouring a liquid during the peeling. Furthermore an adverse effect on the functional element included in the layer to be peeled due to static electricity caused at peeling e.g. a phenomenon in which a semiconductor element is damaged by static electricity can be suppressed. Note that a liquid may be sprayed in an atomized form or in a vaporized form. As the liquid pure water an organic solvent a neutral alkaline or acid aqueous solution an aqueous solution in which a salt is dissolved or the like can be used.

As another peeling method in the case where the peeling layer is formed using tungsten it is preferable that the peeling be performed while etching the peeling layer using a mixed solution of ammonium water and a hydrogen peroxide solution.

Note that the peeling layer is not necessarily provided in the case where peeling at an interface between the formation substrate and the layer to be peeled is possible. For example a glass substrate is used as the formation substrate and an organic resin such as polyimide polyester polyolefin polyamide polycarbonate or acrylic is formed in contact with the glass substrate. Next adhesion between the formation substrate and the organic resin is improved by laser light irradiation or heat treatment. Then an insulating film a transistor and the like are formed over the organic resin. After that peeling at the interface between the formation substrate and the organic resin can be performed by performing laser light irradiation with higher energy density higher than the above laser light irradiation or performing heat treatment at a higher temperature than the above heat treatment. Moreover the interface between the formation substrate and the organic resin may be soaked in a liquid to be separated when peeled.

Since the insulating film the transistor and the like are formed over the organic resin having low heat resistance in the above method it is impossible to expose the substrate to high temperatures in the manufacturing process. Here a manufacturing process at high temperatures is dispensable for a transistor including an oxide semiconductor therefore the transistor can be favorably formed over the organic resin.

Note that the organic resin may be used as the substrate of the light emitting device. Alternatively the organic resin may be removed and another substrate may be attached to the exposed surface of the layer to be peeled using an adhesive.

Alternatively peeling at the interface between a metal layer and the organic resin may be performed in the following manner the metal layer is provided between the formation substrate and the organic resin and current is made to flow in the metal layer so that the metal layer is heated.

Lastly an opening is formed in the insulating layer and the bonding layer to expose the conductive layer . In the case where the flexible substrate overlaps with the conductive layer the opening is formed also in the flexible substrate and the bonding layer . The method for forming the opening is not particularly limited and may be for example a laser ablation method an etching method an ion beam sputtering method or the like. As another method a slit may be made in a film over the conductive layer with a sharp knife or the like and part of the film may be peeled by physical force.

Note that in this specification and the like a display element a display device which is a device including a display element a light emitting element and a light emitting device which is a device including a light emitting element can employ various modes or can include various elements. Examples of a display element a display device a light emitting element or a light emitting device include a display medium whose contrast luminance reflectance transmittance or the like is changed by electromagnetic action such as an EL element e.g. an EL element including organic and inorganic materials an organic EL element or an inorganic EL element an LED e.g. a white LED a red LED a green LED or a blue LED a transistor a transistor that emits light depending on current an electron emitter a liquid crystal element electronic ink an electrophoretic element a grating light valve GLV a plasma display panel PDP a micro electro mechanical system MEMS a digital micromirror device DMD a digital micro shutter DMS interferometric modulator IMOD element an electrowetting element a piezoelectric ceramic display or a carbon nanotube. Examples of display devices including electron emitters are a field emission display FED and an SED type flat panel display SED surface conduction electron emitter display .

In this specification and the like an active matrix method in which an active element a non linear element is included in a pixel or a passive matrix method in which an active element is not included in a pixel can be used.

In the active matrix method as an active element not only a transistor but also a variety of active elements can be used. For example an MIM metal insulator metal a TFD thin film diode or the like can also be used. Since such an element has few numbers of manufacturing steps manufacturing cost can be reduced or yield can be improved. Furthermore since the size of these elements is small the aperture ratio can be improved so that power consumption can be reduced or higher luminance can be achieved.

Since an active element is not used in a passive matrix method the number of manufacturing steps is small so that the manufacturing cost can be reduced or the yield can be improved. Furthermore since an active element is not used the aperture ratio can be improved so that power consumption can be reduced or higher luminance can be achieved.

In this embodiment a structure of a bendable touch panel will be described with reference to and . Note that Embodiment 2 can be referred to for a material of each layer.

Although a touch panel including an organic EL element is described in this embodiment as an example one embodiment of the present invention is not limited to this example. In one embodiment of the present invention for example a touch panel including another element described in Embodiment 2 as an example can be formed.

The display portion includes a plurality of pixels and a plurality of imaging pixels . The imaging pixels can sense a touch of a finger or the like on the display portion . Thus a touch sensor can be formed using the imaging pixels .

Each of the pixels includes a plurality of sub pixels e.g. a sub pixel R . In addition in the sub pixels light emitting elements and pixel circuits that can supply electric power for driving the light emitting elements are provided.

The pixel circuits are electrically connected to wirings through which selection signals are supplied and wirings through which image signals are supplied.

Furthermore the touch panel is provided with a scan line driver circuit that can supply selection signals to the pixels and an image signal line driver circuit that can supply image signals to the pixels .

The imaging pixels include photoelectric conversion elements and imaging pixel circuits that drive the photoelectric conversion elements.

The imaging pixel circuits are electrically connected to wirings through which control signals are supplied and wirings through which power supply potentials are supplied.

Examples of the control signal include a signal for selecting an imaging pixel circuit from which a recorded imaging signal is read a signal for initializing an imaging pixel circuit a signal for determining the time it takes for an imaging pixel circuit to sense light and the like.

The touch panel is provided with an imaging pixel driver circuit that can supply control signals to the imaging pixels and an imaging signal line driver circuit that reads out imaging signals.

Materials with which unintended passage of impurities is inhibited can be favorably used in the substrate and the substrate . For example materials with a vapor permeability lower than or equal to 10g m day preferably lower than or equal to 10g m day can be favorably used.

The substrate can be favorably formed using a material whose coefficient of linear expansion is substantially equal to that of the substrate . For example the coefficient of linear expansion of the materials are preferably lower than or equal to 1 10 K further preferably lower than or equal to 5 10 K and still further preferably lower than or equal to 1 10 K.

The substrate is a stacked body including a flexible substrate an insulating layer that prevents diffusion of unintentional impurities to light emitting elements and a bonding layer that attaches the insulating layer to the flexible substrate

The substrate is a stacked body including a flexible substrate an insulating layer that prevents diffusion of unintentional impurities to the light emitting elements and a bonding layer that attaches the insulating layer to the substrate

For example materials that include polyester polyolefin polyamide e.g. nylon aramid polyimide polycarbonate or a resin having an acrylic bond an urethane bond an epoxy bond or a siloxane bond can be used for the bonding layer.

A sealing layer attaches the substrate to the substrate . The sealing layer has a refractive index higher than that of the air. The pixel circuits and the light emitting elements e.g. a light emitting element R are provided between the substrate and the substrate .

Each of the pixels includes the sub pixel R a sub pixel G and a sub pixel B see . The sub pixel R includes a light emitting module R the sub pixel G includes a light emitting module G and the sub pixel B includes a light emitting module B.

For example the sub pixel R includes the light emitting element R and the pixel circuit that can supply electric power to the light emitting element R and includes a transistor see . Furthermore the light emitting module R includes the light emitting element R and an optical element e.g. a coloring layer R .

The light emitting element R includes a lower electrode R an upper electrode and an EL layer between the lower electrode R and the upper electrode see .

The EL layer includes a light emitting unit a light emitting unit and an intermediate layer between the light emitting units and

The light emitting module R includes the coloring layer R on the substrate . The coloring layer transmits light of a particular wavelength and is for example a layer that selectively transmits light of red green or blue color. A region that transmits light emitted from the light emitting element as it is may be provided as well.

The light emitting module R for example includes the sealing layer that is in contact with the light emitting element R and the coloring layer R.

The coloring layer R is positioned in a region overlapping with the light emitting element R. Accordingly part of light emitted from the light emitting element R passes through the sealing layer and through the coloring layer R and is emitted to the outside of the light emitting module R as indicated by arrows in .

The touch panel includes a light blocking layer BM on the substrate . The light blocking layer BM is provided so as to surround the coloring layer e.g. the coloring layer R .

The touch panel includes an anti reflective layer positioned in a region overlapping with the display portion . As the anti reflective layer a circular polarizing plate can be used for example.

The touch panel includes an insulating layer . The insulating layer covers the transistor . Note that the insulating layer can be used as a layer for planarizing unevenness caused by the pixel circuits. An insulating layer on which a layer that can suppress diffusion of impurities to the transistor and the like is stacked can be used as the insulating layer .

The touch panel includes the light emitting elements e.g. the light emitting element R over the insulating layer .

The touch panel includes over the insulating layer a partition that overlaps with an end portion of the lower electrode R. In addition a spacer that controls the distance between the substrate and the substrate is provided on the partition .

The image signal line driver circuit includes a transistor and a capacitor . Note that the driver circuit can be formed in the same process and over the same substrate as those of the pixel circuits. As illustrated in the transistor may include a second gate over the insulating layer . The second gate may be electrically connected to a gate of the transistor or different potentials may be supplied to these gates. Alternatively if necessary the second gate may be provided for the transistor the transistor or the like.

The imaging pixels each include a photoelectric conversion element and an imaging pixel circuit for sensing light received by the photoelectric conversion element . The imaging pixel circuit includes a transistor

The touch panel includes a wiring through which a signal can be supplied. The wiring is provided with a terminal . Note that an FPC through which a signal such as an image signal or a synchronization signal can be supplied is electrically connected to the terminal . Note that a printed wiring board PWB may be attached to the FPC .

Transistors formed in the same process can be used as the transistor the transistor the transistor and the like.

Gates sources and drains of the transistors and various wirings and electrodes that form the touch panel can be formed to have a single layer structure or a stacked layer structure using as a material any of metals such as aluminum titanium chromium nickel copper yttrium zirconium molybdenum silver tantalum and tungsten or an alloy containing any of these metals as its main component. For example a single layer structure of an aluminum film containing silicon a two layer structure in which an aluminum film is stacked over a titanium film a two layer structure in which an aluminum film is stacked over a tungsten film a two layer structure in which a copper film is stacked over a copper magnesium aluminum alloy film a two layer structure in which a copper film is stacked over a titanium film a two layer structure in which a copper film is stacked over a tungsten film a three layer structure in which a titanium film or a titanium nitride film an aluminum film or a copper film and a titanium film or a titanium nitride film are stacked in this order a three layer structure in which a molybdenum film or a molybdenum nitride film an aluminum film or a copper film and a molybdenum film or a molybdenum nitride film are stacked in this order and the like can be given. Note that a transparent conductive material containing indium oxide tin oxide or zinc oxide may be used. Copper containing manganese is preferably used in which case the shape can be processed by etching with high controllability.

The touch panel includes a display portion and a touch sensor see . Furthermore the touch panel includes the substrate the substrate and a substrate . Note that the substrate the substrate and the substrate each have flexibility.

The display portion includes the substrate a plurality of pixels over the substrate and a plurality of wirings through which signals are supplied to the pixels. The plurality of wirings are led to a peripheral portion of the substrate and part of the plurality of wirings form a terminal . The terminal is electrically connected to an FPC .

The substrate includes the touch sensor and a plurality of wirings electrically connected to the touch sensor . The plurality of wirings are led to a peripheral portion of the substrate and part of the plurality of wirings form a terminal The terminal is electrically connected to an FPC . Note that in electrodes wirings and the like of the touch sensor provided on the back side of the substrate the side facing the substrate are indicated by solid lines for clarity.

As the touch sensor for example a capacitive touch sensor can be used. Examples of the capacitive touch sensor are a surface capacitive touch sensor and a projected capacitive touch sensor.

Examples of the projected capacitive touch sensor are a self capacitive touch sensor and a mutual capacitive touch sensor which differ mainly in the driving method. The use of a mutual capacitive type is preferable because multiple points can be sensed simultaneously.

Note that a variety of sensors that can sense the closeness or the contact of a sensing target such as a finger can be used.

The projected capacitive touch sensor includes first electrodes and second electrodes . The first electrodes are electrically connected to any of the plurality of wirings and the second electrodes are electrically connected to any of the other wirings .

The second electrodes each have a shape of a plurality of quadrangles arranged in one direction with one corner of a quadrangle connected to one corner of another quadrangle as illustrated in .

The first electrodes each have a quadrangular shape and are arranged in a direction intersecting with the direction in which the second electrodes extend.

A wiring electrically connects two first electrodes between which one of the second electrodes is positioned. The intersecting area of the one of the second electrodes and the wiring is preferably as small as possible. Such a structure allows a reduction in the area of a region where the electrodes are not provided reducing unevenness in transmittance. As a result unevenness in luminance of light from the touch sensor can be reduced.

Note that the shapes of the first electrodes and the second electrodes are not limited to the above mentioned shapes and can be any of a variety of shapes. For example a plurality of first electrodes each having a stripe shape may be provided so that space between two adjacent first electrodes are reduced as much as possible and a plurality of second electrodes each having a stripe shape may be provided so as to intersect the first electrodes with an insulating layer sandwiched between the first electrodes and the second electrodes. In that case two adjacent second electrodes may be spaced apart from each other. Moreover between the two adjacent second electrodes it is preferable to provide a dummy electrode which is electrically insulated from these electrodes whereby the area of a region having a different transmittance can be reduced.

The touch sensor includes the substrate the first electrodes and the second electrodes provided in a staggered arrangement on the substrate an insulating layer covering the first electrodes and the second electrodes and the wiring that electrically connects the adjacent first electrodes to each other.

A bonding layer attaches the substrate to the substrate so that the touch sensor overlaps with the display portion as illustrated in .

The first electrodes and the second electrodes are formed using a light transmitting conductive material. As a light transmitting conductive material a conductive oxide such as indium oxide indium tin oxide indium zinc oxide zinc oxide or zinc oxide to which gallium is added can be used. Note that a film including graphene may be used as well. The film including graphene can be formed for example by reducing a film containing graphene oxide. As a reducing method a method with application of heat or the like can be employed.

The first electrodes and the second electrodes may be formed by depositing a light transmitting conductive material on the substrate by a sputtering method and then removing an unnecessary portion by a variety of patterning technique such as photolithography.

Examples of a material for the insulating layer are a resin such as acrylic or an epoxy resin a resin having a siloxane bond and an inorganic insulating material such as silicon oxide silicon oxynitride or aluminum oxide.

Furthermore openings reaching the first electrodes are formed in the insulating layer and the wiring electrically connects the adjacent first electrodes . A light transmitting conductive material can be favorably used as the wiring because the aperture ratio of the touch panel can be increased. Moreover a material with higher conductivity than the conductivities of the first electrode and the second electrode can be favorably used for the wiring because electric resistance can be reduced.

Each of the second electrodes extends in one direction and the second electrodes are provided in the form of stripes.

Adjacent first electrodes are provided with one of the second electrodes provided therebetween and are electrically connected by the wiring .

Note that the first electrodes are not necessarily arranged in the direction orthogonal to the one of the second electrodes .

The wirings are electrically connected to the first electrodes and the second electrodes . Part of the wirings serves as a terminal For the wirings a metal material such as aluminum gold platinum silver nickel titanium tungsten chromium molybdenum iron cobalt copper or palladium or an alloy material containing any of these metal materials can be used.

Note that an insulating layer covering the insulating layer and the wiring may be provided to protect the touch sensor .

As the connection layer any of various anisotropic conductive films ACF anisotropic conductive pastes ACP or the like can be used.

The bonding layer has a light transmitting property. For example a thermosetting resin or an ultraviolet curable resin can be used specifically a resin such as an acrylic resin a urethane resin an epoxy resin or a resin having a siloxane bond can be used.

The display portion includes a plurality of pixels arranged in a matrix. Each of the pixels includes a display element and a pixel circuit for driving the display element.

In this embodiment an example of using an organic EL element that emits white light as a display element will be described however the display element is not limited to such an element.

For example organic EL elements that emit light of different colors may be included in sub pixels so that the light of different colors can be emitted from the respective sub pixels.

Structures which are similar to those of the substrate the substrate and the sealing layer in Structure Example 2 1 can be applied to the substrate the substrate and the sealing layer in Structure Example 2 2.

The sub pixel R includes a light emitting element R and the pixel circuit that can supply electric power to the light emitting element R and includes a transistor . Furthermore the light emitting module R includes the light emitting element R and an optical element e.g. a coloring layer R .

The light emitting element R includes a lower electrode an upper electrode and an EL layer between the lower electrode and the upper electrode.

In the case where the sealing layer is provided on the light extraction side the sealing layer is in contact with the light emitting element R and the coloring layer R.

The coloring layer R is positioned in a region overlapping with the light emitting element R. Accordingly part of light emitted from the light emitting element R passes through the coloring layer R and is emitted to the outside of the light emitting module R as indicated by arrows in .

The display portion includes a light blocking layer BM on the light extraction side. The light blocking layer BM is provided so as to surround the coloring layer e.g. the coloring layer R .

The display portion includes an anti reflective layer positioned in a region overlapping with pixels. As the anti reflective layer a circular polarizing plate can be used for example.

The display portion includes an insulating film . The insulating film covers the transistor . Note that the insulating film can be used as a layer for planarizing unevenness caused by the pixel circuits. A stacked film including a layer that can prevent diffusion of impurities can be used as the insulating film . This can prevent the reliability of the transistor or the like from being lowered by diffusion of unintentional impurities.

The display portion includes the light emitting elements e.g. the light emitting element R over the insulating film .

The display portion includes over the insulating film a partition that overlaps with an end portion of the lower electrode. In addition a spacer that controls the distance between the substrate and the substrate is provided on the partition .

A scan line driver circuit includes a transistor and a capacitor . Note that the driver circuit can be formed in the same process and over the same substrate as those of the pixel circuits.

The display portion includes a wiring through which a signal can be supplied. The wiring is provided with a terminal . Note that the FPC through which a signal such as an image signal or a synchronization signal can be supplied is electrically connected to the terminal .

The display portion includes wirings such as scan lines signal lines and power supply lines. Any of the various conductive films described above can be used as the wirings.

Any of various kinds of transistors can be used in the display portion . A structure in the case of using bottom gate transistors in the display portion is illustrated in .

For example a semiconductor layer containing an oxide semiconductor amorphous silicon or the like can be used in the transistor and the transistor illustrated in .

For example a semiconductor layer containing polycrystalline silicon that is obtained by crystallization process such as laser annealing can be used in the transistor and the transistor illustrated in .

For example a semiconductor layer including polycrystalline silicon a single crystal silicon film that is transferred from a single crystal silicon substrate or the like can be used in the transistor and the transistor illustrated in .

The coloring layer R is positioned in a region overlapping with the light emitting element R. The light emitting element R illustrated in emits light to the side where the transistor is provided. Accordingly part of light emitted from the light emitting element R passes through the coloring layer R and is emitted to the outside of the light emitting module R as indicated by arrows in .

The display portion includes the light blocking layer BM on the light extraction side. The light blocking layer BM is provided so as to surround the coloring layer e.g. the coloring layer R .

The bonding layer is provided between the substrate and the substrate and attaches the touch sensor to the display portion .

Any of various kinds of transistors can be used in the display portion . A structure in the case of using bottom gate transistors in the display portion is illustrated in .

For example a semiconductor layer containing an oxide semiconductor amorphous silicon or the like can be used in the transistor and the transistor illustrated in .

For example a semiconductor layer containing polycrystalline silicon or the like can be used in the transistor and the transistor illustrated in .

For example a semiconductor layer containing polycrystalline silicon a transferred single crystal silicon film or the like can be used in the transistor and the transistor illustrated in .

In this example a subjective evaluation experiment was carried out to examine what conditions make viewers feel a stereoscopic effect in a two dimensional image. Evaluation results are shown below. A 3.93 inch sized organic EL display having a resolution of 458 ppi was used as a display device. There were 10 or more examinees viewers in each experiment. The visual distance was 30 cm and experiments were carried out in a dark place.

The definition of an image is one indicator of the stereoscopic effects in a two dimensional image for the viewers. For example a stereoscopic effect felt from an image in the case of viewing a moving image having a definition of 229 ppi was stronger than that felt from an image in the case of viewing a moving image having a definition of 114.5 ppi. Almost the same stereoscopic effects were felt from both an image in the case of viewing a moving image having a definition of 229 ppi and an image in the case of viewing a moving image having a definition of 458 ppi. Accordingly it is possible for the viewers to feel stereoscopic effects in a two dimensional image when the definition of the image is sufficiently high.

In addition contrast of an image is another indicator of the stereoscopic effect in a two dimensional image for the viewers. For example stereoscopic effects that the viewers felt became weaker when the luminance of black displayed in the display device used for viewing was gradually changed from a minimum value to a higher value. Accordingly it is possible for the viewers to feel stereoscopic effects in a two dimensional image as the contrast of the image becomes higher.

Moreover a viewer can feel a stereoscopic effect in a two dimensional image either in the case of a still image or in the case of a moving image. In particular the viewers can feel stereoscopic effects in a two dimensional image more easily in the case of a moving image. Furthermore the viewers can feel stereoscopic effects in a two dimensional image either in the case of a monochrome image or a full color image.

Recognition is another indicator of the stereoscopic effects in a two dimensional image for the viewers. For example stereoscopic effects that the viewers felt become weaker when treatment that disturbs recognition of the content of an image such as making an image seen by the viewers upside down or inverting color of the image is performed. Accordingly the viewers need to recognize the content of an image to feel stereoscopic effects in a two dimensional image.

In this example a result of examining a relation between the stereoscopic effects that the viewers felt and the focal length will be described.

In this example the focal length of eyes of the viewers when viewing a two dimensional image displayed on a display device was measured.

As the display device two kinds of display devices which were a flat panel organic EL display 3.93 inch 458 ppi and a contrast ratio of 100000 1 or more and a flat panel liquid crystal display 3.5 inch 326 ppi and a contrast ratio of 800 1 were used. Note that each viewer responded in sensitivity evaluation carried out in advance that he she felt a stronger stereoscopic effect in the displayed two dimensional image when seeing the flat panel organic EL display than the flat panel liquid crystal display.

For the measurement of the focal length Binocular Auto Reflex Keratometer WAM 5500 manufactured by REXXAM Co. Ltd. was used.

The two dimensional images displayed on the two kinds of display devices are the same moving images reproduced for 15 seconds. The moving images were each repeated three times. The viewers followed the images in similar ways in the first half of the moving images for 15 seconds the viewers saw an object they felt was located on the front side and in the second half of the moving images the viewers saw the object they felt was located on the back side. The visual distance was 30 cm and the luminance of the display device was 300 cd m.

In this example a result of sensitivity evaluation carried out to verify whether a viewer can feel a stereoscopic effect in a two dimensional image displayed on a display device including a display portion having a curved surface will be described.

The display device used for the sensitivity evaluation was a 3.4 inch sized flexible organic EL display with a definition of 326 ppi. This organic EL display has the structure of Structure Example 1 3 described in Embodiment 2. An oxide semiconductor CAAC OS was used for the transistor. The organic EL display was fabricated by using the manufacturing method described in Embodiment 2.

In four samples of this display device one bent as illustrated in FIG. A is referred to as a sample A one bent as illustrated in FIG. B is referred to as a sample B one bent as illustrated in FIG. C is referred to as a sample C and one bent as illustrated in FIG. D is referred to as a sample D. Each sample had the same curvature when bent with a curvature radius of 50 mm. In addition a comparative sample formed by fixing the display device on a flat glass substrate was prepared. The comparative sample can be referred to as a display device including a display portion without a curved surface. A display device having a display portion and a non display portion illustrated in corresponds to the comparative sample Ref without a frame portion .

The following cases were compared to evaluate whether there is a difference in a stereoscopic effect an effect of making viewers feel an image pops out to the viewer side a pop out effect and a sense of depth of the image the case where a display portion of any of the samples A to D which displayed the same moving images was viewed and the case where a display portion of the comparative sample which displayed the same moving image was viewed. The viewer compared and evaluated the display portion of any of the samples A to D and the display portion of the comparative sample that are laid side by side. There were 35 examinees.

For the evaluation a semantic differential SD method was used. Specifically the display portion of any of the samples A to D was viewed by comparing with the display portion of the comparative sample and whether there was a stereoscopic effect a pop out effect and a sense of depth in the moving image on a scale of 2 to 2 extremely strong 2 strong 1 not different 0 weak 1 and extremely weak 2 was evaluated.

According to and it is found that when the display portion having a curved surface is viewed a stereoscopic effect a pop out effect and a sense of depth in the image are strong as compared with the case of viewing the display portion without a curved surface regardless of the curved direction of the display portions.

In particular in the sample A and the sample C having a convex surface on the viewer side a strong pop out effect was obtained as compared with the sample B and the sample D having a concave surface on the viewer side. In addition in the sample B and the sample D having a concave surface on the viewer side a strong sense of depth was obtained as compared with the sample A and the sample C having a convex surface on the viewer side.

When the sample A with a display portion bent on the viewer side in a horizontal direction so as to have a convex surface and the sample C with a display portion bent on the viewer side in a vertical direction so as to have a convex surface were compared with each other there was statistically no significant difference in the intensity of a stereoscopic effect. In a similar manner when the sample B with a display portion bent on the viewer side in a horizontal direction so as to have a concave surface and the sample D with a display portion bent on the viewer side in a vertical direction so as to have a concave surface were compared with each other there was statistically no significant difference in the intensity of a stereoscopic effect.

Meanwhile when examinees were each questioned in which sample they felt the strongest stereoscopic effect those answered the sample A those answered the sample B those answered the sample C and those answered the sample D were 43 26 17 and 14 of the total respectively. Accordingly as a result of actual comparison there was a tendency to obtain a strong stereoscopic effect in the case of bending the display portion in a horizontal direction as compared with the case of bending the display portion in a vertical direction. This is probably because a difference between information that enters a right eye and information that enters a left eye of a viewer can be made large. Since eyes of humans are arranged in a horizontal direction the sample A and the sample B which was curved in a horizontal direction and in which distortion was caused in a horizontal direction gave a viewer a higher effect obtained by the curvature than the sample C and the sample D which was curved in a vertical direction and in which distortion was not caused in a horizontal direction.

Furthermore according to it was found that between the sample A and the sample B curved in a horizontal direction a stronger stereoscopic effect was obtained in the sample A having a convex surface on the viewer side than in the sample B. This is considered to be due to the difference in the distance between a viewer and a display portion.

When having a convex surface on the viewer side the amount of change in the distance between the left eye of a viewer and a display portion is large and much information travel to the brain of the viewer as compared with the case of having a concave surface on the viewer side therefore the viewer easily has an optical illusion and senses as if a stereoscopic effect is increased.

As described above it was found that a display device including a display portion having a curved surface of one embodiment of the present invention can have a strong stereoscopic effect pop out effect and sense of depth in a two dimensional image as compared with the display device including the display portion without a curved surface.

Next results of sensitivity evaluation carried out to verify a difference in a stereoscopic effect that a viewer feels which was made by a curvature radius of the curved surface in the display portion are described.

The display device used for the sensitivity evaluation was a 3.4 inch sized flexible organic EL display with a definition of 326 ppi. The structure and the manufacturing method are similar to those of the display device used for the above sensitivity evaluation.

In two samples of this display device one bent as illustrated in FIG. A is referred to as a sample a and one bent as illustrated in FIG. B is referred to as a sample b. In addition a comparative sample formed by fixing the display device on a flat glass substrate was prepared. Curvature radiuses of the sample a and the sample b were each four kinds 30 mm 50 mm 100 mm and 200 mm. Note that the samples bent at R 30 mm are in the state where the curvature is increased to the degree close to a limit within the range in which the entire display fits in a visual field of a viewer.

The following cases were compared to evaluate whether there is a difference in a stereoscopic effect naturalness here whether there is uncomfortable feeling fatigue and desirousness of actually using the sample as a device the case where a display portion of the sample a or the sample b which both displayed the same moving image and was bent at any of four kinds of curvature radiuses was viewed and the case where a display portion of the comparative sample which displayed the same moving image was viewed. The viewer compared and evaluated the display portion of the sample a or the sample b and the display portion of the comparative sample that are laid side by side. There were 24 examinees.

For the evaluation an SD method was used. The display portion of the sample a or the sample b was viewed by comparing with the display portion of the comparative sample and whether there was a stereoscopic effect naturalness fatigue and desirousness of actually using the sample as a device in the moving image on the above scale was evaluated in a manner similar to that of the above sensitivity evaluation.

As shown in and it is found that the convex surface with a stronger pop out effect than the flat surface and the concave surface with a stronger sense of depth than the flat surface in the above sensitivity evaluation each have a condition of a curvature radius which effectively increases the stereoscopic effect.

By comprehensively judging this experiment the sample a having a convex surface and the sample b having a concave surface can effectively obtain strong stereoscopic effects with curvature radiuses R of 100 mm and 200 mm respectively.

Meanwhile it was also observed that the optimum condition differs depending on the viewer. The display device of one embodiment of the present invention described as an example in Embodiment 1 is effective in that a viewer can feel a strong stereoscopic effect or sense of depth in a two dimensional image because the degree of a curvature can be adjusted by the viewer or the display device so that curvature suitable for the viewer can be obtained.

In this example a result of sensitivity evaluation carried out to verify whether a viewer can feel a stereoscopic effect in a two dimensional image displayed on a display device will be described.

The display device used for the sensitivity evaluation was a 13.5 inch sized flexible organic EL display with a definition of 326 ppi. This organic EL display has the structure of Structure Example 1 3 described in Embodiment 2. An oxide semiconductor CAAC OS was used for the transistor. The organic EL display was fabricated by using the manufacturing method described in Embodiment2.

A sample of this display device which is bent in a vertical direction as illustrated in so as to have a convex surface on the viewer side is referred to as a sample E. Another sample in which the sample E is viewed through an opening of a light blocking flat frame portion as illustrated in is referred to as a sample F. Another sample in which the sample E is viewed through an opening of a frame portion which is bent in a horizontal direction as illustrated in so as to have a convex surface on the viewer side is referred to as a sample G. In addition a comparative sample formed by fixing the display device on a flat glass substrate and was viewed through an opening of a light blocking flat frame portion was prepared as illustrated in .

The viewer sees a moving image displayed on the display portion from the front unless otherwise described. The distance between the viewer and the display portion was 50 cm or more and 60 cm or less. Evaluation was performed in a lighted room. The distance between the frame portion and the display portion was 10 cm. A sheet of black drawing paper was used for the light blocking frame portion.

When the distance between a viewer and the display portion is 60 cm the size of an opening of the light blocking frame portion and the size of the display portion appear to be substantially the same from the viewer side an inner frame the periphery of the opening of the frame portion appears to substantially align with an end portion of the display portion when the distance between the frame portion and the display portion is 10 cm. Therefore when the distance between the frame portion and the display portion exceeds 10 cm the viewer can see the end portion of the display portion through the opening of the frame portion.

In this example the sample E and the sample F were compared the comparative sample and the sample F were compared and the sample F and the sample G were compared.

The following cases were compared to evaluate whether there is a difference in a stereoscopic effect a pop out effect a sense of depth and naturalness here whether there is uncomfortable feeling the case where a display portion of one of the samples was viewed and the case where a display portion of the other sample was viewed which both displayed the same moving image. There were 7 examinees.

For the evaluation an SD method was used. Specifically a stereoscopic effect a pop out effect a sense of depth and naturalness in the moving image of the display portion of the other sample were evaluated by comparing with the case of viewing the display portion of the one sample on a scale of 2 to 2 extremely strong 2 strong 1 not different 0 weak 1 and extremely weak 2 .

From the result of it was found that the display device including the display portion having a curved surface can have a stronger stereoscopic effect pop out effect and sense of depth when viewing the display portion through an opening of a frame portion than viewing the display portion without through the opening of the frame portion. In addition it was found that a viewer did not feel large uncomfortable feeling even with a frame portion from the result that naturalness did not change.

As described above it was found that even when a display portion is viewed through an opening of a frame portion a display device including a display portion having a curved surface of one embodiment of the present invention can have a strong stereoscopic effect pop out effect and sense of depth in a two dimensional image.

From the result of it was found that the display device including the display portion having a curved surface can have a stronger stereoscopic effect pop out effect and sense of depth when viewing the display portion through an opening of a frame portion than viewing the display device including the display portion without a curved surface through the opening of the frame portion. In addition it was found that a viewer did not feel large uncomfortable feeling even when the display portion has a curved surface from the result that naturalness did not change.

From the result of it was found that the display device including the display portion having a curved surface can have a stronger stereoscopic effect pop out effect and sense of depth when viewing the display portion through an opening of a curved frame portion than viewing the display portion through an opening of a flat frame portion. In addition it was found that a viewer did not feel large uncomfortable feeling even when the frame portion was curved from the result that naturalness did not change.

Note that although not shown in a graph when the end portion of the display portion was able to be seen through the opening of the frame portion a strong stereoscopic effect pop out effect and sense of depth were unlikely to be obtained and further a stereoscopic effect a pop out effect or a sense of depth were weakened as compared with the case where the display portion was viewed without through the opening of the frame portion. In addition when the end portion of the display portion was able to be seen through the opening of the frame portion the viewer felt tired strongly and the image appeared abnormal to the viewer. Accordingly in the display device of one embodiment the present invention it is preferable that a distance between the frame portion and the display portion be able to be controlled so that the end portion of the display portion overlaps with the frame portion and a viewer cannot see the end portion of the display portion.

As described above it was found that the display device including the display portion having a curved surface can have a stronger stereoscopic effect pop out effect and sense of depth when viewing the display portion through the opening of the frame portion than viewing the display portion without through the opening of the frame portion. In particular it was found that a strong stereoscopic effect pop out effect and sense of depth were able to be obtained by using a curved frame portion as compared with the case of using a flat frame portion.

This example focused on the involuntary eye movement of a viewer at the time of viewing a two dimensional image displayed on a display device. The involuntary eye movement is minute movement of eyes. Eyes keep moving even when the sight line stays at the same place as in the case of viewing a stationary body. Being continuously affected by the same stimulus a visual cell gets tired with the stimulus and cannot recognize objects. The involuntary eye movement is considered as a physiological phenomenon for continuing perception of visual information. The involuntary eye movement can be classified into microsaccade intermittent and minute saccade of a visual point which is also referred to as flick drift a curvilinear oscillation and tremor a minute oscillation . Of the involuntary eye movement microsaccade and drift are concerned with recognition of a high resolution image therefore the possibility exists that the amount of the involuntary eye movement affects the stereoscopic recognition.

In this example as the display device two kinds of display devices which are a flat panel organic EL display 5.9 inch 249 ppi and a contrast ratio of 100000 1 or more and a flat panel liquid crystal display 6.05 inch 212 ppi and a contrast ratio of 91 1 were used.

In this example eye movement of examinees when the display device was viewed was measured using a limbus tracking method.

The two dimensional images displayed on the two kinds of display devices are the same still images. The eye movement of an examinee was measured under a condition in which the examinee paid attention to a black Landolt ring which was displayed in a white background luminance of 200 cd m .

This example focused on the amount of generated microsaccade from the measurement result of eye movement. shows the amount of microsaccade generated in each examinee for each of the organic EL display and the liquid crystal display. In the vertical axis represents the amount of generated microsaccade. indicates that the occurrence frequency of microsaccade in the organic EL display is greater than that in the liquid crystal display. As the result of this example it was found that there was a difference between the organic EL display and the liquid crystal display in the amount of generated microsaccade.

This application is based on Japanese Patent Application serial no. 2013 244743 filed with Japan Patent Office on Nov. 27 2013 Japanese Patent Application serial no. 2014 132607 filed with Japan Patent Office on Jun. 27 2014 and Japanese Patent Application serial no. 2014 180540 filed with Japan Patent Office on Sep. 4 2014 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

