---

title: Open API digital video recorder and method of making and using same
abstract: A digital video recorder is disclosed. The digital video recorder includes at least one memory device, a plurality of communication access points for receiving at least one program play, an open application programming interface associated with the at least one memory device, and at least one correlation engine in communication with the open application programming interface. The plurality of applications correspondent to the open application programming interface allow a user to manipulate metadata associated with ones of the programs plays and the metadata relates to interframe interactivity with detailed aspects of the ones of the program plays. The at least one correlation engine provides for correlation among at least for the interframes of the program play to ones of the interframes of other ones of the program plays, and among the interframe interactivity to the interframes of the program play to interframe interactivity with the other ones of the interframes of the other ones of the program plays.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09282370&OS=09282370&RS=09282370
owner: 
number: 09282370
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140721
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 218 345 entitled OPEN API DIGITAL VIDEO RECORDER AND METHOD OF MAKING AND USING SAME filed Jul. 14 2008 which claims priority under 35 USC 119 e to U.S. Patent Application No. 60 959 395 entitled OPEN API DIGITAL VIDEO RECORDER AND METHOD OF MAKING AND USING SAME filed Jul. 13 2007 with inventors Chad Steelberg and Ryan Steelberg the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed to application software and more particularly to an open API digital video recorder and a method of making and using same.

A digital video recorder is disclosed. The digital video recorder includes at least one memory device a plurality of communication access points for receiving at least one program play an open application programming interface associated with the at least one memory device and at least one correlation engine in communication with the open application programming interface. The plurality of applications correspondent to the open application programming interface allow a user to manipulate metadata associated with ones of the programs plays and the metadata relates to interframe interactivity with detailed aspects of the ones of the program plays. The at least one correlation engine provides for correlation among at least for the interframes of the program play to ones of the interframes of other ones of the program plays and among the interframe interactivity to the interframes of the program play to interframe interactivity with the other ones of the interframes of the other ones of the program plays.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for the purposes of clarity many other elements found in typical interactive and application programming interface API systems and methods. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other elements are desirable and or required in order to implement the present invention. However because such elements are well known in the art and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention a discussion of such elements is not provided herein.

The DVR of the present invention may thus have accessible thereto a plurality of communication media types including but not limited to cable television channels satellite television channels the worldwide web email capabilities data including video and audio libraries and the like each of which communication media types may form the basis for the creation of a program play in which one or more programs audio or video are presented to a user. In prior embodiments television programs that play through the DVR have associated therewith a limited amount of metadata that is indicative only of thematic principally outerclip aspects of the television program such as time of the program play length of the program play title of the program play description of program play and significant actors or actresses associated with the program of the program play. The limited metadata associated with the program play received over one or more of the respective communication access points is then made available in the prior art for limited manipulation by the user with regard only to those aspects of the program play with which the thematic metadata is associated. Because the API of prior art DVR technology is closed programmers are not universally afforded the opportunity to make greater use of information in any respective program play.

The present invention provides via an open API DVR an accessibility by the DVR to program plays or applications over any of a plurality of communication access point types mentioned hereinabove as well as to play program plays of any communication media type as also mentioned hereinabove. As such a myriad of applications may be written by programmers for operation on or in any of the variety of communication media and for operation over nearly any communication access point type and such applications may be pushed pulled or accessible over any of the aforementioned communication access points. Further such application may allow for pushing or pulling for numerous interactivity types including server interactivity peer interactivity including point to point sharing and program play feed interactivity for example. Such interactivity may be via an accessing of exposed application hooks to the aforementioned metadata.

Such applications written for the open API of the present invention may provide improved interactivity by for example exposing via the application metadata associated with each and every aspect of the program play on any given communication media. For example metadata may be associated with each word spoken sound made and picture shown in any given program play such as a television or radio program and as such programmers may expose via the open API information not merely contained within or directly associated with the program play but that is rather associated with the metadata associated with the program play. The metadata employed in the present invention is discussed further hereinbelow with respect to . The metadata may be made accessible to the user via for example application software in the form of a program play overlay in which an overlay user interface is placed at the forefront of the program play currently in view of the user which program play is a television program in the example immediately hereinabove. Such an overlay may take the form of for example an overlay that provides links dropdown menus windows or other readily accessible user interfaces. Further it will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art that applications may be written that provide multiple windows menus or the like simultaneously to a single user wherein each window plays over a television interface and provides a different program play and consequently a different overlay to the user thereby providing an enhanced version of the known picture in picture program plays.

As mentioned hereinabove the metadata associated with a particular program play of a particular communication media may allow for a hook to accessibility of any aspect of the program play including but not limited to externally accessible media such as other program plays starring the same actor other program plays starring the same musician advertising related to goods illustrated in the program play purchasing points for goods illustrated in the program play external information such as World Wide Web www or Web information regarding items illustrated in the program play and the like. Such external information may be accessible via a user activation of aspects of an overlay on the program play or the accessing of certain aspects of an overlay or the program play itself may lead the user to menus windows or the like outside the program play and the desired information may be accessible from such menus windows or the like.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the open API DVR may allow for an application having an eBay overlay to be placed on a particular television show such as The Antiques Roadshow and the user may thereby access via the overlay similar items available on eBay to those items being illustrated in the show. Alternatively rather than the eBay overlay being placed upon The Antiques Roadshow the program play of the communication media television which is received by the DVR via the communication access point cable or satellite eBay an affiliate or a third party programmer may create a unique channel for reception by the DVR over a different communication access point which eBay channel shows still photographs videos audio or the like that relate to items of frequent interest to buyers of eBay goods and the eBay overlay may be placed thereover to allow a user to access further information with regard to those goods or access points of purchase such as by moving the user to the World Wide Web upon activation by the user of aspects of the overlay. As such eBay may create its own unique communications media channel for display over television and may send this new channel for communication to the DVR via WiMax or the like and as such new television channels can be created for access via communication access points not generally used currently by televisions.

In an additional exemplary embodiment a user may be viewing a highly fashion related program play such as Desperate Housewives on ABC in which different fashions or accessories are highly prevalent. If all such information associated with that program play is metatagged the user may access information on the fashions being worn or the accessories being used and such information may include accessibility to other external information such as comments from fashion editors available purchase points of the items of interest and external payment sites to allow for the purchase of those items of interest.

In an additional exemplary embodiment a user may enter to an application pulled to the DVR via the open API a list of that user s fantasy sports players. The present invention may make available to that user a menu listing those fantasy sports players and the location at which those fantasy sports players may be watched recorded or auto recorded on any communication media via any communication access point in real time. Additionally certain players may be highlighted such as when that particular player s team possesses the ball so that the user may switch between communication media or communication access points to in a targeted manner allow that user to watch record or auto record that user s players. Additionally and alternatively with regard to this exemplary embodiment an application may allow the user to open multiple windows to watch multiple of that user s players in real time and may maintain in each window an overlay or may display in a separate window the menu of fantasy players or may allow the user to toggle between the menu and the video or audio of the games being played.

Thus for example a user may select what events certain actions by the DVR are to trigger on such as autorecording certain events such as each time a football running back entered into the fantasy football menu interface scores a touchdown. As such a user can create his or her favorite or most frequently accessed metatags and the metatags may be placed on all content and on the user s accessing of all content.

In a broader sense these exemplary embodiments illustrate that one or more applications pulled or pushed via the open API to the DVR may allow the user to assess in real time and or watch or auto record multiple programs portions of programs snippets ads or the like of interest inside or outside of any program play such as via a selectable toolbar generated in accordance with a unique application use multiple windows of interest simultaneously be presented with multiple overlays of interest be presented with multiple menus of interest all of which may allow the user to access multiple pieces of information or external information not currently available to the user via a television program play. Further for example as discussed hereinabove the user may use any application such as a software overlay while watching a football game for example to access any information related to all or any portion of that program play such as information on the types of shoes worn by that user s favorite player where the user may buy the jersey worn by that user s favorite player may access an online purchase point for those shoes or that jersey and or may pay using an on line point of payment account such as PayPal all from the DVR of the present invention.

As such the present invention may also provide a highly targeted marketing tool for advertisers in that each user will access information of interest to that particular user thereby ensuring that an advertiser s advertisement is played to a user that is most interested in the item being sold. Thereby advertisers will have less need to place ads in program plays in which 99 of the viewers of the program play are not interested in the item being sold. Further the present invention will allow such commerce interaction by each user to be uniquely tracked.

Not only will the addition of metadata add more targeted marketing opportunities such as to make television ads into drill downs rather than just thirty second videos but additionally the addition of metadata will allow add on programming associated with television shows which is presently found on line on the Web to be brought back to the television media. For example on line universes that are created for association with shows on television may via metadata menus and or overlays that access the metadata allow for those on line universes to be brought back on to television.

Further the applications written for the DVR are of the present invention may as do present DVR s collect metadata on use by the user of the DVR as mentioned hereinabove. Without violation of privacy laws such information may using the applications for the open API discussed herein be passed to third parties and the metadata may be collected thereby allowing third parties to generate yet more targeted advertising more targeted programs plays and more communication media such as communication channels of interest to the highest number of users.

In light of that discussed hereinabove the open API of the DVR of the present invention may provide hooks into all items of interest and into the operating environment of the DVR and the exposure of those hooks via the open API will allow third parties to tie into those hooks. Further users can access applications associated with those hooks via the metadata tags associated with those hooks. Such metadata tags may allow for example applications that make use of overlays video overlays water marking auto pause auto record toolbars menus and the like. The applications so generated may be locally processed on the DVR such as for certified applications or can be streamed to the DVR or can be associated with entirely new externally generated communication channels. Additionally as discussed hereinabove although the DVR may have associated therewith some local storage vast quantities of remote storage may be made available such as at external sites accessible via WiMax or the like. As such a user may be charged for any level of desired storage for programming and will not be limited for storage by the hardware of the DVR resident within the user s home.

Thus the present invention may make available any of a variety of communication channels and any of a variety of applications for accessing metatags associated with the communication media being played on any of those communication channels. For example a real estate channel may be made available and the real estate available on the real estate channel may be targeted to the preferences entered by the user of interest. Alternatively a completely interactive gaming channel may be made available wherein trivia games casino games or the like may be made available in accordance with user preferences and actions undertaken by the user may be received by the DVR as metadata that may be made available to third parties. Alternatively complex interfaces may be made available via a metadata feed. For example a user may watch a nature show on the Discovery Channel and may hear or see mention of an animal of interest to that user. The user may then access such as via an overlay a link associated with that animal of interest. That link may provide the user with access to for example Google Earth which may allow for illustration to the user of all animals of that type anywhere in the world that have been tagged and placed back into the wild and that are open to sponsorship by a user. The user may be then given the option to sponsor one of the animals in a location of interest to the user and in the event the user selects an animal to sponsor an on line payment interface such as PayPal may be accessible to the user for payment of the sponsorship fee. Alternatively either within the program play on the Discovery Channel or after drilling down to the animal of interest the user may be presented with a mention of a country of interest to the user such as Botswana. The user may pause and either exit the program play via the overlay or may exit the Google Earth interface displaying the animals of interest and may redirect to find information such as on Wikipedia on Botswana. After the user has redirected a sufficient number of times to receive the information of interest to the user with regard to Botswana the user may elect to be redirected back to the initial location of interest which in this example is either the program play or the information on the animal of interest.

The present invention may also include social networking. Such social networking may include videoconferencing video messaging or placement of personal information or personal ads on line or placement of video or audio generated by a user that the user would like to make accessible to third parties from the communication access points accessible to the user via the open API DVR thus making the user the star of his or her own show.

The present invention may additionally include for example a mobile DVR wherein DVR features accessed via mobile televisions televisions not within the home residence navigation screens within vehicles or the like accessible to any of the aforementioned communication access points and such mobile DVR may communication with the home open API DVR.

More specifically with regard to the above referenced metatagging the metatagging of the present invention is typically to take place interclip and may be thematically or non thematically related. More specifically the tagging may be done interclip and interframe and or frame by frame and may relate to words pictures and the like that occur within the frame whether or not related to the thematic nature of the programming. Such tags may be associated with the interframe programming by for example the automatic nature of the application then running may be inserted remotely at the programming for the programming displayed or may inserted by the users as the programming is viewed. Further such tagging allows for actions to be taken on discrete portions of an overall program play unlike the actions made available by the prior art. Additionally such metatags may be streamed in content or in a separate metastream tied to the program play as discussed with particularity immediately hereinbelow.

As will be apparent to those skilled in the art a metatag as used herein is a computer readable language such as xml html or the like syntax statement that may be sent along with a program play such as by being sent as a secondary stream fed to a user along with a streamed program play or that may be sent as part of a program play such as in the header information that describes the computing characteristics of the program play. The metatag may convey information about that with which it is associated i.e. the program play in this example and such information may or may not actually be found within such a program play. For example such metatags may be hooks such as for user commands or may make requests of the user or may be used as keywords in searching of program plays or program play portions. Each such metatag must be given a unique name or tag and have associated therewith unique content. Such association of keywords and content may be done automatically such as by an automated search of a document such as a script of a program play or such as by spider searching or such as by index searching or may be done manually.

Further metatags included within frames may be linked and or correlated to other metatags within or outside of the program then within view. For example correlation may be performed from metatag to metatag in frame or from metatag to metatag from a frame of one program play to a frame in a separate program play or from metatag to content stream for example. Alternatively correlation of metatag to metatag may occur from a frame within one program play to another frame within the same program play or interframe between program plays. Correlation may be employed using authoring standard techniques and or languages such as Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language SMIL or Microsoft Synchronized Accessible Media Interchange SAMI among others which may be separate from and in a different syntax than the program play stream s . Further or alternatively correlation functions and correlation branching known to those skilled in the art of mathematics may be employed by the applications programmed into the open API of the present invention with regard to each frame or frame portion of every program play accessible to the open API DVR.

In certain exemplary embodiments watermarking techniques typically employed for embedding correlated audiovisual interaction information may be used to correlate frames inter frames or program plays in the present invention with or without modification to the typical metatag data stream or headers see e.g. Stream Based Interactive Video Language Authoring using Correlated Audiovisual Watermarking Xu et al. ICITA 05 Proceedings IEEE . Further as such upon placement into or into association with the program play inframe metatags may have correlated therewith not only aspects of inframes of other program plays but additionally any of the number of functions to be performed by the respective applications discussed herein throughout.

The association of metatags to other metatags may in fact create clickable video. Clickable video provides true interactivity to a watcher of any program play that presents the video to the user. As such for example the user may pause the video and use display objects known to those skilled in the art such as a mouse cursor to interact with portions of the video or may call up such an interactive cursor to interact with the video while the video is playing. Further metatagging may allow for variations in the mouse cursor that correspond to those aspects of the video currently playing when the mouse cursor is brought up on the screen. For example if a portion of the video includes an actor in the video drinking a can of Coke the mouse cursor if called during that portion of the video might display as a miniature can of Coke.

Thus once the metastream is defined clickable video frames can be created correlation to the same or other metastreams may be performed and passive processing may be performed with third party API s. Such third party processing may include for example remote commands such as DVR commands that may for example allow for the taping of certain snippets of interest within larger program shows.

The manner of metatagging used in the present invention may for example be any methodology of metatagging known to those skilled in the art. Further a program play may be metatagged before initial broadcast before rebroadcast or during the streaming of a broadcast stream. As such rights in such metatagging may be available and divisible by pre initial broadcast in broadcast and rebroadcast for example.

The present invention may be hierarchically organized as shown in . illustrates as the focal point of the present invention a video which will be displayed to the user as a program play. The video is metatagged as shown and the hierarchy outside but associated with the metatags may then communicate with and using the metatags via a message bus. Surrounding the message bus may be a variety of filters and surrounding the filters may be a variety of applications. The applications may access any of a number of the filters and both the applications and the filters may have accessible thereto the message bus. The message bus may make available a variety of operation commands for interaction with the metatags and the metatags may provide interoperability of the commands with the video.

The filters may be mapped into a variety of commands made available in the message bus and thus the filters may be of a variety of types. For example filters may include key word filters commerce type filters location filters geolocation filters correlation filters insertion filters such as for secondary feeds and social filters programmatic publishing filters automatic publishing filters and the like. The mapping of user commands performed by the filters and performed by the applications that run the filters may cause the application of one filter type to be a causation for application of a filter of another type. As such applications can likewise feed one another such as wherein an application of one type such as a search application accesses an application of another type such as a Wikipedia engine whereby answers to a user inquiry into a search engine can be obtained.

Further for example one application and or filter may allow the saving of certain aspects of a program based on the application of another application indicating that the user wishes to seek certain snippets associated with certain topics. Further once such snippets are saved yet another application may allow the shipment of the frames or snippets of interest based on the metadata illustrating that such frames are of interest between users such as via email programs internet mail or WiFi for example. Additionally as mentioned hereinabove the open API aspects of the DVR of the present invention may allow for programmatic publishing wherein an application actively publishes certain metadata or certain information received into the programming via for example automatic publishing wherein such publishing occurs passively .

In a more specific example illustrated in certain applications and or filters interact with the message bus. As illustrated the applications and or filters may have associated therewith core applications and may be surrounded by metatags in a manner similar to the base video of interest. In an exemplary embodiment the metatags of the application into which the user expresses interest in the location of certain animals of the world may come from a mapping application wherein interaction B as shown interacts with the message bus based on the interaction B from the user. The metatag reached by interaction B may be a geographic location within a program then within view of the user and may lead to interaction A reaching out to make other assessments of the user s mapped location of interest. For example a different application may then be accessed by the first application based on the correlation of interactions A and B and this different application may assess a variety of different animals available animal sponsorships records of national disasters phone books flora or the like that are resident in that particular geographic location. Such information may then be fed back to the user via the message bus interface or the interest from the user may simply be written to the external application and may be tracked by the application programmer. As such multiple applications may collaborate as between the applications may correlate as between the applications and may filter as between the applications and such actions may occur automatically via programmatic publishing and or may be based on certain permissions.

The filtering and applications of the present invention made available via the open API DVR interface may thus be dependent on the capability to create an instream metastream that is not necessarily thematically related to any of the programs shown to the user. Such an instream metastream may include a metastream associated with any instream programming which may include not only the programming of interest but also advertising associated with or accessible from the programming of interest.

Although the invention has been described and pictured in a preferred form with a certain degree of particularity it is understood that the present disclosure of the preferred form has been made by way of example and that numerous changes in the details of construction and combination and arrangement of parts and steps may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

