---

title: Flameless smoke pot
abstract: A flameless smoke pot and a method of generating smoke using the smoke pot. The smoke pot includes a casing having a side wall with an inlet openings and containing a plurality of perforated tubes containing red phosphorous pellets. A heat generating pyrotechnic composition is disposed at a first end of the casing to generate heat which flows through the perforated tubes containing red phosphorous pellets to produce white phosphoric acid clouds of smoke. The white phosphoric acid clouds of smoke are combined with atmospheric an containing water to generate the white phosphoric acid clouds of aerosol smoke. The white phosphoric acid clouds of aerosol smoke are directed through a perforated flame arrester whereby visible flame is prevented from being created.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08955442&OS=08955442&RS=08955442
owner: The United States of America As Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08955442
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140708
---
This application is a divisional of application Ser. No. 13 799 514 filed on Mar. 13 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 776 692 which is commonly assigned.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention relates generally to smoke pots and more particularly to a flameless smoke pot and method of operating the flameless smoke pot.

Smoke pots are typically used as ground to ground or ground to air signaling devices target or landing zone marking devices or as screening devices for military unit movements. Prior art and experimentation teach that obscuration efficiency is a function of particulate size refractive index and concentration in the atmosphere. Conventional pyrotechnic obscurant compositions are therefore based on materials which generate a dense primary particulate such as inorganic oxides or compounds which easily form atmospheric aerosols such as hydrochloric acid polyphosphates or phosphoric acid.

Chemicals in the category of screening smokes are those which when dispersed in air produce a cloud of finely divided particles of solid liquid or both These are used to shield tactical operations or disrupt the movements of the enemy. Outstanding examples of such materials are fuel oil used in artificial fog generators white phosphorus sulfur trioxide titanium tetrachloride and so called zinc chloride smokes. Each of the above listed smoke generating compositions is characterized by certain advantages and disadvantages in military operations depending upon the importance of such factors as mobility of the smoke producing apparatus toxicity logistical considerations and the total obscuring power of the composition employed.

According to the present invention there is disclosed a flameless smoke pot. The smoke pot includes a casing having a side wall with air inlet openings containing a plurality of perforated tubes containing red phosphorous pellets. A heat generating pyrotechnic composition is disposed at a first end of the casing. A perforated flame arrester disposed above a second end of the casing. An igniting device is arranged in contact with the heat generating pyrotechnic composition.

According to the present invention there is disclosed a homeless smoke pot including an elongated cylinder having an inlet opening at a first end an outlet opening at a second end and a side wall with air inlet openings. A plurality of perforated tubes containing red phosphorous pellets disposed within the elongated container. A heat generating pyrotechnic composition is disposed within a container having an outlet opening mounted below the inlet opening at the first end of the elongated container. A perforated flame arrester having an open first end and a closed second end wherein the open first end is disposed above the second end of the elongated container.

Still further according to the present invention a method of generating aerosol smoke with a homeless smoke pot is disclosed. Heat and oxygen generated with a heat generating pyrotechnic composition are directed through one or more perforated tubes containing red phosphorous pellets to produce white phosphoric acid clouds of smoke. The white phosphoric acid clouds of smoke are combined with atmospheric air and water to generate the white phosphoric acid clouds of aerosol smoke. The white phosphoric acid clouds of aerosol smoke are directed through a perforated flame arrester whereby visible flame is prevented from being created.

In the description that follows numerous details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that variations of these specific details are possible while still achieving the results of the present invention. Well known processing steps are generally not described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obfuscating the description of the present invention.

In the description that follows exemplary dimensions may be presented for an illustrative embodiment of the invention. The dimensions should not be interpreted as limiting. The are included to provide a sense of proportion. Generally speaking it is the relationship between various elements where they are located their contrasting compositions and sometimes their relative sizes that is of significance.

In the drawings accompanying the description that follows often both reference numerals and legends labels text descriptions will be used to identify elements. If legends are provided they are intended merely as an aid to the reader and should not in any way be interpreted as limiting.

The present embodiment as shown in provides a flameless smoke pot wherein the physical combination of independent chemical compositions when reacted will produce a dense aerosol smoke particularly adapted for military purposes such as for signaling or for camouflage. The configuration of the smoke pot separates the red phosphorus smoke material from the. heat and oxygen pyrotechnic composition as seen in . It is therefore a general object of the flameless smoke pot to place the red phosphorus apart from the heat generating pyrotechnic composition as described below.

In operation the chemical reaction of the red phosphorous smoke material and the heat generating pyrotechnic composition is as follows Red phosphorus smoke material reacts with oxygen and water to produce smoke. 

As indicated directly below the resulting phosphorus pentoxide PO is highly hygroscopic and attracts enough water to produce dense white phosphoric acid clouds.

The hygroscopic phosphorus acid vapor POadds water from the atmosphere to produce a dense white cloud of an aerosol smoke.

The present invention relates to a smoke producing device which produces a flame that is barely visible. The difficulties in promoting the reactions without flaming are 1 achieving a reaction rate that produces acceptable smoke generation and 2 achieving complete phosphorus conversion. If the red phosphorus and the oxidizer with fuel are not mixed together they can be located so as to optimize the arrangements for their interactions. The low flame concept of the present embodiment is achieved by physically separating the smoke material the red phosphorus pellets and the heat source material the heat generating pyrotechnic composition . The heat source material must supply the smoke material with just the amount of energy needed for generating the smoke. If more energy were provided flaming of the red phosphorus would result as with the currently used phosphorus compositions that produce a yellow flame which identifies the location of the smoke pot location such as to the enemy and is therefore a safety hazard for those using the prior art smoke pot.

As seen in the smoke pot includes an enclosed container having a heat and oxygen pyrotechnic composition on the enclosed bottom end and an opening through the cover of container . Container abuts and is secured to first support plate by any means such as fair example welding or the container can be secured to a bottom base by any means such as welding. The bottom plate can secure the container between the first support plate and the bottom base . For exemplary purposes only four holes and not shown in each corner of bottom base plate can accommodate support pins and that stabilize the smokeless pot as discussed in more detail herein. The heat and oxygen pyrotechnic composition is ignited with an igniting device as described below. After the heat and oxygen pyrotechnic composition has been ignited the hot gas created escapes through an opening through the cover of the container and then flows into an opening through a first support plate having four holes and in each corner The first support plate has substantially the same dimensions as bottom base plate and is disposed above the bottom base plate so that the tour holes overlie the four holes 

The open bottom end of a casing or container such as an elongated cylinder is secured at end by any means such as welding to the support plate . The elongated cylinder is positioned so that it is centered atop the opening through the support plate . The elongated cylinder has air inlets disposed therethrough in its side wall . Support plate and four holes corresponds to the shape and location of holes in bottom base plate . As seen in the elongated cylinder is secured at an open top end by any means such as welding to a second support plate having four holes and in each corner and an opening as seen in therethrough. Support plate and four holes corresponds to the shape and location of holes in bottom base plate and is disposed above the bottom base plate and the first support plate so that the four holes overlie the four holes in plate and the four holes in plate .

As shown in six substantially identical perforated or woven wire containers such as perforated tubes of the type shown in are disposed in elongated cylinder with their bottom ends supported by the upper surface of support plate . The perforated tubes can be arranged in a circular configuration as shown in to form an opening therebetween. The perforated or woven wire tubes may be of any appropriate dimensions and shapes. The perforated or woven wire tubes may be constructed of any suitable material though typically metal including steel. While six 6 perforated tubes are shown it is within the scope of the invention to use more or less tubes within the cylinder .

A central perforated or woven wire container such as a tube as shown in is inserted in the space between the facing surfaces of tubes as shown in The perforated or woven wire tube may be of any appropriate dimensions and shapes and may be constructed of any suitable material though typically metal including steel. A solid partition such as a disc is affixed to the upper end of central tube by any means such as welding as shown in . The diameter of solid disc is greater than tube so that the solid disc rests on the upper ends of tubes . In this way the central tube is supported between the six tubes . The outer diameter of central perforated tube can be selected to press the tubes against each of the cylinders as shown in . When the central perforated tube is in position as shown in the lower end rests against plate so that the central tube is centered over the opening whereby hot gases flow from container through opening through opening in support plate and then into central perforated tube . Since solid disc closes the upper end of central perforated tube so that the hot gases are forced out of the sides of central perforated tube and into the surrounding perforated or woven wire tubes . While one 1 perforated tube is shown it is within the scope of the invention to use more or less tubes within the cylinder .

Atop second support plate is a perforated metal flame arrester which is typically a hollow perforated metallic canister such as cylindrically shaped canister of any suitable dimensions. The flame arrester can be constructed of any casing material such as for example steel. The perforated metal flame arrester sits atop the third support plate and is centered over the opening in support plate so as to cool the exiting gas flowing through the red phosphorous pellets provided in perforated cylinders to below flame temperature as described in more detail hereinafter. The perforated metal flame arrester is held in place by a solid fourth support plate having four holes and in each corner which corresponds to the shape and location of holes in bottom base plate holes in first support plate and holes in second support plate . When the smoke pot is assembled with rods the perforated metal flame arrester is held in place between support plate and sold support plate .

Located within each of the cylindrically shaped perforated or woven wire tubes or containers are red phosphorous pellets preferably having a right circular cylindrical shape. However it is within the terms of the preferred embodiment to use red phosphorous pellets of any desired shape. Note that although the pellets touch each other they are not pressed into the wire tubes or containers because there must be space between the cylindrical sides of adjacent pellets to allow smoke to exit. The phosphorous pellets in perforated cylinders are smoke generating and designed from red phosphorus powder and a binder permitting a right circular cylinder pellet shape such as those from L8AI grenades. These red phosphorous pellets are nominally 0.25 inch in diameter by 0.25 inches long and can be made for example from red phosphorus and a 5 uncured butyl rubber binder.

In general the perforated or woven wire tubes are designed with a relatively small diameter to expose more of the surface of pellets to the heat and oxygen generated by the heat and oxygen pyrotechnic composition . The greater the exposure of the surface of pellets to the heat and oxygen generated the greater the red phosphorus reaction rate and smoke formation.

As illustrated in the six perforated or woven wire tubes are clustered in a circular group and form an elongated opening therebetween. The perforated or woven wire central tube as shown in is inserted in opening between the facing surfaces of tubes as shown in . The solid disc affixed to the upper end of tube as shown in is disposed against the end surfaces of the as shown in to support the perforated or woven wire tube .

In operation the heat and oxygen pyrotechnic composition in container are ignited by a conventional igniting device . The generated heat and oxygen gas passes out of outlet opening of container through the opening in support plate through central perforated tube and into the perforated or woven wire tubes where it engulfs the red phosphorous pellets . Atmospheric air and water enters into the elongated cylinder such as though air inlet openings in the wall of elongated cylinder as shown in to interact with the phosphorus pentoxide PO formed by heating the red phosphorous pellets . Being that the phosphorus pentoxide is highly hygroscopic it attracts enough water from the atmospheric air to produce dense white phosphoric acid clouds of an aerosol smoke. This smoke is particularly adapted for military purposes such as for signaling or for camouflage.

The white phosphoric acid clouds of an aerosol smoke exits from the opening at the top of the tubes and from spaces between tubes and casing flows through opening in support plate and into the perforated metal flame arrester which is typically a hollow cylindrical shaped perforated metallic canister. The resulting dense white phosphoric acid cloud flows through the sides of the flame arrester and around the sides of the support plate . Being that the perforated metal flame arrester sits atop the third support plate and is centered over the opening in support plate any visible flame from the white phosphoric acid cloud is prevented from being created. This is because the exiting smoke formed by the white phosphoric acid cloud is cooled by the perforated metal flame arrester to below flame temperature 

That is the flame arrester functions by forcing a flame front created by heating the red phosphorous pellets to flow through channels i.e. the openings through the perforated or woven wire of the flame arrester which are too narrow to permit the continuance of a flame.

By separating the red phosphorus pellets from the heat generating pyrotechnic composition the quantities and the reaction rates of the independent compositions can be optimized so that the resulting smoke is produced without or substantially without flame.

Although the invention has been shown and described with respect to a certain preferred embodiment or embodiments certain equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art upon the reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components assemblies devices etc. the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component i.e. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary embodiments of the invention. In addition while a particular feature of the invention may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several embodiments such feature may be combined with one or more features of the other embodiments as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

