---

title: Clamping device for securing cables to submerged ferrous hull surface
abstract: A cable clamping arrangement for securing one or more cables to a submerged hull surface of a ship. The cable clamping arrangement includes a plurality of powerful magnetic clamping devices for attaching signal carrying cables to a submerged ferrous submerged hull surface. The cable clamping devices each have a low-profile and are dome shaped to reduce hydrodynamic interference when the ship is travelling at operational speeds. The clamps are equipped to grip a cable in a desired path at a desired tension, thereby increasing the ability to maintain the cable in a fixed manner on the surface while the ship is operating.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09421618&OS=09421618&RS=09421618
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09421618
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140520
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally a cable clamping arrangement for securing a cable to a submerged bull surface more particularly a clamping arrangement including a plurality of powerful magnetic clamping devices for attaching signal carrying cables to a submerged ferrous submerged hull surface.

During sea trials it is often required to mount data collection devices such as video cameras and accompanying cables to the underwater portion of the hull of a ship. These devices may be mounted in a dry dock. Alternatively the cables may also be mounted using underwater methods by divers. Some installation methods may be applicable to both dry dock environments and underwater environments.

Regardless of the method in which the cables may be secured to the bull there is a need for improved cable mounting when the cable is mounted below the ship s waterline for the purpose of underwater operations. For example a commonly used method for securing cables to the submerged hull surface is to weld attachment points. The welding may be done in a dry dock scenario or may be carried out by underwater welding. Regardless these permanent welds are very expensive not easily reversed and not always possible since the inside of the vessel must be certified as gas free. Another known method is to cut holes in the ship hull install a waterproof pass through and run the cables directly through from the inside of the hull. This is also expensive and could risk sinking the vessel.

The implementation of magnetic cable fasteners or guides has been used in non water related environments. If implemented for submerged hulls it would be beneficial because magnetic cable fasteners would simplify underwater cable installations. However the prior art does not teach cable fasteners or guides that are robust enough for either underwater installation or strong enough to work in after installation applications such as when the ship is travelling at operational speeds. For example the prior art teaches a magnetic cable guide but this device uses a magnet that only has a magnetic force of 2.2 lbs. This will not work in an underwater environment as it is not strong enough to hold the cable firmly or to prevent damage by strumming since it does not have internal clamping to firmly hold the cable.

Thus it is desired to have a magnetic cable clamp that robust enough for underwater implementation that can properly clamp and maintain a cable in position even when exposed to working conditions when the ship is traveling at operational speeds. It is also desired to have a clamp that minimizes hydrodynamic drag and that is not easily pulled off the hull when the ship is in operation. It is also desired to have magnetic clamps that are easily and securely installed and easily removed. It is also desired that the signals traveling through the cable are not disturbed by the magnets.

In one aspect the invention is a cable clamping device for securing one or more cables to underwater ferrous surfaces. In this aspect the cable clamping device has a low profile housing body that is substantially dome shaped. The low profile housing body includes a first outer section having a first bore for receiving a first magnet and a second outer section having a second bore for a second magnet. The low profile housing body also includes a middle section having a bottom arch portion defining a cable receiving opening. The middle section extends from the first outer section to the second outer section wherein the first outer section the second outer section and the middle section form a truncated n shaped side profile. In this aspect the cable clamping device also includes a first magnet within the first bore a second magnet within the second bore and a cable gripping member within the bottom arch portion of the middle section for gripping the cable within the cable receiving opening.

In another aspect the invention is a cable clamping arrangement for securing a cable to a submerged hull surface. In this aspect the cable clamping arrangement includes a submerged ferrous hull surface a cable for carrying signals a plurality of cable clamping devices and a cable tension sensor for determining when the cable is secured at a desired tension. In this aspect the cable clamping devices are magnetically attached to submerged ferrous hull surface wherein the cable is held along the submerged ferrous hull surface in a desired path by the plurality of cable clamping devices. According to the invention the cable is in working contact with the cable tension sensor ensuring that the cable is extended at the desired tension. Each of the plurality of cable clamping devices has a low profile housing body that is substantially dome shaped. The low profile housing body has a first outer section having a first bore for receiving a first magnet a second outer section having a second bore for a second magnet and a middle section having a bottom arch portion defining a cable receiving opening. The middle section extends from the first outer section to the second outer section wherein the first outer section the second outer section and the middle section form a truncated n shaped side profile. In this aspect each cable clamping device further includes a first magnet within the first bore a second magnet within the second bore and a cable gripping member within the bottom arch portion of the middle section for gripping the cable within the cable receiving opening.

As outlined below the cable clamping device is for securing cables such as data and video cables to underwater ferrous surfaces. The underwater ferrous surface may be a submerged vessel surface such as the hull of a ship. The clamping device secures the cable in a manner that allows the cable to withstand hydrodynamic forces created when the vessels are operating throughout their full range of speeds. all show the low profile housing of the cable clamping device having rounded edges and the housing being substantially dome shaped. This low profile rounded structure reduces hydrodynamic drag when the vessel is operating. It should be noted that although the cable clamping device with the low profile housing is particularly designed to withstand hydrodynamic forces when submerged on travelling water vessel the cable clamping device may be used in above water applications i.e. in situations when the device is not submerged.

As stated above show the general structure of the cable clamping device . The low profile housing may be broken up into three sections as shown. show the low profile housing having a first outer section a middle section and a second outer section . As shown the sections are divided by imaginary dotted lines and . As shown the middle section extends from the first outer section to the second outer section . As shown in the side view of the first outer section the second outer section and the middle section form a truncated n shaped side.

The exploded illustration of also shows a first magnet for the first bore and a second magnet for the second bore . also shows a faraday cage which as outlined below prevents the first and second magnets from interfering with any signal travelling through a cable that is clamped by the device . The faraday cage includes a flat elongated steel bar having a first connecting protrusion at one end and a second connecting protrusion at the other end. also shows pads which as outlined below are for the grooves and like the grooves may be linear and or curved but may also have other shapes. also shows a cable gripping member .

As outlined above the bottom arch portion defines a cable receiving opening through which one or more cables may be threaded and gripped. shows the cable gripping member being a first rotatable cable cam biased to rotate in a first direction Ras shown and a second rotatable cable cam biased to rotate in a second direction Ropposite to first direction. Arrow Y shows the direction in which a cable approaches and is threaded between first and second rotatable cams and .

Although shows only one cable the cable gripping member i.e. the first and second rotatable cable cams and may be dimensioned to grip a plurality of cables simultaneously along their respective outer surfaces of the cams and . According to this embodiment the cables are vertically stacked as they are threaded and gripped by the cams and . Thus for example first and second rotatable cable cams and may simultaneously grip two vertically stacked cables . The ability to simultaneously grip a plurality of cables may depend on the size of the cables with respect to the size and outer surface area of the cams and .

The dimensions of the housing may be varied according to the application and environment. However according to a particular embodiment of the invention the housing has a length L of about 7 in. a height Hof about 1.50 in. a housing width Wof about 2 in. and an arch width Wof about 2 in. According to this embodiment the bottom arch portion height His about 0.75 in. The outer edge portions and have a radius of curvature R of about 1 in. According to this particular embodiment the magnets and have a diameter D of about 1.27 in. and a height Hof about 0.5 in. According to this embodiment the magnets and are high pull rare earth magnets each having a pull of at least 50 lbs. The powerful magnets and provide the necessary force to securely attach the clamping device to ferrous surfaces. In addition to this attaching force as stated above the low profile rounded structure of the clamping device as well as the dimensions helps to reduce hydrodynamic drag thereby maintaining the device on ferrous hull surfaces even when the vessel is travelling at operational speeds.

As shown the cable is held taut in a desired path by the clamping devices as it extends over the surface . The plurality of cable clamping devices clamp down on the cable maintaining the cable at a desired amount of tension. The cable clamping arrangement shown in also includes a cable tension sensor for determining when the cable is secured at a desired tension. According to an embodiment of the invention the cable tension sensor has a noose through which the cable is threaded. The sensor may also include an audio clicker .

As shown the clicker is attached to the magnet by a pair of strings wires . The clicker is also attached to the noose by a string wire . In operation when the cable tugs the noose to an extent that indicates that a desired cable tension has be reached the connected audio clicker transmits an audio click indicating to an operator such as a diver that the desired cable tension has been ascertained. Returning to although the figure shows only one cable tension sensor the arrangement may include additional cable tension sensors along the cable path.

As shown in the cable clamping arrangement also includes a plurality of cable tension sensors for determining when the cable is secured at a desired tension. In the arrangement however each sensor is attached to a cable clamping device . Similar to the cable tension sensor as outlined with respect to the embodiment of each cable tension sensor has a noose through with the cable is threaded and an audio clicker attached to the noose . However each audio clicker is directly attached to the housing of the respective cable clamping device as opposed to being attached to the surface . As shown each sensor may be attached by a pair of wires attached at extreme sides of the housing thereby providing stability to the arrangement. Thus the cable tension sensors do not require magnets. Regarding the tension sensing operations the sensors operate similarly to the sensor as outlined above. Because each sensor is mounted on the housing of a respective clamping device a cable tension determination can be made at each clamping location.

Regarding the cable clamping arrangements and as outlined above and as illustrated in these arrangements illustrate only one cable being held by the cable clamping devices . It should be noted that according to embodiments of the invention multiple cables may be held by the cable clamping devices . As stated above in embodiments of the cable clamping device having the cable gripping member the rotatable cable cams and may be dimensioned to grip a plurality of cables simultaneously in which the cables are vertically stacked. In embodiments of the cable clamping device having the cable gripping member the form or rubber inserts may be dimensioned to hold multiple cables.

Additionally as outlined above although the cable clamping device with the low profile housing is particularly designed to withstand hydrodynamic forces when submerged on travelling water vessel the cable clamping device may be used in above water applications i.e. in situations when the device is not submerged. Thus according to another embodiment the clamping arrangement shown in may be applied in above water applications. Similarly the clamping arrangement shown in may also be applied in above water applications.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. For example although the underwater ferrous surface may be a submerged vessel surface such as the hull of a ship the underwater ferrous surface may a submarine hull surface. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

