---

title: Systems and methods for determining container contents, locations, and surroundings
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for determining whether and/or when a patient is taking his or her medication and, when appropriate, providing reminders and/or alerts to the patient to improve adherence to a medication regimen. In some embodiments, a medication container is provided that includes a capacitance sensor for sensing the contents of the medication container (e.g., pill count or quantity of liquid medication). The capacitance sensor may include interleaved or interdigitated electrodes oriented vertically, horizontally, or angularly (e.g., diagonally) relative to an axis of the medication container. Reminders and/or alerts to the patient may be triggered based at least in part on the contents of the medication container, when a cap of the container was last opened and/or closed, the location of the medication container, and/or the container's surroundings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09358183&OS=09358183&RS=09358183
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Alabama, for and on behalf of The University of Alabama in Huntsville
number: 09358183
owner_city: Huntsville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140508
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 775 671 filed on Feb. 25 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 754 769 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 61 603 353 filed on Feb. 26 2012 and 61 752 679 filed on Jan. 15 2013 which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to systems and methods for determining whether and or when a patient is taking his or her medication and when appropriate providing appropriate reminders and or alerts to the patient to improve adherence to a medication regimen. In some embodiments a medication container is provided that includes a capacitance sensor for sensing the contents of the medication container e.g. pill count or quantity of liquid medication . In particular embodiments the capacitance sensor includes interleaved or interdigitated electrodes oriented vertically horizontally or diagonally relative to an axis of the medication container or positioned in any other suitable manner for measuring the capacitance attributable to the container contents. In some embodiments the systems and methods described herein trigger reminders and or alerts to the patient based at least in part on data indicative of the contents of the medication container when a cap of the container was last opened and or closed the location of the medication container and or the container s surroundings.

It is estimated that approximately 133 million people suffer from at least one chronic illness in the United States alone and that chronic illnesses lead to approximately seven out of every ten deaths in the United States each year. Medications are often prescribed to alleviate and treat these illnesses yet go unconsumed. With current levels of adherence to medication regimens at or below 50 patients are not properly treating their chronic diseases even though many have access to preventative or palliative medications. Tragically a primary reason for patients not taking their medication is forgetfulness.

In view of the foregoing what are needed are systems and methods for increasing patient adherence to medication regimens. Increasing patient adherence promises to improve patient outcomes and quality of life.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure a medication container is provided that includes a housing e.g. bottle for medication and a cap removably coupled to the housing. In some embodiments the medication container includes a cap sensor configured to sense opening and or closing of the cap. Alternatively or additionally in some embodiments the medication container includes a measurement sensor e.g. capacitance sensor or weight sensor coupled to the housing for sensing a quantity of medication within the housing. In some embodiments the medication container includes a processor configured to trigger a reading of the measurement sensor based at least in part on a status of the cap sensor e.g. triggering a reading of the measurement sensor immediately after or 5 or 10 seconds after the cap sensor indicates that the cap is closed .

In some embodiments the medication container includes a transmitter e.g. transceiver for wirelessly transmitting to a remote computer data regarding a reading of the measurement sensor e.g. data indicative of a number of pills or quantity of liquid medication within the medication container .

In some embodiments the medication container includes a wireless receiver and or an alert e.g. one or more light sources graphical displays text displays and or speakers . For example the wireless receiver may be configured to receive an activation command from or otherwise initiated by a remote computer e.g. a backend system or user computer such as a cellular phone running a suitable communications application for communicating with the medication container . A processor within the medication container may activate the alert based at least in part on the receipt of the activation command by the wireless receiver.

According to another aspect according to some embodiments of the present disclosure a medication container is provided that includes a housing for medication and a capacitance sensor coupled to the housing for sensing a capacitance corresponding to a quantity of the medication within the housing. In some embodiments the capacitance sensor includes multiple conductive electrodes arranged in an interleaved or interdigitated pattern. In some embodiments the medication container includes a capacitance to digital converter for converting the capacitance sensed by the capacitance sensor into digital data.

In some embodiments the conductive electrodes of a capacitance sensor include a first conductive electrode in electrical communication with a first conductive terminal and second and third conductive electrodes in electrical communication with a second conductive terminal. The first conductive electrode may be positioned in between the second and third conductive electrodes. The capacitance attributable to the quantity of the medication within the housing may be sensed in between the first conductive terminal and the second conductive terminal.

The electrodes of a capacitance sensor may have any suitable size shape and or configuration. In some embodiments the conductive electrodes of a capacitance sensor include regularly spaced conductive electrodes in an interleaved pattern. In some embodiments the interleaved pattern of conductive electrodes includes rectangularly shaped or generally rectangularly shaped conductive electrodes. In some embodiments one or more of the electrodes is positioned in parallel generally parallel perpendicular or generally perpendicular to a vertical axis of the medication container when the medication container is in an upright position. In some embodiments one or more of the electrodes is positioned diagonal generally diagonal or in another angular relationship e.g. angled between 35 to 55 degrees relative to a vertical axis of the medication container when the medication container is in an upright position.

In some embodiments the capacitance sensor is configured such that the capacitance corresponding to the medication varies linearly or generally linearly to the quantity of medication within the housing.

In some embodiments the capacitance corresponding to the quantity of the medication varies by between 10 femtoFarads fF to 100 fF per pill that is added to or removed from the housing.

In some embodiments the capacitance corresponding to the quantity of the medication varies by between 250 femtoFarads fF to 450 fF per milliliter of liquid medication that is added to or removed from the housing.

According to yet another aspect according to some embodiments of the present disclosure systems and methods are provided for reminding a patient to consume a medication.

The system may include computer memory configured to store data indicative of a medication regimen associated with a patient. The system may also include one or more computers configured to receive communications from a medication container associated with the patient. The one or more computers may compare data indicative of when a communication was last received by the one or more computers from the medication container e.g. a communication indicating that the patient consumed his or her medication to the data indicative of the medication regimen associated with the patient. Based at least in part on the comparison the one or more computers may trigger a reminder to the patient to consume the medication.

In some embodiments the system and method may include one or more computers configured to receive a communication from the medication container indicating a quantity of medication within the medication container at a particular time. The one or more computers may compare the data indicative of the quantity of the medication within the container to data indicative of a medication regimen associated with the patient. Based at least in part on the comparison the one or more computers may trigger a reminder to the patient to consume the medication.

The foregoing summary is only illustrative of the embodiments disclosed herein. Additional embodiments of the present disclosure including systems methods apparatus computer readable media and means for performing the functions disclosed herein are further described in the detailed description and shown in the figures.

The present disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for increasing patient adherence to medication regimens. is a block diagram of an illustrative system for determining the contents of a medication container and or providing patients with reminders and or alerts to take their medication according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. Medication container may be a bottle or other container for housing prescription or non prescription pills or liquid medication. In some embodiments system includes medication container and backend system which may include one or more servers. In some embodiments system includes user computer e.g. cellular phone tablet computer laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA or desktop computer pharmacy computer and or physician s computer .

Medication container may be communicatively coupled via communications capability to one or more e.g. all of backend system user computer pharmacy computer and or physician s computer . For example in some embodiments medication container includes a wireless transmitter or transceiver for transmitting and or receiving communications including for example a cellular modem e.g. Telit CC864 Dual Sierra Wireless 6087 or 5011 or Janus CDMA Terminus Plug In CDMA864C . Communications capability may be a wireless link e.g. radio frequency RF link Bluetooth link 2G link 3G link other communications link or combination of communication links. In various embodiments medication container may utilize the same or different communications links for communicating with different computers e.g. utilizing different communications links for communicating with backend system and user computer .

In some embodiments medication container may communicate with backend system directly via one or more communications links of communications capability . In other embodiments communications capability may include one or more intermediate devices that enable communications between medication container and backend system . For example in some embodiments communications capability may include a dedicated base station within the user s home e.g. a base station configured to plug into a wall outlet or other intermediate computer s for enabling communications with backend system e.g. cell phone personal digital assistant PDA or general purpose computer such as a desktop computer running a communications application . In such embodiments medication container may communicate with an intermediate device via a wired or wireless connection e.g. USB connection Bluetooth connection or other wired or wireless connection . In turn the intermediate device s may communicate with backend system via suitable wired and or wireless connection s e.g. cellular network local area network LAN wide area network such as the Internet and or public switched telephone network PSTN . In some embodiments the intermediate device s may communicate to backend system some or all of the data communicated by medication container and or other data.

Medication container may include one or more components for enabling its operation intelligence and or communication with backend system and or other computer s . For example medication container may include local power source for powering electrical circuitry within the container e.g. lithium battery lithium polymer battery graphene battery super capacitor and or associated charging circuitry computer s or processor s e.g. microcontroller such as ATMEL ATmega32U4 ATMELmega328 or PIC16F57 memory e.g. random access memory RAM and or one or more antennas included as part of transceiver block e.g. 800 1900 MHz antenna .

In some embodiments medication container may include one or more sensors for sensing a quantity of medication within the container e.g. pill count or quantity of liquid medication . For example in some embodiments medication container may include at least one capacitance sensor.

In some embodiments medication container includes a capacitance sensor that includes interleaved or interdigitated electrodes for sensing a quantity of medication within the container. For example the capacitance sensor may include one or more conductive electrodes in electrical communication with a first conductive electrical terminal e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 20 30 50 or 100 electrodes or more or any number of electrodes or range of numbers of electrodes in between . One or more of these electrodes may be interlaced e.g. in an opposing comb configuration with conductive electrode s associated with a second conductive electrical terminal e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 20 30 50 or 100 electrodes or more or any number of electrodes or range of numbers of electrodes in between . For example in some embodiments an electrode in electrical communication with a first electrical terminal may be positioned between two electrodes in electrical communication with a second electrical terminal. A measurement indicative of the capacitance between the first and second electrical terminals may correspond to a quantity of medication within medication container e.g. number of pills or quantity of liquid medication . In some embodiments the capacitance may be measured between the terminals upon application of an excitation signal at one or more of the terminals such as for example an excitation signal of 3 volts or less and 250 kilohertz kHz or less e.g. 32 kHz or 1 kHz .

In some embodiments at least a portion e.g. all of the interleaved or interdigitated electrodes of a capacitance sensor may be oriented horizontally vertically diagonally 45 degrees or in any other angular relationship s e.g. between 0 and 30 between 30 and 60 degrees or between 60 and 90 degrees or any other value or range of values in between relative to a normal and upright position of medication container . In some embodiments the electrodes of capacitance sensor may be shielded e.g. with copper foil for example to improve noise immunity.

When content sensor within medication container is a capacitance sensor it may provide a capacitance reading e.g. analog reading that is converted into digital data via a suitable capacitance to digital converter in medication container e.g. Analog Devices AD7746 . In some embodiments the digital data may be stored in memory . Medication container may transmit the digital data and or related information which corresponds to a quantity of medication in container to backend system and or other computer s e.g. patient s cellular phone via communications capability .

In some embodiments backend system and or other computer s e.g. patient s cellular phone may receive data from medication container corresponding to measurement s by sensor s in medication container and convert it into quantit ies of medication such as for example one or more pill counts or quantities of liquid medication. For example backend system and or other computer s may include memory for storing conversion data correlating capacitance and or other readings to pill counts or quantities of liquid medication for various types of medication including for example pill size shape density composition and or capacitance linear regression constants. One or more computer s or processor s in backend system and or other computer s may utilize the conversion data to convert the capacitance measurement s into one or more quantities of medication. In other embodiments processor s within medication container may convert capacitance measurement s into one or more quantities of medication for example before transmitting digital data corresponding to the quantit ies to backend system and or other computer s . In some embodiments medication container backend system and or other computer s e.g. patient s cellular phone may trigger one or more reminders and or alerts to the patient to take medication based at least in part on data received as a result of or derived from capacitance measurement s by sensor s . For example an application running on backend system or a patient s cellular phone or tablet computer may receive e.g. from medication container data indicative of the medication contents of medication container and may initiate one or more reminders and or alerts to the patient based at least in part on the data.

Capacitance sensor s for medication container may be formed and or utilized in any suitable manner. For example in some embodiments conductive electrodes e.g. plates for the capacitance sensor may be formed from an adhesive conductor e.g. copper tape . In some embodiments electrodes for the capacitance sensor may be formed from one or more flexible multi layer printed circuit boards PCBs . In some embodiments a dual layer flexible PCB may be utilized to measure capacitance on one layer and act as a grounded electrical shield on the other layer a capacitance subtractor . In some embodiments the exterior of a volume being used to measure capacitance may be grounded. A grounding shield according to some embodiments of the present disclosure adds a static capacitance to the capacitance that a measurement device e.g. digital converter already reads between the two sense electrodes. System may cancel out the static capacitance as part of the capacitance to digital acquisition such that full dynamic range of converter remains available for sensing medication. The grounding electrode s e.g. plate s may advantageously eliminate any variation in the capacitance reading that a nearby object or hand might cause because all of the electric E field lines of the capacitance inside the bottle may terminate inside of the shield such that anything outside the shield does not perturb or does not substantially perturb the field lines. In some embodiments electrodes e.g. copper plates or portions of flexible PCB s for use with capacitance measurements may be over molded with a plastic injection process. In some embodiments conductive e.g. copper plates may be inserted inside of medication container for use in measuring a quantity of medication. In some embodiments conductors for one or more sensors may be imbedded in or otherwise integrated with one or more walls of medication container e.g. slipped or positioned in between a small passage between two plastic walls .

In some embodiments sensor s of medication container may include other types of sensor s including for example weight sensors that detect the weight of medication within medication container e.g. as shown in resistive sensors and or inductive sensors. Additional details regarding medication containers and sensors in accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure are described below in connection with for example .

In some embodiments data indicative of the quantity of medication within medication container may be compared to data indicative of an expected quantity of medication within container . Based at least in part on the comparison system e.g. backend system and or medication container may provide one or reminders and or alerts to the patient to take the medication. In some embodiments data indicative of an expected quantity of medication remaining in a medication container assigned to a given a patient may be determined based at least in part on data indicative of a date and or time the patient filled or picked up the medication an original quantity of medication dispensed to the patient the patient s medication regimen e.g. dose size and number of doses per day and or the date and or time that sensor s measured the quantity of medication remaining within medication container . In some embodiments this comparison may be performed by backend system based on data stored in memory and or by other computer s e.g. patient s cellular phone . In some embodiments this comparison may be performed by processor s in medication container based on information stored in memory .

System may provide different types of reminders and or alerts to patents according to various embodiments. In some embodiments backend system may trigger the initiation of a telephone call e.g. automated message or live operator to a telephone number associated with the patient e.g. a telephone number stored in memory in association with a data record for the patient when system and or medication container determines that the patient has not adhered to the patient s medication regimen. In some embodiments the telephone call may be initiated to the patient s home cellular and or work telephone and or to a telephone number associated with the patient s physician e.g. physician computer family member and or other designee. Alternatively or additionally in some embodiments backend system may trigger an electronic message such as a text message email or other digital message to the patient e.g. patient s cell phone patient s physician e.g. physician computer and or patient s designee as indicated by instructions stored in memory . In some embodiments medication container triggers the issuance of reminders and or alerts to the patient for example via one or more alerts of medication container and or via communication with e.g. text message to a user computer .

In some embodiments medication container may issue one or more alerts when system and or medication container determines that the patient has not adhered to the patient s medication regimen. For example medication container may include one or more light source s e.g. light emitting diodes LEDs that light up when the patient fails to adhere to the patient s medication regimen. For example a light source may light up a certain color or in a blinking pattern and or have differing lights or lighting patterns for different circumstances e.g. a patient forgetting to take medication lack of connectivity to backend server or light of increasing intensity or amount the longer a patient fails to take a medication dose . Light source s may be positioned at any suitable location s on or in medication container including on different areas of a body and or cap. In some embodiments medication container may include words or symbols above specific lights such as for example not connected or take a dose. 

Alternatively or additionally medication container may include other types of alert s including for example a graphical and or text display for displaying text and or graphics e.g. text and or graphics received automatically from backend system and or a speaker for issuing audio alerts. With respect to audio alerts in some embodiments a medication container play different sounds sound patterns and or volumes for different circumstances e.g. a patient forgetting to take medication lack of connectivity to backend server or sound of increasing intensity the longer a patient fails to take a medication dose . In some embodiments medication bottle may play a voice alert e.g. patient s voice family member s voice and or doctor s voice . The voice alert may be stored in memory . The voice alert may be recorded and downloaded to memory using any suitable approach e.g. a user dialing a telephone number and recording the voice alert which is then downloaded via USB or a wireless connection to medication container .

In some embodiments instructions for medication container to activate the light s and or other alerts of medication container may be provided by backend system other computer s e.g. user computer and or medication container . For example such instructions may be provided based at least in part on the above described data indicative of an expected medication quantity for the patient and data indicative of a measured medication quantity remaining within container . In some embodiments backend system other computer s and or medication container may store non transitory computer executable program instructions in memory for implementing a reminder alert escalation chain for medication adherence whereby a patient who does not take medicine as expected is reminded e.g. with different and or multiple reminders alerts until he or she removes the appropriate amount of medication from medication container .

System may adaptively provide different types of reminders and or alerts or timing of reminders or alerts based on a patient s past adherence statistics e.g. stored in memory and or or in memory of user computer . For example in some embodiments backend system other computer s such as user computer and or medication container may utilize one or more machine learning techniques to determine when and which type of reminders to initiate to a patient and or when a patient is most likely to take his or her medication. For example the timing or type of reminders may change depending on when system predicts that the patient is most likely to take his or her medication e.g. the prediction being based at least in part on the day of the week number of dosages etc. . In some embodiments reminders are initiated to patients at times when stored past data indicates that the patient is most likely to open or close medication container e.g. morning between 7 and 8 am in afternoon hour s or evening hour s .

In some embodiments system e.g. medication container and or backend server may trigger reminders and or alerts to a patient based at least in part on data received from a patient s computer or phone . For example phone input such as a text message to backend system e.g. indicating for example medication compliance or non compliance may at least in part cause backend system to trigger a reminder or alert e.g. displayed on or otherwise issued by medication container for the patient to perform a function such as taking medication or obtaining a refill. As another example input or lack of input into an application running on user computer may cause user computer to issue or otherwise trigger a reminder and or alert to the patient.

Medication container may measure and record the quantity of medication within container and or report that information to backend server and or other computer s e.g. user computer at any suitable time or according to any suitable frequency e.g. continuously or substantially continuously . For example in some embodiments medication container may include one or more sensors for detecting when a user has closed or opened a cap of container . In some embodiments a sensor may include a switch that is activated e.g. pressed down when the cap is closed thus signaling that the patient might have just removed medication from the container. After the switch is activated e.g. immediately after the switch is activated or at another time medication container may measure and record a measurement from sensor s indicative of the quantity of medication within the container and or communicate that measurement to backend system .

In some embodiments medication container may wait a predetermined time e.g. between 5 and 10 seconds after a sensor is activated to measure record and or the report back to backend server the data indicative of the quantity of medication within container . In some embodiments non transitory computer program instructions computer logic stored in memory may be utilized by processor s to control this timing function of medication container . For example medication container may only measure record and or report back a measurement to backend server if the switch remains activated the cap remains closed a predetermined time period after the switch was originally activated. This may prevent container from measuring recording and or reporting back a measurement when a patient accidentally activates the switch e.g. presses the switch with the patient s finger before the patient has removed any medication. In some embodiments medication container may store measurement s in memory and may retry to communicate measurement data to backend system and or other computer s if and when an original attempt to communicate the data fails e.g. due to noise in a communications channel or for any other reason .

In some embodiments medication container backend server and or other computer s e.g. user computer may trigger reminders and or alerts to the patient based at least in part on sensor s sensing the closing and or opening of a cap of medication container . For example if medication container backend server and or other computer s determine that a predetermined amount of time has lapsed since the cap was last opened and or closed e.g. a time that exceeds the time between doses according to stored data indicative of a patient s medication regimen medication container backend server and or other computer s may trigger reminder s and or alert s to the patient to take their medication e.g. light source activation graphical display text message audio alert telephone call etc. .

In some embodiments sensor s may measure the contents of medication container at specific times of day e.g. every day at 8 am and 8 pm set intervals e.g. every 4 hours time since the last change e.g. 5 minutes since the container was moved bundled within a short time period initiated upon an action triggered by the user or a third party triggered remotely by a system operator within backend system and or triggered by an application running on user computer . In some embodiments single measurements may be taken when the device is being moved changing environments and or in other ways changed or handled. In some embodiments multiple or a combination of these mechanisms may be utilized which may improve the confidence and accuracy of the system.

It is appreciated that in some embodiments of the present disclosure transitory readings may not be indicative of the steady state contents of medication container and may lead to misleading or inaccurate measurements and conclusions. Accordingly in some embodiments measurements of the container contents are bundled to ensure that this does not occur. For example several sensory readings may be performed by sensor s within a short amount of time to allow system to validate and confirm that the measurement is accurate. If multiple readings within a given time window do not agree e.g. as determined by one or more processor s in medication container backend server and or other computer s such as a personal computer the patient may be alerted e.g. via one or more alerts to change the conditions of the container to enable a more accurate reading. The patient can then make the necessary corrections and initiate a new measurement e.g. either automatically by sensing the container has been moved again or based on other factors like set time duration between notification . The process may be repeated until it is determined that an accurate measurement has been collected. Often containers are moved or in strange positions and if there are changes in the readings between short time periods the system is able to sense the expected irregularity note the potential problem alert the proper party and re initiate a measurement when deemed appropriate.

In some embodiments the system is aware of how long a substance has resided in the container as compared to its expiration date e.g. based on data stored in memory or memory . This may be determined by one or more processor s in medication container backend server and or other computer s such as a personal computer . Accordingly in some embodiments the system is able to alert the patient or designated contact for the substance to be discarded or replaced using any of the alert mechanisms described above and or other alert s .

Medication container may include different types of sensor s in various embodiments. For example in some embodiments sensor may include a detector switch for detecting engagement with a container cap and for outputting a signal or data indicative of an open or closed state. In some embodiments sensor may include an ultrasonic sensor engagement for sensing an open or closed state for the container cap. In other embodiments sensor may include a proximity probe sensor photo interrupter optical switch and or other trigger mechanism for detecting an open or closed state of the container cap.

In some embodiments medication container backend server and or other computer s may trigger reminders and or alerts to the patent based at least in part on a proximity of medication container to a user computer e.g. patient s cellular phone a location e.g. patient s home or an intermediate device e.g. wall mountable dedicated base station in the patient s home . For example an application running on medication container e.g. including computer executable instructions stored in memory may cause container to check or ping wirelessly e.g. periodically or at any other suitable time for the presence of a cellular phone or intermediate device e.g. dedicated base station plugged into a wall outlet which may also be running an application for receiving and monitoring for such communications. As another example a global positioning module in medication container may check e.g. periodically or at any other suitable time whether a location of the bottle matches a location stored in memory. In some embodiments a global positioning module in medication container may register the location s where medication container is opened and closed. Such location data may be stored in memory communicated to backend system for storage in memory and or communicated to other computer s e.g. user computer .

In some embodiments reminders and or alerts to the patient may be triggered based at least in part on proximity of a user computer e.g. patient s cellular phone to medication container a location e.g. patient s home or an intermediate device e.g. wall mountable dedicated base station in the patient s home . For example an application running on user computer e.g. including computer executable instructions stored in memory of computer may cause user computer to check or ping wirelessly e.g. periodically or at any other suitable time for the presence of medication container or an intermediate device which may also be running an application for receiving and monitoring for such communications. As another example a global positioning module in user computer may check e.g. periodically or at any other suitable time whether the location of the phone matches a location stored in memory.

In some embodiments medication container may utilize an open or other application programming interface API . This may allow other devices and systems e.g. backend system user computer and or a pharmacy s computer to communicate with medication container in a more efficient and user friendly manner.

Medication container may have any suitable size and or shape. For example in some embodiments medication container may be a pill bottle. In some embodiments the pill bottle may have a cylindrical or substantially cylindrical body as with conventional pill bottles. The body may have a circular or substantially circular cross section. The cap of medical container may be circular or substantially circular in cross section for affixation to the body. In its normal and upright position the body may extend vertically from a base of the container the base having a circular or substantially circular cross section up to the cap. In other embodiments a body of medication container may be non cylindrical e.g. square elliptical conical rectangular or in decorative ergonomic or child friendly shapes or figures . In some embodiments medication container may have a clamshell shape.

In some embodiments medication container may have multiple compartments. For example a pill or liquid medication bottle may be split or divided e.g. in half or in some other proportionality such that electrical circuitry e.g. cellular modem and or microprocessor etc. is housed in one or more electronics compartments that are separated from but coupled to a compartment for the actual medication. In some embodiments the split or division exists along only a part of the pill bottle e.g. only half way from the bottom to allow the container to house more medication. In some embodiments the division of medication container may ensure that medication does not come into direct physical contact with the electrical circuitry of the container.

In some embodiments medication container may have a conical configuration within the medication compartment to cause medication to gather at the bottom of the container in a specification manner e.g. near sensor s .

In some embodiments medication container may include stickers or other identifiers that affix to a cap and or body of the container. Such identifiers may function to indicate to whom the container belongs.

In some embodiments medication container may include gripping material e.g. rubber or ribbed plastic on at least a portion of the container such as the body and or cap to make the container easier to hold.

In some embodiments medication container may be large enough to house a multi day medication container that fits at least partially into it e.g. a conventional off the shelf pill box available for purchase at a local pharmacy that contains multiple compartments typically one compartment for each day of the week . In some embodiments medication container may include one or more sensor s for sensing when medication is removed from any of the compartments within the multi day medication container.

In some embodiments medication container may include one or more functionalities directed to power management. For example in some embodiments container may include a mini USB micro USB charger or other charging capability for charging a local power source . Local power source e.g. battery may include any suitable type and or shape. In some embodiments medication container may include a retractable charger in or coiled around a portion e.g. bottom of the container that is configured to plug into a wall outlet. In some embodiments some or all of the electronics within medication container e.g. a receiver may power up periodically or according to any other suitable schedule or impetus e.g. once every X amount of time or via an external prompt . This may allow container to conserve power allowing it to selectively turn on to receive reminders e.g. from backend system once every X amount of time and or to receive and or process signals and or data. In some embodiments medication container may include two or more connectivity options having different power consumption levels associated therewith for communicating with backend server and or other computer s e.g. via Bluetooth 2G or 3G . Medication container may initially seek to utilize a less power intensive mode of connectivity to send out signal s to backend server or another device such as a patient s cellular phone e.g. Bluetooth and only if it is unable to connect will it use another more power intensive mode e.g. 3G . In some embodiments medication container may include an ON OFF button or switch. For example once turned on the bottle may not be able to be turned off by a patient. This may allow a pharmacist to turn the bottle on e.g. when ready for use or once it is charged and may conserve power because the container will not drain the local power source as it sits on the store shelf or in storage awaiting assignment to a patient.

In some embodiments medication container may include one or more features that identify or associate the container with for example a patient a data record and or a transmitter or transceiver in the container. For example in some embodiments medication container may include a barcode or other identifier e.g. fixed to or printed on an outer portion of the container . In some embodiments the identifier may be associated with an account number for the patient or a particular module e.g. 3G module inside the container. In some embodiments the identifier may be recorded e.g. scanned by a pharmacist to associate the medication container and its unique identifier with a data record for a particular patient. Data associating the identifier for medication container with the particular patient may be stored in for example memory of backend system memory of medication container and or in memory of pharmacy computer physician computer and or user computer . In some embodiments the identifier may be included in communication s between medication container on one hand and backend system and or other computer s e.g. and or on the other hand. For example medication container may communicate data packet s to backend server and or other computers where the data packet s include data indicative of the identifier and or data indicative of a medication quantity such as data indicative of a capacitance measurement between interleaved or interdigitated electrodes positioned at least partially around a body of the container.

In some embodiments memory and or memory and or other memory of computers and or may store non transitory computer program instructions computer logic for causing computer s or processor s within medication container backend server and or other computers to associate the identifier for the container with a prescription drug dosage refill schedule patient contact information e.g. preferred type s of reminder s and or alert s doctor contact information pharmacy contact information and or any other information associated with a data record for a patient including the information described above e.g. data indicative of medication quantities remaining within container data indicating time since the last medication quantity measurement from container etc. and or to initiate reminder alert and or other functions based on this information. In some embodiments backend server and or other computer s may access stored patient data to determine whether when and or how to contact a patient with reminder s and or alert s to take medication.

In some embodiments medication container may include a button or other user input feature or option e.g. on a portion of a cap or body or on or near where a cap screws into the body that triggers a medication refill. For example when a user activates the user input feature medication container may communicate with backend server a computer associated with the patient s doctor or family member and or a pharmacy computer system that the patient has requested a refill.

In some embodiments medication container may include a button or other user input feature or option e.g. on a cap or body or on or near where a cap screws into the body that allows a patent to alert or speak with someone e.g. doctor or family member . For example activating this option for a certain period of time may elicit a certain response e.g. holding it for 10 seconds causes a doctor to be notified to call the patient . When a user activates this user input feature medication container may communicate with backend server a computer associated with the patient s doctor or family member and or a pharmacy computer system that the patient is requesting assistance.

In some embodiments medication container may include one or more security features. For example medication container may include a fingerprint scanner touch pad for use in entering a code and or other lock mechanism. In some embodiments such mechanism s may be used to restrict access to the medication contained within medication container and or other features e.g. refill function assistance request function etc. .

In some embodiments backend system may solicit feedback from patients e.g. via text message email and or telephone calls to patients to determine reasons for non adherence and or may respond accordingly to such feedback using any suitable approach e.g. text or email acknowledgement . In some embodiments such feedback may be stored in a data record for the patient and utilized by the above described machine learning techniques to more accurately predict likelihood of patient non adherence and or to select appropriate reminders and or alerts.

Capacitance sensor s may have additional electrodes and or terminals according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. For example in some embodiments an additional terminal may be positioned on or in a bottom surface of medication container e.g. a circular conductive terminal for use in measuring capacitance. Capacitance may be measured between for example the bottom terminal and the first terminal or second terminal in any of the above described embodiments e.g. first terminal in the embodiment shown in . This may allow for increased accuracy in the measurement of the quantity of medication e.g. pills or liquid medication at the bottom of the container or when the container only includes a small number of pills. In some embodiments computer executable instructions stored in memory of medication container alter the terminal pairs between which the capacitance is measured depending on for example the quantity of medication in the container.

In some embodiments capacitance sensor s may include a terminal and electrode within medication container e.g. along all or a portion of central axis in for use in measuring capacitance. Capacitance may be measured between for example this terminal e.g. located on or in a bottom surface of medication container and the first terminal or second terminal in any of the above described embodiments e.g. first terminal in the embodiment shown in . Such an additional electrode may allow a larger portion of the medication within container to be located between electrodes and may improve accuracy of the measurement.

In some embodiments a weighing mechanism such as a scale is contained the device a b . The weighing mechanism is attached to a retractable mechanism c which rests in its retracted state. In its retracted state the area of the weighing mechanism that determines an items mass such as the scale s base plate a is below both the movable platform e and not in contact with any platform material or substance whatsoever in some embodiments. This ensures that the weighing mechanism does not experience the stress of constant weight and pressure on its components so that the weighing mechanism stays properly calibrated. The weighing mechanism establishes baseline periodically when in the retracted state so as to ensure accuracy.

When it is determined that the contents of the drug container should be measured e.g. using a cap sensor as described above the weighing mechanism rises into its protracted state as shown in . As the retractable mechanism c rises into its protracted state it lifts both the base plate a and the body of the scale b up so that the base plate a makes contact with movable platform e . The weighing mechanism c continues to rise into its fully protracted state lifting the movable platform e off of and above of the fixed platform f .

When the weighing mechanism is in its fully protracted state the movable platform e and the contents of the bottle fully rest on the weighing mechanism as shown in . The weighing mechanism a b bears the entire weight of the movable platform e and the contents of the bottle. In some embodiments the total weight of the movable platform e and the contents of the bottle are recorded and stored by the weighing mechanism a b . Such information may be stored in for example memory and or memory .

Once the device has accurately recorded the weight of the platform and the contents of the bottle the retractable mechanism c lowers itself and the weighting mechanism a b back into its retracted state. As the weighing mechanism lowers into its retracted state the movable platform e makes contact with the fixed platform f . The retractable mechanism c continues to lower itself and the weighing mechanism a b to a point where the base plate a is below the movable platform e .

When the device is in its fully retracted state as shown in the movable platform e and the contents of the bottle fully rest on the fixed platform f . The fixed platform bears the entire weight of the movable platform and the contents of the bottle. The device rests in its retracted state e . The area of the weighing mechanism that determines an items mass such as a scale s base plate a is not in contact with any platform material or substance.

Thus it is appreciated that the medication container shown in includes a platform operatively coupled to the base a measurement sensor operatively coupled to the platform the measurement sensor having a first position and a second position wherein the measurement sensor is not in contact with the platform in the first position and contacts the platform in the second position to make a measurement e.g. weight measurement wherein the measurement sensor resets to the first position after making a measurement in the second position.

In some embodiments the medication container communicates the weight measurement information to a remote computer e.g. backend system or user computer via its communication device g which may include transceiver and or processor .

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein and shown in the figures may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

In one or more example embodiments the functions methods and or applications described may be implemented in hardware software or firmware executed on a processor or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium or memory. Computer readable media include both non transitory computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can include non transitory computer readable media including RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. A computer readable medium can include a communication signal path. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium.

The system may include various blocks or modules as discussed above and shown in the figures. As can be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art each of the modules may include one or more of a variety of sub routines procedures definitional statements and macros. Each of the modules may be separately compiled and linked into a single executable program. Therefore the description of each of the modules is used for convenience to describe the functionality of the disclosed embodiments. Thus the processes that are undergone by each of the modules may be redistributed to one of the other modules combined together in a single module or made available in for example a shareable dynamic link library.

The system may be used in connection with various operating systems such as Linux UNIX or Microsoft Windows . The system may be written in any conventional programming language such as C C BASIC Pascal or Java and ran under a conventional operating system. The system may also be written using interpreted languages such as Visual Basic VB.NET Perl Python or Ruby.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the described technology. Such modifications and changes are intended to fall within the scope of the embodiments that are described. It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that features included in one embodiment are interchangeable with other embodiments and that one or more features from a depicted embodiment can be included with other depicted embodiments in any combination. For example any of the various components described herein and or depicted in the figures may be combined interchanged or excluded from other embodiments.

