---

title: OTA file upload servers
abstract: Devices and methods are disclosed which relate to gathering a plurality of data from a SIM card on a wireless communications device and recording the plurality of data onto a database where the plurality of data can be viewed at a later time. A network device requests a plurality of data from a SIM card on a wireless communications device. An OTA platform receives the request and gathers the plurality of data from the SIM card. The OTA platform, which normally sends the plurality of data back to the network device, sends the plurality of data to a file upload server instead. The file upload server records the plurality of data to a database where the plurality of data can be viewed by the network device. In certain examples, the file upload server sends a notification to the network device that the plurality of data is ready for viewing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09572013&OS=09572013&RS=09572013
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 09572013
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140714
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 336 523 filed Dec. 16 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 781 530 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to data retrieval. More specifically the present invention relates to remotely uploading data from a SIM card onto a database.

Today many cellular telephones are equipped with a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card. SIM cards are necessary for the operation of Global System for Mobile Communications GSM devices a mobile device standard used by over 3 billion people. Each SIM card stores network specific information used to authenticate and identify subscribers on a network. This information includes the Integrated Circuit Card Identification ICCID International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI Authentication Key Ki Local Area Identity LAI and Operator Specific Emergency Number. The SIM card also stores other carrier specific data such as the Short Message Service Center SMSC number Service Provider Name SPN Service Dialing Numbers SDN Advice Of Charge parameters and Value Added Service VAS applications.

Often it is necessary to manage the content of SIM cards. There are many elements on the SIM card that need to be managed which control various aspects related to network access such as the networks the card can access the priority of each network how often they should scan for roaming partners etc. Unfortunately managing the content is typically a one way street when it comes to those elements on the SIM card. Service providers typically send elements or updates to these SIM card files and get some kind of response an acknowledgement that they were received on the device. Until recently service providers did not have a method to proactively query the content on the SIM cards and see what was happening on the device side. This put service providers at a disadvantage when it came to trouble shooting network access issues. The service providers knew what should be on the card and what they thought was on the card but did not know for sure what was on the card. There was no way other than to remove the SIM card from the customer s device and insert it into a SIM card reader connected to a PC and read the contents of that SIM card.

Recently service providers have somewhat gained a capability to remotely read a SIM card without removing it from the customer s device. The service provider can query the SIM card and ask for specific data elements to be returned with the data elements returned over the air OTA . This is referred to as an OTA platform. When the service provider queries the SIM card for an OTA response the data comes back to a client and the client displays the data.

Currently a browser based client supplied by an OTA platform vendor can request a remote read of the SIM card and display the response on the client screen. However there are currently many limitations to this attempted solution. First the user must not browse away from the client while the upload request is pending or the response data is lost. Since the request can take several minutes to be processed this limitation is a burden on the user. Also with this attempted solution the data is not persistent. Once the request is successfully processed and returned to the client if the user browses away from the screen the data is lost for further evaluation. The data is not stored and must be requested each time.

Existing systems cannot provide the necessary information to diagnose many wireless problems. When a device is roaming either internationally or domestically the network is not able to read the SIM card. Additionally general service issues cannot be determined by existing systems. What is needed is a platform to remotely read a SIM card which stores responses from the SIM card.

The present invention is a system for gathering a plurality of data from a SIM card on a wireless communications device and recording the plurality of data onto a database where the plurality of data can be viewed at a later time. A network device requests a plurality of data from a SIM card on a wireless communications device. An OTA platform receives the request and gathers the plurality of data from the SIM card. The OTA platform which normally sends the plurality of data back to the network device sends the plurality of data to a file upload server instead. The file upload server records the plurality of data to a database where it can be viewed by the network device. In exemplary embodiments of the present invention the file upload server sends a notification to the network device that the plurality of data is ready for viewing. In other exemplary embodiments the plurality of data can be viewed from any internet portal.

In one exemplary embodiment the present invention is a system for gathering information from a SIM card of a wireless communications device. The system includes a network device an OTA platform in communication with the network device a wireless communications device having a SIM card in communication with the OTA platform a plurality of data on the SIM card a file upload server in communication with the OTA platform and a database in communication with the file upload server. The network device sends a request for a plurality of data to the OTA platform and receives the plurality of data from the database.

In another exemplary embodiment the present invention is a method of viewing a plurality of data from a SIM card of a wireless communications device at a time later than a request for the plurality of data is sent. The method includes recording the plurality of data to a database from a file upload server and viewing the plurality of data from the database. An OTA platform encrypts the request so that the wireless communications device understands and once the OTA platform has received the plurality of data from the wireless communications device sends the plurality of data to the file upload server.

In yet another exemplary embodiment the present invention is a method of gathering information from a SIM card of a wireless communications device. The method includes sending a request for a plurality of data encrypting the request so that a wireless communications device understands the request sending the plurality of data to a file upload server and recording the plurality of data onto a database. The plurality of data can be viewed at a time later than it is recorded.

The present invention is a system for gathering a plurality of data from a SIM card on a wireless communications device and recording the plurality of data onto a database where the plurality of data can be viewed at a later time. A network device requests a plurality of data from a SIM card on a wireless communications device. An OTA platform receives the request and gathers the plurality of data from the SIM card. The OTA platform which normally sends the plurality of data back to the network device sends the plurality of data to a file upload server instead. The file upload server records the plurality of data to a database where it can be viewed by the network device. In exemplary embodiments of the present invention the file upload server sends a notification to the network device that the plurality of data is ready for viewing. In other exemplary embodiments the plurality of data can be viewed from any internet portal.

 Wireless communications device as used herein and throughout this disclosure refers to any device capable of sending or receiving waves to communicate with other devices. Examples of wireless communications devices are cellular telephones computers personal digital assistants PDAs or any other device that utilizes at least one form of wireless communication. Forms of wireless communication include cellular RF BLUETOOTH WIFI etc.

 Network device as used herein and throughout this disclosure refers to any device capable of digital communication across a network. Examples of a network device include a personal computer a cellular telephone a PDA etc.

For the following description it can be assumed that most correspondingly labeled structures across the figures e.g. and etc. possess the same characteristics and are subject to the same structure and function. If there is a difference between correspondingly labeled elements that is not pointed out and this difference results in a non corresponding structure or function of an element for a particular embodiment then that conflicting description given for that particular embodiment shall govern.

Instead of transient data being stored in a browser on a network device the command to read a plurality of data from a SIM card of a wireless communications device is sent to a file upload server. The file upload server receives the plurality of data records the plurality of data into a database and then notifies the requestor when the plurality of data is stored. The requestor can go in and view the plurality of data at their convenience because the plurality of data is stored persistently.

This solution utilizes a file upload server that receives the plurality of data asynchronously and records the plurality of data into a database. This is an improvement in two areas. First the requestor s network device is not tied up while waiting for the plurality of data to be received. The requestor can browse to other sites or continue with other tasks without fear of the plurality of data being lost. Second the data is stored persistently in a database for subsequent retrieval and analysis.

In other exemplary embodiments of the system the network device may be a computer a PDA etc. The wireless communications device can be a cellular telephone a PDA or any other device capable of wireless communication. The SIM card is a common form of memory storage for cellular telephones especially on a GSM or UMTS standard. A SIM card stores network specific information used to authenticate and identify subscribers on a network. This information includes the Integrated Circuit Card Identification ICCID International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI Authentication Key Ki Local Area Identity LAI and Operator Specific Emergency Number. The SIM card is a removable memory but exemplary embodiments do not require the memory to be removable. Many other wireless communications devices having internal memory are within the scope of the present invention. The network device may use a web browser to send the request .

The OTA platform is responsible for formatting and encrypting the request to the wireless communications device . The OTA platform manages the content communication for the SIM card which is a secure process that requires a specific key. Each SIM card has a set of keys. The OTA platform receives the request from the network device formats the request and encrypts the request so that the wireless communications device understands the request . The wireless communications device then receives the request reads the plurality of data requested and sends the plurality of data back to the OTA platform . Then the OTA platform sends the plurality of data back through an API call to the file upload server . The file upload server can be a basic PHP process that receives the plurality of data decodes the plurality of data and records the plurality of data into a database .

The wireless communications device communicates with the OTA platform over a wireless network. The other components communicate with each other on a wired or wireless network. The network can be a closed network or a wide area network such as the INTERNET. Regardless of the network type the process of requesting and receiving the plurality of data is generally the same.

Although it uses a web browser the network device does not necessarily require an INTERNET connection but a network connection wired or wireless to the OTA platform and the file upload server . SIM cards such as the SIM card as a form of memory on a wireless communications device have levels of encryption to avoid unwanted access over its wireless connection. However other forms of memory may exist on wireless communications devices such as the wireless communication device that do not have the need for encryption. These and other forms of memory are readily recognizable to one skilled in the art and are within the scope of the present invention. In other exemplary embodiments of the present invention the file upload server sends a notice to the network device notifying the requestor once the plurality of data has been recorded to the database .

The request for a plurality of data is submitted to the OTA platform via a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP API service. It is in this respect that the API to the OTA platform is based on SOAP. Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP is the transport in this method. However other transfer protocols may be used and are readily known to one of ordinary skill in the art. The OTA platform handles the request and returns the plurality of data to a designated Uniform Resource Locator URL submitted in the request . The URL is the address of a server which will receive the request and write the response to a database such as the database . At this URL is a file upload server utilizing a PHP process that parses the plurality of data and records the plurality of data into a database .

Because the request is submitted to the API and the plurality of data is handled asynchronously the user is free to pursue other tasks with the web browser without opening multiple instances. Each instance consumes resources on the network device and the OTA platform . This approach also reduces the risk of potential browser refresh issues that may cause the plurality of data to be lost or to require re submittal of the request . Also since the request is submitted to the API directly and by passes the network device the network device is freed up for other tasks or not even required at all. The solution also allows for the user to historically view the plurality of data in a database after the request has been processed. This is valuable in troubleshooting or testing scenarios where multiple requests are submitted. The user can always view the information such as the plurality of data from the database without recording the information using other methods which are open for error.

In a further exemplary embodiment the file upload server makes a duplicate request for a plurality of data from a SIM card of a wireless communications device at a later time. The file upload server sends the request to an OTA platform via a SOAP API service. The OTA platform handles the request and returns the plurality of data to a designated URL submitted in the original request. At this URL is the file upload server utilizing a PHP process that parses the plurality of data and records the plurality of data into a database . In this embodiment the requester can view the plurality of data at a time later than the original request and also view the plurality of data from the duplicate request. No matter when the requester views the plurality of data the requestor knows the plurality of data is recent.

Whether the requester utilizes a web browser or another application built with the API a request for a plurality of data requires similar elements. These elements include some identifying number or code specific to the wireless communications device and a return URL to which the OTA platform sends the plurality of data once the plurality of data has been received from the wireless communications device .

There are many other unique identifiers of wireless communications devices which are readily recognizable by one skilled in the art. In other exemplary embodiments any of these unique identifiers can be used as well. The data and types of data that can be read from a SIM card of a wireless communications device are virtually limitless and can be requested from the SIM card in the same manner. These types of data include a network roaming list an applet an SMS message etc. In exemplary embodiments where duplicate requests are to be made from the file upload server an entry field with a time and count are included in a request.

Once the request is forwarded to the wireless communications device from the OTA platform the plurality of data is returned. The plurality of data takes different forms as it travels to the database. The OTA platform must decrypt the plurality of data before sending it to the file upload server. Once the file upload server records the plurality of data to the database the network device is ready to view the plurality of data. The plurality of data though decrypted is not always usable before being applied to a formula or program. In some embodiments the requestor is shown a selection screen where the plurality of data can be saved for processing or viewing.

On other exemplary embodiments the plurality of data can be viewed before making a selection of which data to view. When viewed in this manner the data can be saved directly from the screen of the network device. For embodiments where the file upload server makes duplicate requests the results screen contains a refresh button. Upon pressing or selecting the refresh button the network device checks the database for more recent results than what is displayed.

In another exemplary embodiment the network device does not view the plurality of data directly from the database but communicates with the file upload server before gaining access to the database. Access to the plurality of data may be more secure in this manner. The database does not require the complexity in this embodiment and can be nothing more than simply a hard drive onboard the file upload server.

Network device may be a cellular telephone a PDA or any device capable of wireless communication. In other exemplary embodiments the file upload server notifies the network device of the availability of the plurality of data recorded into the database .

The foregoing disclosure of the exemplary embodiments of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many variations and modifications of the embodiments described herein will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the above disclosure. The scope of the invention is to be defined only by the claims appended hereto and by their equivalents.

Further in describing representative embodiments of the present invention the specification may have presented the method and or process of the present invention as a particular sequence of steps. However to the extent that the method or process does not rely on the particular order of steps set forth herein the method or process should not be limited to the particular sequence of steps described. As one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate other sequences of steps may be possible. Therefore the particular order of the steps set forth in the specification should not be construed as limitations on the claims. In addition the claims directed to the method and or process of the present invention should not be limited to the performance of their steps in the order written and one skilled in the art can readily appreciate that the sequences may be varied and still remain within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

