---

title: Cloud services for wearable and snappable devices
abstract: Wearable and snappable sensing devices may act to sense data associated with an environment of the user. A mobile device and the wearable/snappable device may together operate to provide an application for sensing environmental data associated with the user, analyzing the environmental data, and providing reports to the user. In one implementation, a mobile device may connect to an external sensing device; receiving, from the sensing device, environmental data sensed by the sensing device; provide, over a wide area network, a classification query to a remote classification service, the classification query being based on the sensed data; receive, from the classification server, classification results in response to the classification query; and provide, via a graphical display of the mobile computing device, a report based on the classification results.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09252980&OS=09252980&RS=09252980
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09252980
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140106
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 902 622 titled CLOUD SERVICES FOR WEARABLE AND SNAPPABLE DEVICES which was filed on Nov. 11 2013 and which is hereby incorporated by reference as though fully set forth herein.

In an increasingly networked world more and more traffic such as data voice and video traffic is transmitted over public and proprietary networks. Wireless networks in particular are popular as networks through which subscribers obtain both voice services e.g. telephone calls and data services e.g. email and web surfing . Wireless networks such as cellular wireless networks can provide network coverage over large geographic areas e.g. nationwide coverage . Smartphones may commonly be used to access the wireless networks.

Smartphones in addition to including a radio interface designed to interact with a wireless network such as a cellular wireless network may include other interfaces such as pluggable interfaces e.g. a universal serial bus USB interface or additional radio interfaces such as radio interfaces designed to transmit data over short distances e.g. a Bluetooth interface . The additional interfaces of a smartphone may be used to connect the smartphone to external devices such as external input or sensing devices.

One class of external devices may include snappable and wearable devices. A snappable device may include a device that is designed to be directly attached to a smartphone such as by snapping the device into a USB interface of the smartphone. Similarly a wearable device may be one that is designed to be worn by a user of the smartphone such as an article of clothing or jewelry and that may communicate with the smartphone using a short range radio interface e.g. a Bluetooth interface . Wearable and snappable devices will be generically referred to herein as X able devices.

X able devices may include sensors that measure information relating to the user of the smartphone or to an environment associated with the user of the smartphone. The smartphones may provide an application designed to communicate with the x able device and provide a graphical interface for presenting sensed information and or controlling the x able device.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Techniques described herein may relate to the use of x able devices with a cloud based classification service. X able devices may be purchased or otherwise acquired by a user and may sense data associated with an environment of the user. The x able devices may pair with a mobile communication device e.g. a smartphone of the user. The mobile device and the x able device may together operate to provide an application for sensing environmental data associated with the user analyzing the environmental data and providing reports to the user. The analysis of the environmental data may be based on classification of the environmental data and potentially other data such as user data that is performed by a remotely located classification server. The classification server may provide classification services based on classification models that may be generated by the classification server. In some implementations the reports may include links to initiate live support e.g. a telephone call or chat session with a representative to discuss the reports.

The heat map data collected by the micro bolometer may be used to generate a classification request that is transmitted by the mobile device and over a network to a classification service. The classification request may include in addition to the heat map data other data such as additional environmental data e.g. an indoor and outdoor temperature data relating to an age or make model of the windows and doors in the room or other data may be helpful in providing a classification result relating to the quality of the insulation provided by the windows and or doors in the room. The classification service may receive the classification request and apply one or more classification models to determine a classification result corresponding to the heat map data and or the other data . The classification result may indicate for example an insulation level of a particular door or window whether a particular door or window needs to be repaired or has leaks etc.

The classification result may be used by an application associated with the mobile device that provides the user with a report relating to data sensed by the x able device. For example as illustrated a report insulation report may be provided via a graphical display of the mobile device. In this example the report includes an image of the scanned room e.g. an image taken with a camera of the mobile device in which windows and or doors in the room may have been automatically identified and an associated with a thermal insulation level. As illustrated a door in the room labeled in the report as 1 may be determined to have moderate insulation leakage. The report may provide the user with an option to speak to a door specialist. The option may be indicated via a link indicated by the word speak being underlined that when selected may place a call to a representative that may assist the user in purchasing a new door and or scheduling a visit by a qualified repairperson. In some implementations selection of the link may provide the user with an option to speak with the representative or initiate a textual chat with the representative. As is further illustrated in the report may also provide information relating to a window in the room labeled in the report as 2 . The window may have been automatically identified and determined to have low level of insulation i.e. the window is poorly insulated . In this example a recommendation is provided to install window insulation film. A link indicated by the word film being underlined to purchase window insulation film and or provide additional information relating to the installation of the window installation film may be provided to the user.

Mobile device may include a portable mobile communication device that is capable of connecting to network . Mobile device may include a smartphone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer or another type of computation and communication device. Mobile device may include a radio interface designed to connect to network . The radio interface may include a cellular wireless interface. Mobile device may also include additional interfaces to connect to additional devices such as x able devices . The additional interfaces may include a short range radio interface e.g. Bluetooth a WiFi interface and or a wired interface e.g. a USB interface .

X able application may be designed to function with one or more of x able devices . X able application may be a user installed or third party installed application such as an application that is installed at mobile device when a user initially connects mobile device to an x able device . X able application may generally be used to control x able device and or provide an interface in which data collected by x able devices may be provided to user . X able application may also act as a communication link between x able devices and services provided through network . In some implementations each x able application developed by an x able device distributor may be independently developed by the x able device distributor potentially using an application programming interface API that is provided by an operator of classification server and or contextual support component . Alternatively or additionally an operator of classification server and or contextual support component may provide a template x able application that may be customized by an x able device distributor . X able application will be described in more detail below.

X able devices may include snappable and or wearable devices that each include one or more sensors to sense environmental data. Data sensed by x able devices may be transmitted to mobile device . Non limiting examples of x able devices include a micro bolometer device infrared image and heat capture a microscopy device object image capture a multi sensing gas device carbon monoxide methane propane natural gas etc. a humidity sensor device a pressure sensing device a three dimensional vision device 3D image capture a brain wearable device electrocardiogram a body monitor device blood pressure heart rate etc. or combinations thereof.

Network may include one or more networks that provide wireless network connectivity to mobile device . For example network may represent a wireless network that provides cellular wireless coverage. In some implementations network may be associated with an evolved packet system EPS that includes a Long Term Evolution LTE network and or an evolved packet core EPC network that operate based on a Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP wireless communication standard. A radio access network RAN associated with wireless network may include one or more base stations some or all of which may take the form of an evolved node B eNB .

X able device distributor may represent the manufacturer of an x able device a distributor of an x able device or another entity that markets develops and or sells x able devices or software services related to x able devices to end users e.g. user . X able device distributor may develop or publish an x able application for use with a particular one or more x able devices . X able application may use classification services provided by classification server . For example x able device distributor may upload initial training data corresponding to data sensed by x able devices to application server . Classification server may perform machine classification operations such as machine classification based on unsupervised learning techniques to classify the sensed data as belonging to one or more categories.

Classification server may include one or more computing devices that provide classification services to x able applications . Although referred to as a server classification server may include may include a single computing device clusters of computing devices e.g. blades or rack mounted server computers that are co located or geographically distributed cloud based e.g. computing as a service computing solutions or other arrangements of computing devices.

Classification server may receive classification training data such as classification training data uploaded by x able device distributor . Classification server may implement machine learning techniques to generate classification models that are trained based on the classification training data. The classification models may be used to output classification categories classification results that are transmitted to x able application . Classification queries may be based on data sensed by x able devices . In one implementation classification server may implement unsupervised classification techniques. In some implementations x able device distributor may define a transform flow describing how data received from a particular x able application is to be processed or pre processed before being used as an input to a classification model. Classification models generated by classification server may be updated as additional classification data is received from users during the operation of x able application .

Contextual support component may represent a grouping of human operators to provide live human assistance or guidance to users of x able application . For example contextual support component may represent a call center or texting center in which one or more human operators work. As another example contextual support component may include one or more computing devices to receive requests for textual support from x able application and to transfer the support session to an operator associated with x able device distributor . X able application may request contextual support from contextual support component based on x able application entering a particular state such as a state triggered by a classification query to classification server . In this situation x able application may present user with a dialog giving the user an option to chat either via a textual or voice interface with an operator.

Process may include receiving initial classification training data from the x able device distributor block . The initial classification data may include a number of labeled classification records where each classification record may include a number of values e.g. data sensed by x able devices user specific information or other information . The initial classification training data may be generated by x able device distributor as data that x able device distributor believes will be similar to actual classification data that is generated by x able application .

In some implementations each record of the initial classification training data may additionally be associated with a classification result value. For example the classification record labeled window may include an indication of whether the measurements relating to a window indicate that the window is well insulated moderately insulated or poorly insulated.

Referring back to process may further include performing machine learning techniques to generate initial classification models based on the received initial classification training data block . In an implementation corresponding to the example training data of a separate classification model may be generated for each differently labeled record. As previously mentioned the classification models may be generated using a number of potential supervised or unsupervised model generation techniques. In some implementations classification server may use different types of classification models e.g. linear support vector classification neural net based classification etc. 

Process may further include receiving runtime classification data from x able applications block . The runtime classification data may be data corresponding to sensed data from x able devices and potentially after processing and or augmenting by the corresponding x able application . For example x able application may receive data from a number of x able devices and aggregate the data to form a classification record. The classification record may be transmitted to classification server as a classification query.

Process may further include generating classification results based on the runtime classification data block . The generated classification results e.g. a classification class may be returned to the x able application that transmitted the runtime classification data. In some implementations classification server based on the received runtime classification data may occasionally or periodically update the classification models. In this manner the classification models maintained by classification server may be updated to take advantage of new user data.

X able device interface may include logic to provide an interface to x able devices . X able device interface may for example be configured based on the specific x able devices for which x able application is compatible. X able device interface may generally handle communications with x able devices .

Classification server interface may handle communications with classification server . Classification server interface may for example handle transmitting classification queries to classification server and receiving responses to the queries.

Live support context interface may handle communications with contextual support component . In one implementation live support sessions e.g. voice or text chat may be implemented using voice over LTE VoLTE services in network . Live support context interface may establish and teardown the live support sessions.

User interface may operate to handle the presentation of a graphical interface to user . User interface may provide for example instructions to the user on the operation of a particular x able device the ability to control functionality of x able device e.g. for a micro bolometer control when the micro bolometer is actively sensing and provide feedback and or display the data sensed by x able device .

Core logic may include functionality relating to the overall control and operation of x able application . Core logic may control the interaction of x able device interface classification server interface live support context interface and user interface .

Process may include connecting with an x able device block . In some implementations as part of the initial connection to an x able device x able application may identify the x able device and based on the identification of the x able device may download or update x able application to include functionality corresponding to the identified x able device e.g. functionality implemented by the corresponding x able device distributor . As previously mentioned the connection to the x able device may be performed via a short range radio interface e.g. Bluetooth or a physical cable connection e.g. USB .

Process may further include receiving data from the x able device block . The data may include data sensed by x able device . In one implementation x able application may instruct the user on how to control x able device to obtain useful sensed data. For instance an example of a home monitoring and or inspection application in which x able device includes a snappable micro bolometer x able application may instruct the user to point the sensor of x able device at various structures in the user s home such as a window a door etc. The user may indicate at which structure x able device is pointed and may then initiate recording of the sensed data. In conjunction with the data sensed by x able device x able application may control mobile device to simultaneously acquire additional data. For example a camera of the mobile device may be used to take a picture of the window that is being examined by the micro bolometer. Both the picture taken by mobile device and an infrared image taken by x able device may be used as part of subsequent analysis and or classification that may be implemented as part of the operation of the home monitoring inspection application.

Process may further include based on the data received from the x able device transmitting classification queries to the classification server block . Classification server as previously mentioned may provide classification services relating to the operation of x able devices . The classification queries may include requests to determine classification categories relating to the operation of x able application . For example in the context of a home monitoring inspection application the classification queries may quantify the amount a particular structure in the user s home is insulated e.g. a door may be determined to be well insulated moderately insulated poorly insulated . Based on results of the classification queries x able application may provide a report and or make recommendations to user .

Process may further include offering contextual assistance from a live operator block . The contextual assistance may be based on user input and or results of the classification queries block . For example in the context of the home monitoring inspection application based on a classification query that indicates that a window in the user s home is poorly insulated x able application may provide a dialogue to the user asking whether the user would like to speak to a live operator that is an expert in window repair and replacement. If the user chooses to speak to the live operator x able application may enable such as via VoLTE services a voice call with the live operator and may potentially supplement the voice call with the data obtained by x able application e.g. an infrared image of the window and pictures of the window .

In the context of assume that x able device distributor develops x able application such as an application designed to execute on mobile device in conjunction with a snappable x able device e.g. a micro bolometer device a multi sensing gas device a humidity sensor device etc. . X able device distributor may develop the application using services provided by classification server . For example classification server may provide an x able device partner interface XDPI such as a web interface and or an application programming interface API through which x able device distributor may configure classification services for a particular x able device . In one implementation configuring the classification services for x able device may include specifying transformations such as affine transformations that may be applied to data sensed by x able device . For example x able device distributor may specify that data received from x able device is shifted by particular amount and or scaled by a particular amount. For example the average for an input set of data may be subtracted from the mean of all the values in the input set i.e. shifted to obtain a zero mean vector and divided e.g. scaled by the variance of the values of the input set. In some implementations and as previously mentioned x able device distributor may also upload initial training data such as data corresponding to data sensed by x able devices . Classification server may perform machine classification operations such as machine classification based on unsupervised learning techniques to classify the sensed data as belonging to one or more categories.

In some implementations in addition to specifying transformations configuring the classification services for x able device may include specifying other parameters relating to x able device . For example x able device distributor may specify how bandwidth used for x able device is to be billed e.g. by specifying a billing plan specify whether users to directly billed etc. and or specifying how classification results are to be treated e.g. by specifying a format for the classification results and or a destination to which the classification results are to be transmitted .

As illustrated in x able device distributor may transmit the x able device configuration information arrow 1 to classification server . As mentioned above the configuration information may include transformation information or other information relating to the initial setup of classification services for x able device . In this manner as part of development of x able application for a particular x able device x able device distributor may initially configure classification server to operate with the x able device .

At some point user may wish to use an x able device in conjunction with mobile device e.g. as a snappable device . As part of the initial registration or pairing of x able device with mobile device an x able application associated with x able device may be deployed e.g. installed at mobile device arrow 2 . Although the installation of the application is illustrated in as being received from x able device distributor in some implementations x able application may be transmitted to the mobile device from another location or server such as from an application installation platform corresponding to the operating system that is used by mobile device . Deployment of x able application may include pairing e.g. over a short range wireless connection and or wired connection of the application with x able device .

In some implementations user may register x able device with personal cloud and or classification server arrow 3 . Registering x able device with personal cloud may for instance initialize storage space at personal cloud for data sensed by x able device . Registering x able device with classification server may include identifying x able device and or user as a device user that will use classification server in the future.

In some implementations instead of or in addition to mobile device directly registering x able device and personal cloud classification server in response to registration of x able device may register x able device with personal cloud . Registering x able device may for example trigger the provisioning of storage space at personal cloud . In one implementation data sensed by x able device may be transmitted to personal cloud for storage. Storing the sensed data may trigger the classification services provided by classification server .

During operation of x able device by user x able application may obtain from x able device data e.g. data sensed by the x able device and transmit the data to personal cloud arrow 4 . For example in the context of x able device being a micro bolometer data quantifying the amount of sensed infrared light along with other data e.g. meta data describing conditions relating to the operation of x able device such as a location of x able device an image taken by mobile device during operation of x able device and or data identifying user may be transmitted to personal cloud .

The reception of the data in personal cloud may cause classification queries relating to the sensed data to be issued to classification server arrow 5 . Results corresponding to the classification queries may be received by personal cloud and transmitted to mobile device arrow 6 . In some implementations classification requests may be transmitted directly from mobile device to classification server . Additionally in some implementations classification results may be transmitted directly from personal cloud to contextual support component .

In some implementations the classification results may be used by x able application to provide a report to user . The report may include classification results and or information relating to the interpretation of the classification results. For example as previously mentioned in the context of an application designed to apprise users of the quality of insulation at a user residence the report may include an indication of insulation associated with the doors and windows of the user s residence. For some x able applications x able device distributors may have enabled contextual support to connect user with a live operator. In this situation based on the report x able application may provide user an option to initiate a text or voice session with a support representative arrow 7 . The text voice session may be implemented as for example a VoLTE based communication session.

In the discussion of personal cloud was described as storing data. In other possible implementations data may be stored locally at mobile device and classification queries may be directly transmitted to classification server .

In some implementations as previously mentioned classification server may perform classification based on unsupervised machine learning. Unsupervised machine learning may generally refer to machine learning in which one or types of classification models are automatically determined and or automatically trained.

Components may include classification component clustering component regression component and dimensionality reduction component . Classification component may represent one or more logical operations that relate to classification of input sets of data. The operation of classification component may be based on classification models including for example linear support vector machines SVMs or support vector classifiers SVCs k nearest neighbor techniques na ve Bayes techniques SVC ensemble classifiers stochastic gradient descent SGD classifiers kernel approximation neural network classification or other techniques. As previously mentioned the type s of classification models to use for a particular data set that is uploaded by x able device distributor may be automatically determined by classification component . Classification component may generally determine a classification category to which an input set of data belongs. Input data sets may first be processed by one or more of clustering component regression component and dimensionality reduction component in order improve the classification success rate.

Clustering component may operate to perform automatic grouping of similar sets of data. The operation of clustering component may be based on for example mean shift variational inference for Gaussian mixture model VBGMM techniques mini batch k means techniques spectral clustering Gaussian mixture model GMM techniques or other techniques.

Regression component may operate to perform automated regression analysis to estimate relationships between variables in a data set. The operation of regression component may be based on for example SGD regression lasso and elastic net regression support vector regression SVR or other techniques.

Dimensionality reduction component may operate to reduce the number of variables in an input set. The operation of regression component may be based on for example principal component analysis PCA randomized PCA kernal approximation isomap spectral embedding or other techniques.

In operation classification server may determine model types and model parameter values based on initial classification training data that is received from x able device distributor . The determination of the model types and model parameter values may be made using functionality corresponding to components .

Bus may include one or more communication paths that permit communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a switch etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface a radio interface or the like. Communication interface may include a wireless communication device such as an infrared IR receiver a Bluetooth radio a Wi Fi radio a cellular radio or the like. The wireless communication device may be coupled to an external device such as a remote control a wireless keyboard a mobile telephone etc. In some embodiments device may include more than one communication interface . For instance device may include an optical interface and an Ethernet interface.

Device may perform certain operations relating to one or more processes described above. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions stored in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software. In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

For example while series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that example aspects as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these aspects should not be construed as limiting. Thus the operation and behavior of the aspects were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware could be designed to implement the aspects based on the description herein.

Further certain portions of the invention may be implemented as logic that performs one or more functions. This logic may include hardware such as an ASIC application specific integrated circuit or a FPGA field programmable gate array or a combination of hardware and software.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the invention. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

