---

title: Method for secure key injection with biometric sensors
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for securely injecting one or more key values into an electronic device by reading with a fingerprint sensor a manufactured key device having a key value. A secure communication channel between a fingerprint sensor and a secure processing system enables the reading, processing, and storing of the fingerprint sensor data from the key device. The key device includes a conductive substantially planar substrate (“substrate”) with raised conductive portions configured to encode a key value. The substrate can be made from a non-conductive material and have conductive material applied to the substrate to encode the key value. The substrate can be covered with an opaque, conductive layer so that the encoding cannot be visually perceived. The encoding scheme can be a QR code, a bar code, an image, an alphanumeric string, or other encoding. One or more electronic device access policies can be associated with a key value to control how an electronic device can be used when the electronic device is accessed with the manufactured key device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09455985&OS=09455985&RS=09455985
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09455985
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140930
---
Computing devices cell phones and other electronic devices can store personal private and valuable information that a user of the device would like to keep secure. Current methods of securing access to the operation and contents of an electronic device include the user entering a personal identification number PIN the user entering a password the user making a particular gesture upon a touch screen such as a swipe motion and a user pressing a fingertip into a fingerprint sensor. PINs and passwords collectively access keys require that the user remember the access key and enter the access key to access the electronic device. It is well known that a longer and more random access key offers better security than a shorter or more easily guessed access key. However long and random access keys are hard to remember and inconvenient to enter. Further it is more likely that a user will make an error entering a long access key than a shorter one thus requiring that the user re enter the access key. Biometric sensors such as fingerprint sensors have been used to overcome some of the problems associated with using a long access key to secure an electronic device. However fingerprint scanning is not deterministic as is a manually entered access key. A fingerprint sensor scans a fingerprint and generates a sensor signal representing the fingerprint. The sensor signal is subjected to signal processing techniques including removal of signal artifacts in the sensor signal normalization of the sensor signal extracting of a set of features from the sensor signal that represent the fingerprint and creating and storing a template of features to represent the fingerprint. Thus the signal processing of a scanned fingerprint results in an approximation of the fingerprint signal data not in an exact fingerprint image. A fingerprint scanning system must determine whether a scanned fingerprint sufficiently matches the stored approximation of the fingerprint signal data to permit access to the functionality and data of the electronic device. In addition since the stored template of features are an approximation of the fingerprint of the user a fingerprint system may have false acceptances of a fingerprint that is not the user s and may also have false rejections of a fingerprint that is the fingerprint of the user. Further a human finger may leave a detectable image of the user s fingerprint on the fingerprint sensor or other objects. The detectable image can be recovered and used by another to gain unauthorized access the user s electronic device. A fingerprint or other biometric identification scheme also limits the utility of the electronic device by requiring the physical presence of the authorized user of the electronic device to provide the biometric information required to access the electronic device. For example a user of an electronic device would not be able to lend her electronic device temporarily to a person whom the user trusts because access to the electronic device is limited by the user s biometric identification requiring the presence of the user to access the electronic device. Alternatively the user would have to give her PIN or password to the person to whom she lends the electronic device so that the person could access and utilize the electronic device. But giving the person borrowing the electronic device the user s PIN or password would then give full access to the functionality and data of the electronic device to the person borrowing the electronic device causing a privacy and security risk to the owner of the electronic device.

Embodiments are described for securely injecting one or more key values into one or more electronic devices and for registering the one or more key values with a user account. An electronic device can include a fingerprint sensor that is securely communicatively coupled to a secure processing system that can receive fingerprint sensor data from the fingerprint sensor. A key value can be encoded on manufactured key device that can be securely read by the fingerprint sensor processed by the secure processing system and stored in a secured storage. Once stored the one or more key values can be used for securely communicating between electronic devices and between electronic devices and one or more online user accounts. The one or more key values can further be used for user authentication and access control to the electronic device and for controlling the functionality of the device by associating one or more device utilizing policies with a key value.

In an embodiment a manufactured key device or key device can encode a key value. In an embodiment a manufactured key device can encode a plurality of key values. The encoding can include a Quick Response QR code a bar code a numeric code an alphabetic code an alphanumeric code a graphical image a proprietary code or a combination of these. The key value can be encoded on a substantially planar conductive surface that can be scanned by a biometric sensor such as a fingerprint sensor on an electronic device. The key value can be etched into the conductive layer or built up from application of a conductive material e.g. a conductive ink or a combination of etching and building up of a conductive material. The key device can be configured to be received by the fingerprint sensor. A portion of the key device can be configured to contact a conductive area on the fingerprint sensor to trigger scanning of the key device by the fingerprint sensor. In an embodiment the key device can have an opaque conductive layer or non conductive layer over the substantially planar surface such that the encoded key value cannot be optically perceived or photographed but the key value can still be scanned by the fingerprint sensor. The opaque conductive layer may have a non conductive grid pattern within the conductive layer to preserve the electrical image of the key value encoding information as it passes through the opaque conductive layer to the fingerprint sensor. A key device can be affixed to a physical object for convenience in handling for aesthetic purposes e.g. on a charm bracelet ring or necklace or for easy access or storage such as on a key chain. A key device can have a notch tab or other physical orientation feature for use in orienting the key device with the fingerprint sensor. Alternatively or in addition the key device may contain an orientation information on the key device such as a QR code so that the user does not need to manually orient the key device relative to the fingerprint sensor. In an embodiment the orientation information may be in an encoded form.

In another embodiment a method of reading a key value encoded on a manufactured key device can include initially gaining secure access to an electronic device and setting the electronic device into a mode for reading the key device. A user can be prompted to place the key device on the fingerprint sensor. Alternatively after a user has securely accessed the electronic device the electronic device can be configured to automatically enter a mode for reading the key device when the key device is placed on the fingerprint sensor. A conductive area on the fingerprint sensor can be configured to detect the presence of the key device at the fingerprint sensor. The key device can then be scanned by the fingerprint sensor producing fingerprint sensor data. The method can determine whether the fingerprint sensor data indicates the presence of a fingerprint or indicates the presence of a manufactured key device. If the fingerprint sensor data indicates the presence of a human finger not a manufactured key device then the fingerprint sensor data can be filtered or processed by known signal processing techniques used to generate a template for a fingerprint. If the fingerprint sensor data indicates that a key device not a human finger has been placed upon the fingerprint sensor then a secure processing system can determine a type of the key device such as a bar code a QR code an alphanumeric code a graphical image or other encoding. The fingerprint sensor data may be processed using signal processing that is specific to the type of the key device. The secure processor can determine a cryptographic key from the fingerprint sensor data and store a key value determined from the fingerprint sensor data. In an embodiment the key value can be used as a cryptographic key. In an embodiment a cryptographic key can be determined from the key value. A user can similarly inject the key value into other electronic devices of the user.

In yet another embodiment after a key value has been securely injected into an electronic device the key value can be associated with an electronic device access and control policy. For example a user may want to lend her phone or other electronic device to a friend but does not want the friend to make purchases with the phone and does not want the friend to view her private information such as contacts emails texts voicemails and user account information that may be stored on the phone. The user may simply want to be able to temporarily grant her friend the ability to send and receive a few texts use a map application and make a limited number of local phone calls. The user can configure a device access policy to control access to data applications and functionality of her phone and associate the policy with a key value of a manufacture key device. After associating the policy with a key value that can be obtained from the key device the user can lend her friend the phone and the key device having the key value. The friend places the key device on the fingerprint sensor to access the phone in accordance with the policy set by the user for her friend s temporary use of the phone.

In yet another embodiment a user can register a key value with a user account or a plurality of user accounts. The user account controls access to services available through the user account. The user can securely inject the key value into the electronic device as described above. Then the user can log onto the user account and follows a procedure for registering the key value with the user account service. The user can then associate a service access policy with the key value. For example the user account may have access to services such as media services cloud storage an application store online purchasing a backup and restore service or a device synchronization service. A user who is a parent of a family having multiple electronic devices may want to register a particular key value with the user account. The key value can be injected into each of the multiple electronic devices. The parent may then associate a policy with the key value that controls which services may be accessed and may impose limits on access by each electronic device having the key value. For example the parent user may authorize limited purchases of food and transportation per day. The parent user may also limit purchases of non food items to a certain dollar value per purchase per day or both. The parent user may also want to limit access to software updates or backup and restore services so that only the parent user utilizes those services via the user account.

In another embodiment multiple electronic devices each having learned a key value can securely communicate with each other by using the key value as a cryptographic key. Secure communications can include encrypted phone call cell packets encrypted email and text messages and encrypted data transmissions. The multiple devices can also each securely access services via a user account that has the key value registered with the user account.

In still another embodiment a user securely provision a new second electronic device from an old first electronic device by securely injecting a key value into the old electronic device and injecting the key value into the new electronic device. The two devices can then establish as secure communication channel using the key value as a cryptographic key. Applications settings and data of the old electronic device can be used to provision the new electronic device via the secure communications channel. If the user also registers the key value with a user account that includes a backup and restore service then the old and new electronic devices can establish a secure communication channel with the user account and provision the new electronic device from the old electronic device via the secure communication channel and the backup and restore service.

Some embodiments include one or more application programming interfaces APIs in an environment with calling program code interacting with other program code being called through the one or more interfaces. Various function calls messages or other types of invocations which further may include various kinds of parameters can be transferred via the APIs between the calling program and the code being called. In addition an API may provide the calling program code the ability to use data types or classes defined in the API and implemented in the called program code.

At least certain embodiments include an environment with a calling software component interacting with a called software component through an API. A method for operating through an API in this environment includes transferring one or more function calls messages other types of invocations or parameters via the API.

Other features and advantages will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description.

In the following detailed description of embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar elements and in which is shown by way of illustration manners in which specific embodiments may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical mechanical electrical functional and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Embodiments are described for securely injecting a key value into an electronic device to access the device and to establish secure communications with devices and services that have learned the key value. Once learned the key may be associated with one or more access policies on the electronic device and one more access policies associated with the key value and a user account that is used to access services.

The electronic device includes a secure enclave and other processing components. The secure enclave indicated by a dashed line can include a fingerprint sensor a secure processing system a secure memory and a secure storage . The elements within the secure enclave can be each securely communicatively coupled to a secure bus . Fingerprint sensor can alternatively or in addition be securely communicatively coupled to secure processing system . Fingerprint sensor can incorporate conductive ring or conductive ring can be communicatively coupled to fingerprint sensor . In an embodiment conductive ring can be coupled to secure bus . Alternatively conductive ring can be coupled to bus . Conductive ring can detect that a human finger or a manufactured key device has contacted the conductive ring . Detecting a human finger or a manufactured key device contacting the conductive ring can be used to trigger scanning of fingerprint sensor and generating of fingerprint sensor data. The fingerprint sensor data may be read directly into the secure processing system or the sensor data may be stored in secure memory and accessed by secure processing system via secure bus . Fingerprint sensor can include encryption logic. Fingerprint sensor and secure processing system can have a shared cryptographic key in common that is used to encrypt fingerprint sensor data from the fingerprint sensor to the secure processing system . Secure processing system can process the fingerprint sensor data to determine whether the sensor data represents a human fingerprint or a manufactured key device. In an embodiment fingerprint sensor can determine whether the sensor data represents a human finger or a manufactured key device. Secure processing system can further process sensor data by filtering the sensor data and applying signal processing techniques to determine a fingerprint template when the secure processing system determines that the sensor data represents a fingerprint. Secure processing system can further determine a key value from the sensor data when the secure processing system determines that the sensor data represents a manufactured key device. After processing the sensor data secure processing system can store any or all of a fingerprint template generated from the sensor data a key value of a manufactured key device determined from the sensor data or a cryptographic key generated from the value in the secure storage . Secure processing system is further communicatively coupled to bus . Other than the processing system components and subsystems that are coupled to bus cannot access components and subsystems within the secure enclave .

Electronic device further includes bus or other communication device to communicate information and processor s coupled to bus that may process information.

While electronic device is illustrated with a single processor electronic device may include multiple processors and or co processors . In an embodiment secure processing system can be a co processor to processor s or a secure core of processor s .

Electronic device further may include random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device referred to as main memory coupled to bus and may store information and instructions that may be executed by processor s . Main memory may also be used to store temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by processor s .

Electronic device may also include read only memory ROM and or other static storage device coupled to bus that may store static information and instructions for processor s . Data storage device may be coupled to bus to store information and instructions. Data storage device may be a flash memory or a magnetic disk or optical disc and can be internal or may be coupled externally to electronic device .

Electronic device may also be coupled via bus to display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD or light emitting diode LED to display information to a user. Electronic device can also include an alphanumeric input device including alphanumeric and other keys which may be coupled to bus to communicate information and command selections to processor s . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a touchpad a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys to communicate direction information and command selections to processor s and to control cursor movement on display . The functionality of display device alphanumeric input device and cursor control may be combined in a single device such as a touch screen display.

Electronic device further may include one or more network interface s to provide access to a network such as a local area network. Network interface s may include for example a wireless network interface having antenna which may represent one or more antenna e . Electronic device can include multiple wireless network interfaces such as a combination of WiFi Bluetooth and cellular telephony interfaces. Network interface s may also include for example a wired network interface to communicate with remote devices via network cable which may be for example an Ethernet cable a coaxial cable a fiber optic cable a serial cable or a parallel cable.

In one embodiment network interface s may provide access to a local area network for example by conforming to IEEE 802.11b and or IEEE 802.11g standards and or the wireless network interface may provide access to a personal area network for example by conforming to Bluetooth standards. Other wireless network interfaces and or protocols can also be supported. In addition to or instead of communication via wireless LAN standards network interface s may provide wireless communications using for example Time Division Multiple Access TDMA protocols Global System for Mobile Communications GSM protocols Code Division Multiple Access CDMA protocols and or any other type of wireless communications protocol.

The physical encoding of the key value on the substrate may take the form of etching the surface of substantially planar substrate or applying a conductive ink or other deposition process of conductive material such that the top surface of the substrate comprises conductive raised portions and recessed or lower portions . Recessed portions can be non conductive but this need not be the case. Raised portions can contact fingerprint sensor when the key device is positioned for reading by the fingerprint sensor . In an embodiment the raised portions and recessed portions can comprise a QR code that encodes a key value. Other encodings of patterns of raised portions and recessed portions that can encode a key value can include a bar code an image of a fingerprint a graphical image an alphanumeric string etc. In an embodiment raised portions can be conductive and recessed portions can be non conductive with both portions and having a substantially same height or thickness with respect to the substantially planar substrate . The raised portions can encode a key value. The substantially planar substrate and portions and can further be covered by a conductive opaque layer that visually obscures the encoding of the portions and so that portions and cannot be optically scanned or visually seen. In an embodiment the opaque layer can be non conductive. The opaque layer adds security by making it difficult or impossible to improperly acquire the key value of a key device by observing or photographing the device key . In an embodiment conductive opaque layer can further include a grid of non conductive barriers that in effect isolate conductive portions of the conductive opaque layer in a pixel like way. The grid can prevent conductive portions from bleeding across the recessed or non conductive portions while the conductive portions conduct through the conductive opaque layer. In effect the non conductive grid in the conductive layer can cause the conductive raised portions to be pixel like or more focused as the conductive portions pass charge through the conductive opaque layer . Although grid is illustrated as a small circular area it is understood that the cross hatch pattern shown on indicates that grid can extend to the full bounds of substantially planar substrate . In an embodiment grid can be limited to areas of the substantially planar substrate that contain raised portions and recessed portions which encode the key value on the substantially planar substrate . The manufactured key device can be configured to be received by the fingerprint sensor and configured to contact the conductive ring when the fingerprint sensor receives the key device . The conductive ring can be used to detect that the key device has been received by the fingerprint sensor and therefore the fingerprint sensor can begin scanning the key device .

In operation the user gains full access to the electronic device by entering a pass code a password or other acceptable manner of authentication supported by the electronic device .

In operation the user can set the electronic device into a learning mode. In an embodiment the learning mode can be implemented within the secure enclave . The secure enclave can make a system call outside the secure enclave via an Application Program Interface API to prompt the user to set the electronic device into a learning mode. However since the fingerprint sensor is securely coupled to the secure processing system this need not be the case.

In operation the user can be prompted to position the manufactured key device into the fingerprint sensor . In an embodiment the secure enclave can make a system call via an API to prompt the user to position the manufactured key device into the fingerprint sensor . In an embodiment the user prompt to position the manufactured key device into the fingerprint sensor can be made automatically in response to the electronic device being put into a key learning mode in operation .

In operation the conductive ring can detect the presence of the key device indicating that the key device can now be scanned. The conductive ring may not be able to determine whether the user placed a key device onto the fingerprint sensor or whether the user placed a human finger onto the fingerprint sensor .

In operation the fingerprint sensor can be read. Sensor data received from the fingerprint sensor can be securely transmitted from the fingerprint sensor to the secure processing system for processing. In an embodiment the fingerprint sensor and the secure processing system share a cryptographic key that can be used to establish a secure channel between the fingerprint sensor and the secure processor . In an embodiment the fingerprint sensor and secure processing system can be paired with the cryptographic key during manufacturing of the electronic device such that the cryptographic key shared between the fingerprint sensor and the secure processing system is distinct from a key value encoded on a key device .

In operation secure processing system may filter or process the fingerprint sensor data to remove artifacts from the sensor data.

In operation the secure processing system can determine whether the sensor data represents a human fingerprint or whether the sensor data was read from a key device .

If the sensor data was read from a manufactured key device then in operation the secure processing system can determine a key device type of the key device . For example the key device may have been encoded with a QR code that is orientation independent. The manufactured key device may alternatively be encoded with an alphanumeric string optionally comprising one or more orientation markers to facilitate reading the alphanumeric string. The manufactured key device may still alternatively be encoded with a graphical image optionally comprising one or more orientation markers. In an embodiment a key device type may comprise a hybrid of multiple key device types e.g. an alphanumeric key value plus a graphical image which can be determined by the secure processing system by analyzing the sensor data.

In operation the sensor data may optionally be further filtered or processed. In an embodiment the further filtering or processing can be performed using techniques that are specific to the key device type.

In operation the secure processing system can determine a key value from the sensor data. Determining a key value can further comprise determining a cryptographic key from the sensor data. In an embodiment a key value can be determined from the sensor data and a cryptographic key can be determined from the key value. Whether the cryptographic key is determined from the sensor data or the cryptographic key is determined from the key value which is determined from the sensor data can be selectable based upon a tag encoded in the key device or based upon a user selection. For example the cryptographic key can be determined using the key value as seed for an algorithm that determines a cryptographic key.

In operation the secure processing system can store the sensor data the key value and cryptographic key in a secure storage within the secure enclave . The user may optionally enter a human readable textual name to associate with the stored data so that the user may later refer to the key device and its key value by name.

In operation the user may optionally associate a key device with a policy that controls how the electronic device may be used with reference to the key device and its associated key value and cryptographic key.

In operation a user causes an electronic device to learn the key value from the key device in accordance with the operations described in above.

In operation the user logs on to her user account using the electronic device that has learned the key value in operation . In an embodiment the user logs on to her user account using a secure communication line between the electronic device and the user account . The secure communication line can be established using a cryptographic key determined from the key value learned in operation .

In operation the electronic device can instruct the user account to enter into a mode for learning the new key value learned by the electronic device in operation . In an embodiment the user can select on option on her electronic device to instruct the user account to enter in the mode for learning a new key. In another embodiment as a part of learning a new key value on the electronic device in operation the electronic device can prompt the user as to whether the user wants to register the key value learned in operation with a user account . In such an embodiment the electronic device can automatically log on to the user account . Alternatively the electronic device can prompt the user for a user account user name and password to access the user account. The electronic device can then detect that the electronic device has logged on to the user account and can instruct the user account to enter into a mode to learn a new key value. Prompts to the user can be implemented using calls to an appropriate API.

In operation the user account can prompt the user of electronic device to enter a human readable name for easily identifying the key value uploaded in operation . The key name can be used to facilitate a user identifying a specific key value. In an embodiment the electronic device can prompt the user to enter a key name which the electronic device can upload to the user account. In another embodiment the user account can generate the prompt for the user to enter a key name and the electronic device can display the prompt receive the key name and upload the key name to the user account. The user account can then associate the key value the key name the electronic device and the user account and store the key value key name and associations. In another embodiment the electronic device can upload the key name entered by the user in operation of method as described with reference to above.

In operation the user can optionally associate the key value with one or more user account policies. For example the user may want the key value associated with a policy that limits the amount of online purchases per day to a specified value. The user may also want the key value associated with a policy that specifies the user services that an electronic device may access when the electronic device presents the key value to the user account . For example the user may not want an electronic device using this key value to be able to access a backup or restore service that may overwrite the user s backed up personal information or download the user s personal information in a restore process.

A user may have multiple electronic devices such as mobile phones and or table computer . Electronic devices can access a user account and account services via network .

Network can be the Internet a cellular network a WiFi network a local area network a public switched telephone network or any combination of networks known in the art.

User account can include user account information. User account information can include one or more stored key values associated with the user account one or more policies associated with the one or more key values a list of the user s electronic devices that are registered with the account a list of users that are authorized to access the user account and their respective authentication and identification information. User account information may further include billing information address and contact information et al.

Account services can include media services cloud storage software updates an application store online purchasing a backup and restore service and a synchronization service . Services through are examples of online services that may be accessible via a single user account and are not intended to be limiting or an exhaustive list. Media services can include e.g. iTunes NetFlix Hulu Amazon Cloud or other media services. Cloud storage can include Apple iCloud and Amazon Cloud for example.

In operation a first electronic device of the user learns the key value of key device in accordance with the operations described with reference to above. A second electronic device of the user also learns the key value of the key device in accordance with the operations described with reference to above. At the completion of operations both the first and second electronic devices have learned the key value of the key device and can use the key value or a cryptographic key determined from the key value to establish secure communications. In an embodiment the key value or cryptographic key can comprise a private key shared by the two electronic devices . The following operations will be described in terms of the key value being synonymous with the cryptographic key. It is understood that the key value can itself be a cryptographic key and that alternatively a cryptographic key can be determined from the key value.

In operation the first electronic device initiates communication with the second electronic device by passing a token to the second electronic device identifying which learned shared key value will be used in establishing secure communication between the first and second electronic devices . The token can be a textual key name associated with the shared key value or other identifier that both the first and second electronic devices can use to uniquely identify the particular shared key value to use.

In operation the first and second electronic devices can look up the shared key value associated with the token.

In operation the first and second devices utilize the key value or a cryptographic key determined from the key value to encrypt communications between the first and second communication devices.

In operations the new and old electronic devices learn a key value from a manufactured key device in accordance with operations described with reference to above. It is understood that the old electronic device may have already learned the key value from the manufactured key device before the user obtained the new electronic device .

In operation the user can register the key value of the manufactured key device that will be used to establish secure communications between the old electronic device and the new electronic device in accordance with the operations described with reference to above. If the backup and restore service is used to facilitate the provisioning of the new electronic device then the registered key value can be used to securely access the backup and restore service . If the registered key value is associated with a user account policy then the user account policy will determine whether the backup and restore service can be used to provision the new electronic device .

In operation the user can select specific items from the old electronic device for provisioning the new electronic device . For example a user might select contacts calendar items documents pictures and text messages for provisioning the new electronic device but not select music or email messages because they are already stored and accessible on a remote server by a media service or email server respectively. Alternatively a user may select all items on the old electronic device for provisioning the new electronic device . In an embodiment the selection of which items to transfer to the new electronic device can be made automatically. In an embodiment in which the backup and restore service is used the selection of which items to transfer to the new electronic device can be made automatically by the backup and restore service . In an embodiment a user may opt to provision the new electronic device directly from a previous backup of the old electronic device performed by the backup and restore service .

In operation a user can select whether the backup and restore service will be to be used to facilitate the provisioning of the new electronic device .

If the backup and restore service is not used to provision the new electronic device then in operation a secure communication channel can be established between the old and new electronic devices as described above with reference to .

In operation the old electronic device can then securely transfer the items selected in operation from the old electronic device to the new electronic device thereby provisioning the new electronic device .

If the backup and restore service will be used to facilitate provisioning of the new electronic device then in operation the old electronic device and the new electronic device can establish a secure communication channel with the user account and backup and restore service .

In operation the items selected for transfer from the old electronic device to the new electronic device can be securely uploaded from the old electronic device to the backup and restore service . If the user has opted to provision the new electronic device from a previous backup of the old electronic device then operation can be skipped.

In operation the new electronic device can download and store the selected items from the backup and restore service thereby provisioning the new electronic device .

To configure one or more policies for a key value in an embodiment a user can select arrow keypad corresponding to a learned key value to view Key Settings for the corresponding key value such as Key 1. Key Settings for Key 1 can be edited by pressing the Edit keypad to enter Edit mode for Key 1. In Edit mode a key value can be named in Name field for easy identification. A policy can be associated with Key 1 can be by pressing arrow keypad to view Policies . From Policies to return to Key Settings the user can press the Back keypad . Selecting creating and editing policies is described with reference to below.

In an embodiment a predefined set of policies may be pre installed on an new electronic device before a user receives the new electronic device . Policies whether predefined or user defined can be named configured and saved for association with one or more key values. Some example policies are Basic Limited Secure Full and Custom. A user can create and configure a new policy by pressing the New keypad . A user can exit the Policies screen by pressing the Back keypad .

A Basic device access policy may be configured for e.g. the kind of electronic device access that the user would grant to a friend that wanted to temporarily borrow the user s electronic device . Basic policy settings can include configuring device usage limits access to applications and control of access to services that are accessed via a user account . Policy settings for a policy can be saved using the Save keypad. In an embodiment pressing an arrow keypad allows editing of e.g. Basic Usage settings . The user may permit her friend to make calls on the electronic device but choose to limit calls to 30 minutes of domestic calling and no international calling to prevent incurring unintended international calling fees. The user may also permit a friend a limited number of text messages such as 20 texts and permit a small amount of data usage such as 25 megabytes 25 MB . The Basic Usage settings can be saved by pressing keypad . The user can exit the Basic Usage settings by pressing the Back keypad.

Similarly if the friend has lost her purse the user may want to permit her friend limited access to user account services such as purchases e.g. a limited amount of food and transportation purchases to get home safely. However the user may not want her friend to be able to access cloud services such as backup restore or device synchronization that may affect the data integrity of the user s electronic device or expose personal information stored by cloud services . The user can save the Services settings by pressing the Save keypad or exit the Edit mode for Services settings for the Basic policy by pressing the Back keypad.

When accessing the user s user account and user account services that are accessible via the user account a user may want to encrypt access to the user account . The user may also want to encrypt data transfer when using the backup and restore service . A user may also want to encrypt all data communications and emails when using a key value that has the Secure policy associated with the key value. The user can save the Secure policy settings by pressing the Save keypad or exit Edit mode for the Secure policy settings by pressing the Back keypad.

In operation it is determined whether a policy has been associated with a key value and whether the policy has been set as the default operating policy set for the electronic device .

If a policy has been associated with a key value learned by the electronic device and the policy has been set as the default policy for operating the electronic device then in operation it is determined whether the user has presented a valid passcode fingerprint or key device to access the electronic device .

If a default policy has been set for the electronic device and the user presents a valid passcode fingerprint or key device then in operation the user is granted access to the electronic device and the device will operate in accordance with the default policy.

If a default policy has been set for the electronic device and the user does not present a valid passcode fingerprint or key device then in operation the user will not be granted access to the electronic device .

In an embodiment an administrator of an electronic device can set a key value or passcode that permits full access to the electronic device so that the default policy can be overridden by using the administrator s key device or passcode to access the device. Otherwise the operating mode for the electronic device is in accordance with the default policy associated with the learned key value. As an example a parent or employer may configure a default policy for operating an electronic device and give their child or employee respectively a passcode and key device to utilize the electronic device in accordance with the default policy. The parent or employer may still retain an overriding key value or passcode that permits full access to the electronic device .

If no default policy has been set for operating the electronic device then in operation it is determined whether the user of the device has entered a valid passcode to access the electronic device . If so then in operation the user is given full access to the electronic device .

If no default policy has been set for operating the electronic device and access has not been attempted by entering a valid passcode then in operation it is determined whether a user has presented a valid fingerprint at the fingerprint sensor. If so the user is given full access to the electronic device .

If no default policy has been set for operating the electronic device and access has not been attempted by passcode or fingerprint then in operation it is determined whether the user has presented a valid key device at the fingerprint sensor the key device having a key value that was previously learned by the electronic device. If so then in operation the device operation is configured according the a policy associated with the key device presented to the fingerprint sensor . Otherwise in operation access to the electronic device is denied.

It will be understood that both fingerprints and passcodes may have a fallback number of attempts. If the electronic device does not recognize the fingerprint presented for accessing the electronic device then the electronic device may permit e.g. three 3 additional attempts to access the electronic device using a fingerprint. Similarly if a passcode is entered for accessing the electronic device then the electronic device may permit e.g. up to five 5 attempts to access the electronic device using a passcode. The key device does not need fallback attempts because the key device has a very high repeatability rate. In an embodiment an electronic device access method can include a fallback number or attempts for accessing the electronic device using a key device .

The computing system illustrated in is intended to represent a range of computing systems either wired or wireless including for example desktop computer systems laptop computer systems cellular telephones personal digital assistants PDAs including cellular enabled PDAs set top boxes entertainment systems or other consumer electronic devices. Alternative computing systems may include more fewer and or different components. The computing system of may be used to provide a client device and or a server device.

Computing system includes bus or other communication device to communicate information and processor coupled to bus that may process information.

While computing system is illustrated with a single processor computing system may include multiple processors and or co processors . Computing system further may include random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device referred to as main memory coupled to bus and may store information and instructions that may be executed by processor s . Main memory may also be used to store temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by processor .

Computing system may also include read only memory ROM and or other static storage device coupled to bus that may store static information and instructions for processor s . Data storage device may be coupled to bus to store information and instructions. Data storage device such as flash memory or a magnetic disk or optical disc and corresponding drive may be coupled to computing system .

Computing system may also be coupled via bus to display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or liquid crystal display LCD to display information to a user. Computing system can also include an alphanumeric input device including alphanumeric and other keys which may be coupled to bus to communicate information and command selections to processor s . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a touchpad a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys to communicate direction information and command selections to processor s and to control cursor movement on display .

Computing system further may include one or more network interface s to provide access to a network such as a local area network. Network interface s may include for example a wireless network interface having antenna which may represent one or more antenna e . Computing system can include multiple wireless network interfaces such as a combination of WiFi Bluetooth and cellular telephony interfaces. Network interface s may also include for example a wired network interface to communicate with remote devices via network cable which may be for example an Ethernet cable a coaxial cable a fiber optic cable a serial cable or a parallel cable

In one embodiment network interface s may provide access to a local area network for example by conforming to IEEE 802.11b and or IEEE 802.11g standards and or the wireless network interface may provide access to a personal area network for example by conforming to Bluetooth standards. Other wireless network interfaces and or protocols can also be supported. In addition to or instead of communication via wireless LAN standards network interface s may provide wireless communications using for example Time Division Multiple Access TDMA protocols Global System for Mobile Communications GSM protocols Code Division Multiple Access CDMA protocols and or any other type of wireless communications protocol.

In Software Stack an exemplary embodiment applications can make calls to Services A or B using several Service APIs and to Operating System OS using several OS APIs. A and B can make calls to OS using several OS APIs.

Note that the Service 2 has two APIs one of which Service 2 API 1 receives calls from and returns values to Application 1 and the other Service 2 API 2 receives calls from and returns values to Application 2 Service 1 which can be for example a software library makes calls to and receives returned values from OS API 1 and Service 2 which can be for example a software library makes calls to and receives returned values from both OS API 1 and OS API 2 Application 2 makes calls to and receives returned values from OS API 2.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes can be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

