---

title: System and method for proactive management of an information handling system with in-situ measurement of end user actions
abstract: Dissatisfaction variables track inputs made by an end user at an information handling system that are associated with end user dissatisfaction regarding the operation of the information handling system, such as corrective actions, so that an alert issues if a dissatisfaction variable changes by a predetermined amount over a predetermined time period. Dissatisfaction variables identify a pattern of a change in behavior by an end user rather than the operational status of system components. For example, an increase in end user forced shutdowns of the information handling system indicates end user dissatisfaction with the information handling system, such as repeated freezes of the operating system so that performing a timely diagnostics will improve end user satisfaction and proactively correct and impending system failure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09195561&OS=09195561&RS=09195561
owner: Dell Products L.P.
number: 09195561
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140505
---
The present invention relates in general to the field of information handling system management and more particularly to a system and method for proactive management of information handling systems with in situ measurement of end user actions.

As the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option available to users is information handling systems. An information handling system generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes thereby allowing users to take advantage of the value of the information. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements vary between different users or applications information handling systems may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in information handling systems allow for information handling systems to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing airline reservations enterprise data storage or global communications. In addition information handling systems may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems.

Information handling systems have helped to make people more productive by promoting efficient information management and communication. A downside to the widespread adoption of information handling systems is that failure of an information handling system often leaves an end user in a bad spot. With a soft failure the end user can usually get the information handling system running again by taking corrective action. For example a re boot of an information handling system fixes any number of problems by resetting the data in memory that is used by the processor. Such minor failures are an inconvenience although a poorly timed re boot can lose data recently generated by the end user and not yet saved to non volatile memory such as a hard disk drive. A catastrophic failure prevents the end user from using the information handling system such as where a hard disk drive fails to make booting impossible. In the event of a hard disk failure an end user typically loses all of the data stored on the hard disk drive. To prevent a loss of data end users typically back up data at another information handling system or storage device however even when data is backed up some data created after the time of the most recent back up is likely still lost and the end user faces the inconvenience of having to load the backed up data to a replacement information handling system.

One way to avoid the inconvenience of an information handling system failure is to determine that system is likely to fail before the system actually fails so that the likely failure can be proactively addressed before an actual failure occurs. In order to predict an imminent failure some systems monitor operating parameters with hardware and software monitoring agents and analyze the operating parameters with reasoning tools for indications of impending failures. For example detection of outliers faults and early warnings of failures use real time data and intelligent algorithms but at a high expense both for design of the systems and for computational resources generally needed to track all types of failure modes and their symptoms on an information handling system in the field. Further many faults and failures do not generate patterns that are detectable in advance via data and algorithms.

Therefore a need has arisen for a system and method which supports proactive management of an information handling system with in situ measurement of end user dissatisfaction.

In accordance with the present invention a system and method are provided which substantially reduce the disadvantages and problems associated with previous methods and systems for management of information handling system operations with in situ monitoring. End user inputs to an information handling system are monitored for indications of end user dissatisfaction regarding the operation of the information handling system. If end user dissatisfaction is detected then an alert issues to support proactive investigation of the cause of the dissatisfaction.

More specifically an information handling system has a monitoring agent executing on a processing component such as firmware instructions in a chipset to monitor end user inputs at the information handling system that indicate end user dissatisfaction with the information handling system such as corrective actions taken to respond to a fault. If dissatisfaction is detected a reporting agent issues an alert to allow proactive management of any faults associated with the dissatisfaction. One or more dissatisfaction variables are defined for monitoring such as forced power downs by pressing and holding a power switch by removing external power and by removing internal battery power. Thresholds are determined for each dissatisfaction variable by tracking user inputs over a sample time period. If a monitored dissatisfaction variable exceeds a threshold then an alert issues for proactive management of potential causes of the end user input associated with the dissatisfaction variable such as by running diagnostics at the information handling system. In one embodiment monitoring is increased in response to an alert to help diagnose the cause of end user dissatisfaction.

The present invention provides a number of important technical advantages. One example of an important technical advantage is that information handling system monitoring of dissatisfaction variables provides a low overhead management system that detects end user dissatisfaction with the operation of the information handling system. Proactive response to dissatisfaction variables addresses end user dissatisfaction thus providing an end user with a more positive user experience. Since indications of end user dissatisfaction tend to increase as an information handling system approaches failure a proactive response helps to detect an impending system failure so that corrective action can take place before the failure occurs. Dissatisfaction variables at an information handling system are monitored to identify a pattern of change in behavior by an end user rather than the operational status of components. Monitoring dissatisfaction variables provides a system level management solution that is independent of the particular components of a system to provide a universal low cost solution that addresses end user satisfaction rather than complex system specific operating variables.

Dissatisfaction variables monitored at an information handling system provide a proactive basis for addressing difficulties that arise with the information handling system as indicated by an end user s interaction with the information handling system. For purposes of this disclosure an information handling system may include any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities operable to compute classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display manifest detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control or other purposes. For example an information handling system may be a personal computer a network storage device or any other suitable device and may vary in size shape performance functionality and price. The information handling system may include random access memory RAM one or more processing resources such as a central processing unit CPU or hardware or software control logic ROM and or other types of nonvolatile memory. Additional components of the information handling system may include one or more disk drives one or more network ports for communicating with external devices as well as various input and output I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse and a video display. The information handling system may also include one or more buses operable to transmit communications between the various hardware components.

Referring now to a block diagram depicts an information handling system that monitors end user dissatisfaction variables. Information handling system is built with a housing that encloses plural processing components that cooperate to process information such as a CPU RAM a hard disk drive a wireless network interface card and a chipset . Chipset coordinates operations of the processing components at a physical level such as with BIOS firmware instructions. An operating system executes on CPU to provide a platform that supports operation of other applications on the processing components. During normal power up BIOS detects an end user input at power switch and executes firmware instructions to bootstrap operating system from non volatile memory such as hard disk drive to an operational state on CPU and RAM . During normal power down operating system presents a user interface at display with a power off icon that the end user selects using I O devices such as a keyboard or mouse . Operating system detects activation of power off icon and in response sequences a power down of the processing components.

In some instances information handling system will run into difficulty such as where a fault in stored data or other fault causes operating system or applications running over operating system to freeze. When this happens end users can take a variety of corrective actions to attempt to bring information handling system back to an operational state. One alternative available with WINDOWS is to press a combination of keys to bring up an operating system task manager that allows a forced closing of a frozen application. If the operating system itself is frozen the end user typically must perform a forced power down of information handling system by removing power. One way to perform a forced power down is to press and hold power switch for a defined time period such as four seconds. BIOS detects the held power switch as an indication for a forced power down and in response removes power from the processing components without coordination of operating system . In some instances a fault occurs with firmware instructions so that BIOS fails to detect a forced power down input at power switch . In such instances end user corrective actions include removal of power to information handling system such as by unplugging an external power source or removing an internal power source . Generally an information handling system that freezes will operate normally after another power up and boot however end users will typically feel dissatisfaction at the system s performance especially if information was lost due to a forced power down.

In order to track end user dissatisfaction with information handling system a monitoring agent tracks as dissatisfaction variables the end user inputs to information handling system that are indicative of end user dissatisfaction with the operation of information handling system . For example in one embodiment a dissatisfaction variable is an end user input made as a corrective action at information handling system . Some examples of such dissatisfaction variables include system restarts commanded through the operating system system shutdowns using operating system instructions forced power downs by pressing and holding the power switch forced power downs by removing external power such as a wall plug or AC adapter forced shutdowns by removing a battery from the system opening and closing of a rotatable lid of a portable system turning a wireless network interface card transceiver on and off enabling and disabling wireless communication through system software end user system shut down in response to a high thermal event removing and inserting hardware such as a hard disk drive CPU mini card or optical drive identified as the same hardware by reference to a hardware unique serial number opening and closing a housing cover docking and undocking the system from a port replicator turning a display monitor on and off using a task manager or similar tool to shut down non responsive tasks or processes and system halts due to operating system or application exceptions such as a system crash kernel error stop error or Blue Screen of Death . In some instance a dissatisfaction variable is defined over a time period such as inputs that cycle components on and off as might be performed by an end user having difficulty with the component. In one embodiment dissatisfaction variables are built with use cases by capturing end user input patterns to identify patterns that correlate with user dissatisfaction as expressed by end users with performance issues or with impending system failure.

Monitoring agent continuously monitors inputs at information handling system to identify dissatisfaction variables such as corrective actions. Monitoring agent is for example firmware instructions executing in chipset that tracks dissatisfaction variables from the operating system via WMI calls directly from hardware application programming interfaces or from a BIOS or system diagnostics interface. Monitoring agent processes inputs over a sample time period to define a baseline of expected inputs for the end user. For example an end user who uses a forced power down at the end of each work day would have a baseline of one forced power down that fits into that end user s normal usage pattern. Once monitoring agent establishes a baseline for a dissatisfaction variable monitoring agent monitors for changes in behavior patterns associated with the dissatisfaction variable. If a change in behavior of end user inputs from a baseline dissatisfaction variable is detected then a reporting agent interfaced with monitoring agent issues an alert such as by communicating a message through a network to a diagnostics agent operating on a server information handling system . Diagnostics agent takes proactive measures to diagnose problems with information handling system and otherwise address end user dissatisfaction with information handling system . One advantage of this approach is that a trouble ticket for correcting the information handling system can be created and acted upon without an end user initiated contact to a service center or analysis by a technician.

Referring now to a flow diagram depicts one embodiment of a process for monitoring end user dissatisfaction variables at an information handling system. The process starts at step with a monitoring agent executing on an information handling system tracking dissatisfaction variables in real time at the information handling system. At step dissatisfaction variable information over a sample time period is used to build a baseline of expected end user inputs and limit conditions that will result in issuance of an alert. At step a check is made of monitored dissatisfaction variable information to determine if a limit condition or threshold over the baseline is detected. As an example an end user who performs a forced shutdown once a day who has a forced shutdown twice in one day exceeds the baseline expected value by 100 . If a predetermined dissatisfaction variable pattern is not detected at step the process returns to step to continue monitoring the information handling system. If a predetermined dissatisfaction variable pattern is detected at step the process continues to step generate an alert and to step to generate a service request for proactive management of end user dissatisfaction with the information handling system.

Referring now to a flow diagram depicts another embodiment of a process for monitoring end user dissatisfaction variables at an information handling system. In the embodiment depicted by three dissatisfaction variables are monitored. At step a monitor is installed at the information handling system to track dissatisfaction variables. At step a counter is initiated to count restarts initiated at the information handling system. At step a counter is initiated to count user initiated shutdowns at the information handling system. At step a counter is initiated to count forced shutdowns of the information handling system. For example a forced shutdown may be defined by a specific action such as pressing and holding a power button or removing external power or may be defined by an action taken without normal operating system management such as a shutdown that is not commanded through the operating system. At step a rate of occurrence is calculated for each dissatisfaction variable over a sample time period. At step a comparison is made between the rate of restarts detected and a threshold value of the rated of expected restarts. If the rate of detected restarts exceeds the threshold the process continues to step to issue an alert. If not the process continues to step to compare the detected rate of user initiated shutdowns with a threshold value of an expected rate of user initiated shutdowns. If the rate of detected user initiated shutdowns exceeds the threshold the process continues to step to issue an alert. If not the process continues to step to compare the detected rate of forced shutdowns with a threshold value of an expected rate of forced shutdowns. If the detected rate of forced shutdowns exceeds the threshold then the process continues to step to issue an alert. If not then the process continues to step to compare a summation of the dissatisfaction values with a summation threshold. If the summation exceeds a threshold the process continues to step to issue an alert otherwise the process continues to step to continue monitoring.

Threshold values are set for each dissatisfaction variable to catch dissatisfaction by an end user without incorrectly finding dissatisfaction. For example a threshold value is set so that minor difficulties will not exceed the threshold while more serious issues such as impending system failures will trip the threshold. In one embodiment non parametric thresholds are developed using historical data of the dissatisfaction variable. For example an example of an upper limit for the rate of forced shutdowns C3 T is calculated 1 3 1.5 3 1 

Where Q and Q are the third and first quartile of the C3 T historic data used as a baseline. Alternatively parametric thresholds may be computed by fitting data collected during baseline to a parametric distribution such as a normal distribution. For example a threshold for C3 T may be set at a value of greater than the 98percent cumulative value calculated from the mean and standard deviation of the baseline data collected with initial sampling.

Referring now to a flow diagram depicts a process for performing diagnostics in response to an alert for a change in an end user dissatisfaction variable. The process starts at step with installation of a monitoring agent at an information handling system. At step the monitoring agent determines the hardware and software configuration of the information handling system. At step the monitoring agent initiates monitoring with default settings provided from a monitoring agent manager such as a network location that stores default settings alert thresholds and configuration rules. At step a determination is made of whether a dissatisfaction variable alert should issue for monitored dissatisfaction variables. If not the process continues to step to continue monitoring the default dissatisfaction variables. If an alert issues at step the process continues to step to check with the monitoring agent configuration manager at step for new dissatisfaction variables. At step the updated dissatisfaction variables are set and monitored so that diagnosis of the cause of the alert dissatisfaction variable can be identified.

In one example embodiment the monitoring agent configuration manager responds to the alert by increasing the frequency of monitoring of selected dissatisfaction variables. In another embodiment the monitoring agent configuration manager increases the number of different dissatisfaction variables that are monitored to provide more information for diagnosis break fix and root cause assessment. For instance if a dissatisfaction variable alert issues due an end user inserting and removing the battery of a portable information handling system then the monitoring agent configuration manager changes monitoring agent settings to monitor additional battery parameters such as charge level charge capacity cycle count and battery serial number. This additional information validates a number of scenarios such as multiple battery use by swapping batteries charge level variations and anomalous readings the system if any exist. By narrowing the possible causes of use dissatisfaction the chances of a false detection of dissatisfaction are reduced.

Although the present invention has been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

