---

title: Actuated pin antenna reflector
abstract: Apparatus for improving the performance and allowing increased directionality of reflecting-type antenna systems by varying the geometry of the reflecting surface. A reflecting surface is composed of an array of actuated pins which are capable of extending or retracting to alter the overall pattern. An actuator controlling unit has the address of each actuator and is able to extend or retract the pins to the desired degree. The specific pattern which the actuator control unit realizes is determined by the iterative position calculator which utilizes directional inputs from the user and/or inputs from a system which determines the effectiveness of previous pin movements. The apparatus attempts to maximize the received signal by assessing amplitude changes over time and utilizing that information to direct alteration in the reflecting surface for optimal performance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09577344&OS=09577344&RS=09577344
owner: The United States of Americ as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 09577344
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140129
---
This patent application claims the priority benefit of the filing date of provisional application Ser. No. 61 909 454 having been filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on Nov. 27 2013 and now incorporated by reference herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

This invention relates generally to reflector type antennas and more specifically to software definable antennas capable of functioning across a wide range of frequency ranges and environmental conditions. This invention also relates to the testing design and fabrication of antenna reflectors.

That there is a clearly stated need for a software defined antenna system to pair with the growth in software based radios is well known across both government and industry. In order to gain the full benefit of these novel radios flexible antenna hardware is urgently needed.

It is clearly desirable to provide geometrically flexible antenna hardware capable of functioning efficiently across a broad range of frequencies signal types and environmental conditions.

An optimal solution to the problem of building hardware functional across a wide bandwidth with variable power transmit and receive capable of functioning in degraded or cluttered environments is a maximally adaptive radio system. The prior art has embarked upon a quest to engineer this very approach but while it has succeeded in building software defined thus highly adaptive radios it has failed to generate an antenna system which would allow it to function to its full potential. Specifically the prior art still utilizes standard hardware such as patch antennas and therefore still unable to gain full usage from these novel software defined radio systems. Additionally the majority of the explorations into the field of reconfigurable antennas have been at the lower end of the size and power scale with minimal efforts into larger higher power applications.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US20130265209 A1 to Brossier et al. discloses a Ku band reconfigurable reflector type antenna composed of a reflecting membrane connected to a rigid support via a series of actuators which deform the membrane to allow a variety of reflecting geometries. This system however is designed for low weight applications notably spacecraft and lacks the degree of versatility that software defined radios would necessarily require.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus that overcomes the prior art s dependency on fixed non reconfigurable reflector antennas.

It is a further object of the present invention to overcome the limitations of manually reconfigurable antenna reflectors which cannot perform precise on the fly geometrical alterations to the reflector.

It is yet a further object of the present invention to provide the capability of increasing the signal to noise ratio of received signals in dynamically changing interference environments by adapting the reflector shape in real time to maximize the amplitude of the received signal.

It is yet still a further object of the present invention to provide an apparatus with the capability of physically modeling a wide range of possible reflector shapes for the purposes of testing and prototyping.

Briefly stated the present invention is an apparatus for improving the performance and allowing increased directionality of reflecting type antenna systems by varying the geometry of the reflecting surface. A reflecting surface is composed of an array of actuated pins which are capable of extending or retracting to alter the overall pattern. An actuator controlling unit has the address of each actuator and is able to extend or retract the pins to the desired degree. The specific pattern which the actuator control unit realizes is determined by the iterative position calculator which utilizes directional inputs from the user and or inputs from a system which determines the effectiveness of previous pin movements. The apparatus attempts to maximize the received signal by assessing amplitude changes over time and utilizing that information to direct alteration in the reflecting surface for optimal performance.

According to a preferred embodiment of the present invention a variable geometry reflecting antenna apparatus comprises a backplane a plurality of pins each having a head and a shaft where each shaft protrudes through the backplane at a substantially perpendicular orientation to the backplane an actuator connected to each shaft where the actuator displaces the shaft in a linear manner so as to vary the distance between the head and the backplane and a control system for controlling the actuators.

According to an alternate embodiment of the present invention a variable geometry reflecting antenna apparatus comprising a backplane a plurality of pins each having a head and a shaft where each shaft protrudes through the backplane at a substantially perpendicular orientation to the backplane a contact surface incorporated into each shaft a plurality of signal feeds incorporated into the backplane where each signal feed corresponds to each contact surface an actuator connected to each shaft where the actuator displaces shaft in a linear manner so as to vary the distance between the head and the backplane an impedance matching network for matching the impedance of a signal path from the pins the contact surfaces and the signal feeds to a transmit and receive signal source and a control system for controlling the actuators.

Referring to the present invention called an Actuated Pin Antenna Reflector APAR is composed of an array of broad headed pins set into and extending behind an anechoic backplane . There are multiple possible means of performing the necessary processing to determine pin positions and to physically mobilize the pins the most effective means envisioned would be the following described system.

The back of each pin is attached to a mechanical actuator capable of extending or retracting the pin upon a command signal from the Actuator Control Unit ACU see to which all actuators are wired. The geometry of the pin head length of the pin number of pins and distance of possible pin retraction would depend on the specific application of the present invention. The ACU see stores pin addresses and generates control signals from inputs from the Iterative Position Calculator IPC which utilizes a numeric approximation technique such as the Monte Carlo or a genetic algorithm method to determine the next set of pin positions. The IPC receives information from the Reflector Control I O RCIO based on received signal strength comparisons from various iterations of pin positions. Received signals are blocked into comparison bins the precise timing of which would depend on the present invention s application and sent both to the Digital Radio Frequency Memory DRFM not part of invention and not shown and to Amplitude Comparator Module ACM where the nth bin is compared with the n 1 th bin. This comparison is used to determine if the latest pin motion has improved the received amplitude.

The present invention or APAR while capable of an extremely wide range of antenna geometries and on the fly signal maximization might be unsuited for some highly mobile applications where weight is a major factor. It would be most apt for fixed applications requiring detection and amplification of low amplitude signals such as satellite communications over the horizon radar and radio astronomy. The dynamic capabilities of the present invention would enhance mitigation of atmospheric signal distortions as well as some measure of angular target detection. Additionally the present invention can be used in design of standard antenna reflectors where the precise geometry of the reflector is determined for a given application and then the pin positions can be read from the ACU see and fed into a 3 D printer for fabrication.

There are alternate means of implementing the actuated pin system into Radio Frequency RF transmit and receive systems. Referring to and depicts such an alternate embodiment of the present invention. In this alternate embodiment the pins have a contact surface which when the actuator pushes the pin into the extended position makes a short with the signal feed . This in turn allows the broad head of the pin to radiate into free space so that the sum of the pins actuated forward make up the radiating element of the antenna. In order to both transmit and receive in the most efficient possible manner a software definable Impedance Matching Network receives inputs from the ACU to compare with a predefined list of impedances for the number of pins connected to the signal feeds at any given time. This system then ensures that the antenna system is impedance matched to the Receive Transmit Rx Tx see system at all times.

The above and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals designate the same elements.

Referring to the received signal from the radio s Rx Tx interface to the present invention is then input to the Time Bin Generator where the data is split into time bins separated by Time Bin Start Gates . Referring back to the received data is now separated into quantized segments as seen as the output of the Time Bin Generator . This formatted data now isolated into segments by time bins is sent to two places the High Speed Memory and the Amplitude Comparator Module ACM . The High Speed Memory delays the received signal one timing bin and sends it on to the ACM where it is compared to the next bin i.e. the nbin from the memory is compared with the n 1bin from the Time Bin Generator at the same time that the n 1bin is saved to compare with the n 2 bin . The ACM compares the relative amplitude of the receive signals in the different Time Bins to give an amplitude difference it then time stamps this data for later comparison with pin motion position time gained from the Actuator Control Unit see and sends it on to the Reflector Control I O .

Referring to and simultaneously depicts an alternate embodiment of the present invention and its test article implementation respectively whereby the feedhorn see and reflector system of RF transmission and reception are replaced through use of the pins themselves. In this embodiment the actuated pins have Contact Surfaces which when the pins are actuated forward make contact with Signal Feeds that make up a Signal Feed Network . This network connects to the Rx Tx interface via an Impedance Matching Network allowing the individual broad head elements of the pins to act as radiating elements. When the Actuators pull the pins and their attached Contact Surfaces away from the Signal Feeds it breaks the contact and ensures the pin in question will not radiate. In this way the Actuator Control Unit working with the Impedance Matching Network to reduce impedance mismatch ensure that the proper set of pins are part of the radiating element so that the overall geometry of the element is tuned as desired.

Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

