---

title: Ultra-broadband coherent radar transponder for precision tracking
abstract: An ultra-broadband coherent radar transponder for precision tracking, and in particular a transponder arrangement having an antenna, receiver, control logic, delay, and transmitter components arranged to coherently amplify, delay and repeat back a reference signal to be utilized by a microwave radar system for high fidelity tracking.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09557414&OS=09557414&RS=09557414
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09557414
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140130
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to an ultra broadband coherent radar transponder for precision tracking and in particular a transponder arrangement having an antenna section receiver section control logic section delay section and transmitter section arranged to coherently amplify delay and repeat back a reference signal to be utilized by a microwave radar system for high fidelity tracking.

Radar transponders have been utilized for many applications including missile aircraft and ship tracking and navigation for many years. They are generally used to receive delay amplify and retransmit a radar signal to present a strong reference signal to the interrogating radar. However most were non coherent answering back at a fixed frequency different from the radar transmitter. Some coherent units have been developed for missile and satellite tracking applications where knowing the velocity vector is critical to determining flight safety. However these units are single frequency and have very narrow bandwidths of 10 MHz or less and are tuned to the radar transmitter frequency which was typically never changed.

Frequency chirp or frequency hopping radar systems require a frequency agile transponder that could keep up with the radars to provide a steady tracking signal. A coherent transponder with approximately 1 GHz bandwidth was developed by the Navy in the early 1990s by expanding the earlier narrow bandwidth surface acoustic wave SAW and bulk acoustic wave BAW delay line technology with similar wider bandwidth components. Although this Navy unit is useful for applications where the radar frequency band can be confined to that of the transponder there are applications where the frequency range of the interrogating radar exceeds that transponder s bandwidth.

The bandwidth of older designs is typically the bandwidth of SAW or BAW delay lines. It is desired to have an ultra broad band transponder that has a bandwidth that covers the entire S X and Ku microwave bands.

In one aspect the invention an ultra broadband coherent radar transponder for precision tracking. In this aspect the invention includes an antenna section a receiver section and a transmitter section. The antenna section is electrically connected to each of the receiver section and the transmitter section. The ultra broadband coherent radar transponder also includes a delay section having a radio frequency fiber optic transmitter and at least one fiber optic cable spool wherein each of the at least one fiber optic cable spool has a cable length that determines the delay interval wherein the fiber optic cable spool comprises single mode fiber with a bandwidth capability of up to about 18 GHz. The delay section also includes a fiber optic receiver. In this aspect the ultra broadband coherent radar transponder also includes a control logic section having a microcontroller compatible with each of a plurality of preset delay times the microcontroller programmed to blank the receiver for the preset delay time.

As shown the transponder includes an antenna section a receiver section and a transmitter section wherein as outlined below the antenna section is electrically connected to each of the receiver section and the transmitter section . As shown the ultra band coherent radar transponder also includes a delay section. As outlined below the delay has a radio frequency fiber optic transmitter and a fiber optic cable spool with a length that determines the delay interval. The fiber optic cable spool is made from a single mode fiber with a bandwidth capability of up to about 18 GHz. As shown and as outlined below the delay also includes a fiber optic receiver . The transponder also includes a control logic section that is controlled by a microcontroller that as outlined below controls amplifier and receiver switches and allows for variable settings for delay time high power amplifier initiation and receiver blanking.

Returning to the antenna section as shown in the antenna section is electrically connected to each of the receiver section and the transmitter section . The antenna section provides a way to receive electromagnetic radar pulses and couples these electromagnetic radar pulses to the receiver section . As shown the antenna section includes a switch which is used to couple radar pulses to the receiver section . The switch which is controlled by the microcontroller may also be used to couple pulses from the transmitter section to the antenna section . The antenna section also transmits reply pulses transmitted via the transmitter section after a predetermined delay time. According to an embodiment the antenna section may be tailored to the specific application but are generally omnidirectional in azimuth with as much elevation coverage at low grazing angles as desired.

The antenna section has two modes of operation single or dual antenna modes selected by a transmitter switch outlined below which is controlled from the exterior of the unit. The design of the antenna section allows for optimization of antenna performance while keeping antenna size to a minimum over the broad operating frequency range. As shown the antenna section includes a first antenna and a second antenna . Antenna may be either a high band only with about 8 to about 18 GHz capability. Antenna may also be a larger broadband unit that will cover the complete frequency range of about 2 GHz to about 18 GHz. Antenna is a low band design with about 2 GHz to about 4 GHz capability which can be utilized with a high band only embodiment of antenna for full band performance. The antenna section also includes an RF switch ferrite circulator and directional coupler to direct the RF pulses for the selected mode of operation. For the single antenna only mode as related to antenna transmitter outputs are combined and routed to antenna . The transmitter outputs are kept separate for the dual antenna mode and routed to their respective antennas. The transmitter switch manipulates the transmitter outputs and determines the mode of operation of the antenna section . The transmitter switch may be controlled externally by a user. The RF switch on the other hand is nominally set to receive pulses while waiting for interrogations. After a pulse is received at antenna and subsequently in the microcontroller in the logic section the microcontroller directs the switch to the transmitter side before the received pulse exits the delay section . For the low band side in the antenna section this function is performed by circulator .

Signals from the antenna section are routed to the receiver section . As shown the receiver section includes RF limiter diodes and and RF switching . Also shown are filters and at the input to amplifiers and to enable the single or dual antenna modes. The receiver section also includes directional couplers and . Signals from the antenna section are amplified in the receiver section which also splits the signals in the directional coupler into outputs for the RF Delay section and the digital Logic system . This output from the receiver section is split 50 50 with 50 of the signal going to the RF delay section as a delay section pulse and the remaining 50 going to the control logic section as a logic section pulse. The output from the receiver section is amplified to a level that efficiently modulates the fiber optic delay circuit in the delay section and the diplexer and detector circuits and in the control logic section . The gain required can be tailored to individual applications but according to an embodiment a gain of about 80 dB is sufficient while maintaining receiver background noise at a minimum.

As stated above the transmitter section sends reply pulses to the antenna section . As outlined below the logic section controls the signals sent to the transmitter which also receives signals from the delay section . As shown the transmitter section includes a preamplifier a signal splitter power amplifiers and and variable RF attenuators and . As shown the transmitter section also includes a switch and a circulator . The power amplifier for low band and for high band are gated ON by signals from the logic microcontroller and driven by the preamplifier which may be a low power wideband amplifier and power splitter . Separate amplifiers and are necessary because the transistor technology is specific to the type of band received i.e. whether it is a high band or a low band. The attenuators and on the output allow the user to adjust the output power and hence the signal levels appearing at the antenna section to optimize the transponder response. Switch on the low band output is provided for mode control and directs the output to either the low band or the broadband antenna.

Regarding the delay section as stated above 50 of the output signal from the receiver section goes to the delay section as a delay section pulse. In the delay section the signal is initially received by a limiter then a RF fiber optic transmitter . As shown the delay section has a fiber optic cable spool the length of which determines the actual delay. The fiber optic cable spool is between the RF fiber optic transmitter and the RF fiber optic receiver . According to this embodiment the delay system is not frequency dependent as the RF fiber optic transmitter and the RF fiber optic receiver are rated for up to 18 GHz. The cable in the cable spool is made from a single mode fiber such as SMF 28 fiber for example. The single mode fiber along with other elements within the delay section such as the transmitter and fiber optic receiver facilitate the capability of working with bandwidths of up to 18 GHz. According to this embodiment the cable spool has a length that facilitates a delay of about 5 microseconds.

Within the delay section the RF fiber optic transmitter may use a high efficiency distributed feedback DFB laser diode with an operating wavelength of about 1559 nm. The RF pulses may be modulated onto the laser signal. According to this embodiment the laser provides the requisite amount of power to drive the fiber optic cable with low noise and high dynamic range. According to an embodiment of the invention the fiber optic cable in the spool has a length that is proportional to the delay may be a single mode fiber and may be about 1000 meters which provides about 5 seconds of delay. Single mode fibers eliminate phase noise caused by different path lengths of individual light rays in the more common multimode fiber. The RF fiber optic receiver may utilize a high speed low distortion PIN photo diode that provides optical to RF conversion for the delayed pulses. It should be noted that since the delay is not frequency dependent and any loss through the delay line is not delay dependent delays can be adjusted by adjusting the length of the lines fibers in the spool .

According to an embodiment of the invention the delay section may include one or more cable spools in a series circuit arrangement with a complementary fiber optic switching arrangement that connects the one or more cable spools if desired with the length of the delay dependent upon the number of cable spools that are switched on. is an exemplary schematic illustration of a multiple spooled delay section for manipulating the delay time according to an embodiment of the invention. shows the delay section having a plurality of spools . . . and an associated switching arrangement . As shown the switching arrangement may connect to one or more cable spools if desired with the length of the delay dependent upon the number of cable spools that are switched on Each spool . . . may have any desired length of cable. Thus spools may have equal or different lengths of cable. According to an embodiment of the invention the spools may be arranged physically in a parallel arrangement next to each other to minimize the amount of space occupied by the device.

It should be noted that the arrangement in may have any desired number of spools. Thus according to one embodiment the delay section includes a switching system and two cable spools of equal length cable. The switching system may activate one or both of the cable spools with both spools activated via the connection to double the delay time. According to an embodiment of the invention this switching may be performed manually. According to another this switching may be performed automatically.

Returning to and as outlined above the transponder also includes a control logic section having a microcontroller that is programmed to control the overall operation of the transponder . The microcontroller includes logic to control gate circuits to match the fiber optic delay according to a particular application. As outlined above the delay in the fiber optic spool is accurately known by the total fiber optic cable length. The microcontroller is then programmed to provide control to switch the switches either during the pulse transit time through the fiber optic cable or just before it exits. The controller controls receiver switch to block receiver pulses during transmission of transmitter pulses to eliminate self jamming ring around . On the transmit side the microcontroller exercises a gate control on the transmitters which applies bias power to the transmitter transistors only for the desired duration of the transmitter pulses. The microcontroller is compatible with each of the plurality of possible preset delay times outlined above. The microcontroller is also programmed to control the high power amplifiers and and receiver switch to control the blanking in the receiver section . It should be noted that the microcontroller does not control LNAs and which are class A amplifiers and thus voltage bias is continuously applied to their power inputs.

In operation the microcontroller detects when an incoming pulse is received and distinguishes via the diplexer whether the incoming pulse is within a high band or a low band frequency range. The microcontroller then initiates the appropriate high powered amplifier i.e. power amplifier for low band and for high band. The appropriate power amplifier or is only turned on for the duration of the pulse preventing unnecessary noise and energy losses. The microcontroller also blanks the receiving signal within the receiver section by switching switch from the rest of the receiver to a 50 ohm load. The receiver section is blanked immediately after the desired pulse is received. The receiver section remains blanked until the pulse travels thorough the fiber line for the preset delay time to the high power amplifier and and out the antenna section via antennas and or . The receiver blank is lifted only after the reply pulse is transmitted. This prevents noise feed through and ringing of the reply pulse from being amplified and fed back into the transponder . The high power amplifiers and are gated ON for the shortest time necessary to turn on the amplifier and transmit the delayed pulse. This prevents extra noise from being transmitted other than the desired return pulse and also to minimize the DC current draw of the amplifier.

As stated above the receiver section is blanked immediately after the desired pulse is received. According to an embodiment of the invention this desired pulse may be for example nominally between 0.2 and 2.5 microseconds in width. The timing of the receiver blanking pulse leading edge is set by the microcontroller and can be reprogrammed as desired. According to this embodiment with a maximum received pulse width of 2.5 microseconds the receiver blanking would be set to initiate between 2.5 and 3.0 microseconds and last until the transmitter pulse completely exits the antenna section . This setting provides ample time assuming a delay of 5 microseconds or greater is being used in the fiber optic delay cable . For shorter delays the maximum allowed impulse width would be correspondently shorter.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

