---

title: Method of recognizing situation requiring translation and performing translation function, and electronic device implementing the same
abstract: Disclosed are a method of recognizing a translation situation and performing a translation function, and an electronic device implementing the same. The electronic device recognizes a situation involving translation and automatically performs a translation function, thereby improving user convenience. An electronic device includes an audio module configured to receive and output audio signal, and a processor. A language translation program is executed in response to detecting that an audio signal received through the audio module includes at least a first language and a second language, a portion of the audio signal that is in the second language is translated into the first language, and the translated portion is outputted through the audio module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09460090&OS=09460090&RS=09460090
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09460090
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140731
---
This application claims priority from and the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of Korean Patent Application No. 10 2013 0138783 filed on Nov. 15 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein.

The present disclosure relates to a method of recognizing a situation involving translation and performing a translation function and an electronic device implementing the same.

Because of the rapid advancement electronic devices people use various electronic devices in their daily life. Particularly electronic devices are now able to recognize movements or motions of users and automatically perform a specific function. Further the electronic devices may response to commands generated via voice input as well as motion input. As described above technicians develop the electronic devices in order to make human s life more convenient and comfortable in various contexts. For example a user may utilize an electronic device as a translation tool in order to communicate with a foreigner. This is helpful as people frequently communicate with foreigners due to the advent of globalization. Recent electronic devices may thus include a function for translation. Language translation functions using the electronic device may be generally performed by a direct input movement of a user. For example the electronic device may perform a translation function by in response to physically receiving a click selection of a language translation button of the electronic device. This physical input based driving method may be substituted with a new driving method according to a developed function of the electronic device.

According to the rapid development of a technique electronic devices may recognize language and perform an operation for the corresponding language. Further the developed function of the electronic devices may increase the kind of language detectable by the electronic devices and further improve accuracy of the detection. Further the electronic devices may have various sensors. Accordingly in a case where a user makes a specific movement the electronic devices may perform a predetermined specific function based on the specific movement. For example the specific function may be a turn over function of a smart terminal. That is the specific function may be a scheme of executing the corresponding function when it is recognized that a screen is pointed down for a predetermined time or longer after a condition that the screen of the smart terminal is pointed up for a predetermined time or longer is satisfied. As described above the electronic device may detect a movement of the electronic device by comparing a current sensor value based on a previously defined sensor value.

That is the electronic device may measure sensor values by using various embedded sensors and perform a specific function according to a corresponding sensor value. Here the electronic device may pre define a sensor reference value for a specific movement compare a current sensor value of the electronic device and a reference value and determine whether the electronic device meets a specific movement condition.

A conventional electronic device requires a physical input operation in order to perform a function for translating a language. Accordingly a user may perform a physical operation for example a click of a translation button and the like and use a translation function whenever translating a language. A user may be inconvenienced and a considerable time may be wasted during the translation. The present disclosure enables an electronic device to provide contextual translation functionality by using various sensors and an audio codec.

For example when the electronic device recognizes voice data via a microphone and a speaker and two languages are detected the electronic device may automatically perform a translation function. Furthermore when a user executes a predetermined specific motion with the electronic device the electronic device may automatically execute a translation function. The movement may be detected and identified by comparing a predetermined sensor value and a current sensor value of for example a gyroscopic sensor . The present disclose thus provides a method of recognizing a contextual situations where translation is desired and automatically performing a translation function and an electronic device implementing the same.

In accordance with one aspect of the present disclosure a method of recognizing a situation requiring translation and performing a translation function by an electronic device is provided. The method includes executing a language translation program in response to detecting that an audio signal received via an audio module includes at least a first language and a second language and translating a portion of the audio signal that is in the second language into the first language and outputting the translated portion through the audio module.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure electronic device providing a translation function is provided. The device includes an audio module configured to receive and output audio signals and a processor configured to execute a language translation program in response to detecting that an audio signal received through the audio module includes at least a first language and a second language and translate a portion of the audio signal that is in the second language into the first language and outputting the translated portion through the audio module.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device for providing a translation function is disclosed including an audio module configured to receive and output audio signals a sensor module configured to detect movement of the electronic device and a processor configured to in response to receiving a first sensing value from the sensor module indicating that the electronic device has been moved to a vicinity of a user s mouth receive and translate an audio signal that is in a first language into a second language and in response to receiving a second sensing value from the sensor module indicating that the electronic device has been moved towards a second user output the translated audio signal from the audio module.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the method and the apparatus are capable of recognizing a context requiring translation by utilizing the various sensors and the audio codec and then automatically performing language translation.

Hereinafter various example embodiments will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. An example embodiment of the present disclosure is exemplified in the drawings and described in a relevant detailed description but may be variously modified and include various other example embodiments. However this is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the specific example embodiments and it will be appreciated that the present disclosure includes all modifications equivalences or substitutions included in the ambit of the present disclosure. In describing the drawings similar elements will be designated by similar reference numerals. Further in the following description of the present disclosure a detailed description of known functions and configurations incorporated herein will be omitted when it may make the subject matter of the present disclosure rather unclear. In the description below parts desirable for understanding operations according to various example embodiments of the present disclosure will be described and descriptions of other parts may be omitted so as to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the subject matter.

The expressions include may include and the like usable in an example embodiment of the present disclosure indicate existence of a disclosed corresponding function operation element and the like and do not limit additional one or more functions operations elements and the like. The terms such as include and or have may be construed to denote a certain characteristic number step operation constituent element component or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of addition of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations constituent elements components or combinations thereof.

Further in an example embodiment of the present disclosure the expressions and or and the like include any and all of the combinations of numerated words. For example the expression a and or b may mean that a is included b is included or both a and b are included.

Further in an example embodiment of the present disclosure the expressions a first a second the first and the second may modify various elements of the present disclosure but do not limit the corresponding elements. For example expressions do not limit a sequence and or importance of corresponding elements. Expressions may be used to discriminate one element from another element. For example a first user device and a second user device are user devices and indicate devices of different users. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be also termed a first element without departing from the ambit of the present disclosure.

In the case where a component is referred to as being connected or accessed to other component it should be understood that the component may not be directly connected or accessed to the other component but also there may exist another component between them. Meanwhile in the case where a component is referred to as being directly connected or directly accessed to other component it should be understood that there is no component therebetween. Terms used in the present application are used to describe specific example embodiments and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

An electronic device according to the present disclosure may be a device including a communication function. For example the electronic device may be one among various devices such as a smart phone a tablet Personal computer PC a mobile phone a video phone a e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a net book computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory a camera a wearable device an electronic clock a wrist watch a home appliance for example a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine and an air cleaner an artificial intelligence robot a TV a digital video disk DVD player an audio player various medical devices for example Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT a photographing device and an ultrasonic device a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a set top box a TV box for example Samsung homeSync Apple TV or Google TV an electronic dictionary a vehicle infotainment device electronic equipment for ship for example a navigation device for ship and gyrocompass an air electronic device avionics a security device electronic clothes an electronic key a camcorder a game console a Head Mounted Display HMD a flat panel display device an electronic frame an electronic album furniture or a part of a building structure including a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device and a projector or a combination of thereof. The electronic device may embed at least one processor capable of performing a language translation function. Further the electronic device may embed a module capable of outputting a translation result. The electronic device may include a speaker module capable of outputting the result value with a voice and a display module capable of outputting the result value with a text. It is apparent to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Hereinafter example embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.

In describing the example embodiments technical contents according to an example embodiment of the present disclosure are well known in the technical field and a description of a technology directly irrelevant to the example embodiment of the present disclosure will be omitted. Moreover detailed descriptions related to configuration elements having substantially identical configurations and functions will be omitted.

For the same reason in the accompanying drawings some configuration elements may be exaggerated omitted or schematically shown and a size of each element may not precisely reflect the actual size. Accordingly the present disclosure is not limited by a relative size or interval illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

Referring to an electronic device may include a bus a main processor a sub processor a memory a user input module a display module a communication module or a sensor module . The constituent elements of the electronic device according to the example embodiment of the present disclosure illustrated in are not essential so that the electronic device may be implemented with more constituent elements or fewer constituent elements. For example when the electronic device supports a photographing function the electronic device may further include a configuration of a camera module and when the electronic device does not support a broadcasting receiving function some elements for example a broadcasting receiving module of the wireless communication unit may be omitted.

The bus may be a circuit connecting the aforementioned constituent elements to each other and transmitting communication for example a control message between the aforementioned constituent elements.

For example the main processor may receive instructions from aforementioned other constituent elements for example the sub processor the memory the user input module the display module and the communication module through the bus decipher the received instruction and perform calculation or data processing according to the deciphered instruction.

Further the sub processor may be formed of a low power processor and may be formed in one chip with the main processor or in a form of a separate chip. Further the sub processor may include a buffer or stack type memory therein and may compare a sensor signal received from the sensor module and pre stored specific pattern information and provide a signal for an operation to the main processor . Further the main processor may activate a specific program by a physical key input through the user input module .

The memory may store an instruction or data received from the main processor or other constituent elements for example the user input module the display module and the communication module or generated by the main processor or other constituent elements. The memory may include programming modules for example a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API or an application . The aforementioned respective programming modules may be formed of software firmware or hardware or a combination of at least two of software firmware and hardware.

The kernel may control or manage system resources for example the bus the main processor or the memory used for executing an operation or a function implemented in the remaining programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Further the kernel may provide an interface through which the middleware the API or the application may access and control or manage an individual constituent element of the electronic device .

The middleware may serve as an intermediary so that the API or the application may transceive data while communicating with the kernel . Further in relation to work requests received from the plurality of applications the middleware may perform load balancing on the work requests by using for example a method of assigning a priority for using the system resource for example the bus the main processor or the memory of the electronic device to at least one application among the plurality of applications .

The API is an interface through which the application may control a function provided from the kernel or the middleware and may include at least one interface or function for example file control window control image processing or character control.

The user input module may for example receive an instruction or data from a user and transmit the received instruction or data to the main processor or the memory through the bus . The display module may display an image a video or data to the user.

The communication module may connect communication between another electronic device and the electronic device . The communication module may support a predetermined near field communication protocol for example Wireless Fidelity WiFi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC or predetermined network communication for example Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network or a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS . Each of the electronic devices and may be the same as for example the same type or different for example a different type from the electronic device .

The sensor module may include various sensors such as a gyro sensor a gesture sensor a grip sensor an acceleration sensor. The sensor module may provide the sub processor with information collected by each of the sensors in the unit of a predetermined time.

The hardware may be for example the electronic device illustrated in . Referring to the hardware may include one or more processors a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a communication module a sensor module a user input module a display module an interface an audio codec a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator or a motor .

The processor for example the main processor may include one or more Application Processors AP one or more Communication Processors CP or a low power sub processor . The processor may be for example the main processor illustrated in . It is illustrated in that the AP the CP and the low power sub processor are included in the processor but the AP the CP and the low power sub processor may be included in different IC packages respectively. In one example embodiment the AP the CP and the low power sub processor may be included in one IC package.

The AP may control a plurality of hardware or software elements connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and perform processing and calculation on various data including multimedia data. The AP may be implemented as for example a System on Chip SoC . According to one example embodiment the processor may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The CP may perform a function of managing a data link in communication between the electronic device for example the electronic device including the hardware and another electronic device connected through the network and converting a communication protocol. The CP may be implemented for example a SoC. According to one example embodiment the CP may perform at least a part of a multimedia control function. The CP may perform discrimination and authentication of a terminal within a communication network by using for example a subscriber identification module for example the SIM card . Further the CP may provide the user with services such as voice call video call a text message or packet data.

Further the CP may control data transception of the communication module . It is illustrated in that the constituent elements such as the CP the power management module or the memory are separate from the AP but according to one example embodiment the AP may be implemented so as to include at least a part for example the CP of the aforementioned constituent elements.

According to one example embodiment the AP or the CP may load an instruction or data received from a nonvolatile memory connected to the AP or the CP or at least one of other constituent elements in a volatile memory and process the instruction or the data. Further the AP or the CP may store data received from at least one of other constituent elements or generated by at least one of other constituent elements in the nonvolatile memory.

Further the low power sub processor may receive a signal from the sensor module and perform a specific operation without performing a sleep mode even in a case where the AP or the CP of the processor is in the sleep mode. When a signal is received from the sensor module the low power sub processor may determine whether the signal utilizes a predetermined determination compare the signal with a pattern stored in an internal memory of the low power sub processor or the memory when the determination is desired and notify the AP of a necessity of driving when it is desirable to drive the AP to make the AP wake up from the sleep mode and perform another operation.

The SIM card may be a card implementing a subscriber identification module and may be inserted into a slot formed at a specific position of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information for example an Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCID or International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The memory may be for example the memory illustrated in . The internal memory may include at least one among for example a volatile memory for example a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM and a Synchronous DRAM SDRAM and a nonvolatile memory for example a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory and a NOR flash memory . According to one example embodiment the internal memory may also have a type of a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example Compact Flash CF Secure Digital SD Micro Secure Digital Micro SD Mini Secure Digital mini SD extreme Digital xD or a memory stick.

The communication module may include a wireless communication module or an RF module . The communication module may be for example the communication module illustrated in . The wireless communication module may include for example the WiFi the BT the GPS or the NFC . For example the wireless communication module may provide a wireless communication function by using a wireless frequency. In addition or in general the wireless communication module may include a network interface for example a LAN card or a modem for connecting the hardware with a network for example the Internet the Local Area Network LAN the Wide Area Network WAN the telecommunication network the cellular network the satellite network or the Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

The RF module may serve to transceive data for example an RF signal or a called electronic signal. Although the RF module is not illustrated the RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter or a Low Noise Amplifier LNA . Further the RF module may further include a component such as a conductor or a conductive line for transceiving electromagnetic waves in a free space in wireless communication.

The sensor module may include at least one of for example a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an air pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a Red Green Blue RGB sensor H a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illuminance sensor K or an Ultra Violet UV sensor M. The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation state of the electronic device and convert the measured or detected information into an electrical signal. In addition general the sensor module may include for example an E nose sensor not shown an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor not shown an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor not shown an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor not shown or a fingerprint sensor. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included therein.

The user input module may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic wave input device . The user input module may be for example the user input module illustrated in . The touch panel may recognize a touch input by at least one method of for example a capacitive method a resistive method an infrared ray method and an ultrasonic wave method. Further the touch panel may further include a controller not shown . In a case of the capacitive method the touch panel may recognize a proximity touch as well as a direct touch. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide the user with a tactile response.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented by a method identical or similar to the reception of a touch input of the user or by using a separate sheet for recognition. The key may adopt for example a keypad or a touch key. The ultrasonic wave input device is a device capable of detecting sound waves through a microphone for example the microphone in a terminal through a pen generating an ultrasonic wave signal and identifying data and may perform wireless recognition. According to one example embodiment the hardware may receive a user input from an external device for example a network a computer or a server connected with the communication module through the communication module .

The display module may include a panel or a hologram . The display module may be for example the display module illustrated in . The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED . The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be formed in one module with the touch panel . The hologram may show a 3D image in the air by using interference of light. According to one example embodiment the display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel or the hologram .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB a projector or a D subminiature D sub . In addition or in general the interface may include for example Secure Digital  SD    Card MMC not shown or Infrared Data Association IrDA not shown .

The audio codec may bilaterally convert a voice and an electrical signal. The audio codec may convert voice information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver an earphone or a microphone . According to the example embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may confirm that the number of languages is two or more based on voice information about a first user using a first language preset by the user and a second user using a second language. When the number of languages received from the audio codec is two or more the processor may execute a language translation program and application and translate the second language to the first language to output the translated first language. Further when the number of languages received from the audio codec is three or more the processor may set the second language according to a specific condition for example a language having a largest ratio within a predetermined time by using an audio module.

The camera module is a device capable of photographing an image and a video and according to one example embodiment may include one or more image sensors for example a front lens or a rear lens an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown or a flash LED not shown .

The power management module may manage power of the hardware . Although it is not illustrated the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted within for example an integrated circuit or a SoC semiconductor. A charging manner may be divided into a wired manner or a wireless manner. The charger IC may charge the battery and prevent an inflow of overvoltage or overcurrent from a charger. According to one example embodiment the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of a wired charging manner or a wireless charging manner. The wireless charging manner may include for example a magnetic resonance manner a magnetic induction manner or an electromagnetic wave manner and may additionally include an additional circuit for wireless charging for example a coil loop a resonant circuit and a rectifier.

The battery fuel gauge may measure for example a residual quantity a voltage during charging a current or a temperature of the battery . The battery may generate electricity and supply a power source and may be for example a rechargeable battery.

The indicator may display a specific state for example a booting state a message state or a charging state of the hardware or a part of the hardware for example the AP . The motor may convert an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration. The MCU may control the sensor module .

Although it is not illustrated the hardware may include a processing device for example the GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing device for supporting the mobile TV may process media data according to a standard of for example Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB or multimedia flow. In the example embodiment according to the present disclosure each of the aforementioned constituent elements of the hardware may be formed of one or more components and a name of a corresponding constituent element may be changed according to the kind of electronic device. In the example embodiment according to the present disclosure the hardware may be formed of at least one among the aforementioned constituent elements and some constituent elements may be omitted or other additional constituent elements may be included in the hardware. Further in the example embodiment according to the present disclosure some of the constituent elements of the hardware are combined to form one entity so that the functions of the corresponding constituent elements before the combination may be equally performed.

A term module used in the example embodiment according to the present disclosure may mean for example a unit including one or a combination of two or more of hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeably used with a term such as a unit logic a logical block a component or a circuit. The module may be a minimum unit or a part of an integrally formed component. The module may be a minimum unit performing one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example in the example embodiment according to the present disclosure the module may include at least one of an already known or to be developed Application Specific integrated Circuit ASIC chip Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs or a programmable logic device performing certain operations.

The programming module may be included for example stored in the electronic device for example the memory illustrated in . At least a part of the programming module may be formed of software firmware or hardware or a combination of two or more of software firmware and hardware. The programming module may include an Operating System OS implemented in the hardware for example the hardware to control a resource related to the electronic device for example the electronic device or various applications for example an application driven on the operating system. For example the OS may be Android iOS Windows Symbian Tizen or Bada. Referring to the programming module may include a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API or the application .

The kernel for example the kernel may include a system resource manager or a device driver . The system resource manager may include for example a process manager a memory manager or a file system manager. The system resource manager may perform control allocation or collection of a system resource. The device driver may include for example a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a shared memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a WiFi driver or an audio driver. Further according to one example embodiment the device driver may include an Inter Process communication IPC driver not shown .

The middleware may include a plurality of modules pre implemented in order to provide a function commonly utilized by the application . Further the middleware may provide a function through the API so as for the application to efficiently use a limited system resource inside the electronic device. For example as illustrated in the middleware for example the middleware may include at least one of a run time library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager or a security manager .

The run time library may include for example a library module used by a compiler in order to add a new function through a programming language during the execution of the application . According to one example embodiment the run time library may perform a function for input output memory management or a calculation function.

The application manager may manage for example a life cycle of at least one application in the application . The window manager may manage a GUI resource used in a screen. The multimedia manager may recognize a format desirable for reproducing various media files and perform encoding or decoding of a media file by using a codec appropriate to a corresponding format. The resource manager may manage a resource such as a source code a memory or a storage space of at least one application in the application .

The power manager may be operated together with a Basic Input Output System BIOS and the like to manage a battery or a power and provide power information desirable for the operation. The database manager may manage the database so as to generate search or change a database to be used in at least one application in the application . The package manager may manage installation or update of an application distributed in a form of a package file.

The connectivity manager may manage wireless connection such as WiFi or Bluetooth. The notification manager may display or notify an event such as an arrival message an appointment or proximity notification to the user in a non disturbed manner. The location manager may manage location information about the electronic device. The graphic manager may manage a graphic effect to be provided to the user or a user interface related to the graphic effect. The security manager may provide a general security function desirable for system security or user authentication. According to one example embodiment in a case where the electronic device for example the electronic device includes a call function the middleware may further include a telephony manager not shown for managing a voice or video call function of the electronic device.

The middleware may generate a new middleware module through a combination of various functions of the aforementioned internal constituent element modules and use the generated new middleware module. The middleware may provide a module specialized for each type of the OS in order to provide a differentiated function. Further some of existing constituent elements may be dynamically deleted or new constituent elements may be added to the middleware . Accordingly some of the constituent elements described in the example embodiment of the present disclosure may be omitted other constituent elements may be further included or the constituent element may be substituted with a constituent element performing a similar function but having a different name.

The API for example the API is a set of API programming functions and may be provided with different configurations according to the OS. For example in a case of the Android or iOS one API set may be provided for each platform and in a case of the Tizen two or more API sets may be provided.

The application for example the application may include for example a preloaded application or the third party application.

At least a part of the programming module may be implemented by an instruction stored in a computer readable storage media. In a case where the instruction is executed by one or more processors for example the processor the one or more processors may perform a function corresponding to the instruction. The computer readable storage media may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented for example executed by for example the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions and or a process for performing one or more functions.

In the example embodiment of the present disclosure names of the constituent elements of the programming module for example the programming module may be changed according to the type of OS. In the example embodiment of the present disclosure the programming module may include at least one of the aforementioned constituent elements some of the aforementioned constituent elements may be omitted or the programming module may further include other additional constituent elements. In the example embodiment of the present disclosure the programming module or operations performed by other constituent elements may be processed by a sequential parallel repeated or heuristic method and further some operations may be omitted or another operation may be added.

Referring to in operation the processor may maintain a standby state awaiting signals from the user input module the audio codec the communication module and the sensor module to initiate a language translation function. The signal may be generated when the user input module may detects a physical key input by the user when the audio codec receives voice inputs of two users converts the inputs into an electrical signal and transmits the information to the processor or when the sensor module measures values received from the respective sensors and transmits the measured sensing values to the processor . After the standby state is existed the processor may receive audio input from the audio codec corresponding to a conversation between at least two users using a first language and a second language.

In operation after the standby state is exited the processor may determine whether the first language and the second language are identified in a received audio signal. The processor may be configured to translate the second language into the first language. Here the first language may be preset by the user if for example the user uses the first language often. Further the processor may also set a language occupying the largest ratio among languages for a predetermined time i.e. a commonly used language as the second language. Further the user may arbitrarily set the second language i.e. manual selection . When the processor determines that the first language and the second language have not been identified in operation the processor returns to the standby state.

In operation when the processor determines that the first language and the second language have been detected in operation the processor identifies an execution state of a translation function program such as for example a language translation program . That is in a case where the number of languages received from the audio codec is two or more the processor may identify the execution state of the language translation program. Here the translation function program is a program that performs translation and thus may be an application e.g. from stored in the memory .

In operation when the translation function program executing including execution states occurring in the background the processor may activate the translation function program to bring it to the foreground. In operation when the translation function program is not in the execution state in operation the processor may execute the translation function program. Subsequently the processor may activate the translation function program as depicted in operation . Accordingly the translation function program may be executed or activated in response to detection of identification of at least two languages in the received audio signal.

In operation the processor may configure basic settings for translating the language setting the first language and the second language to indicate translation of the second language into the first language. Here the user may designate the first language and the second language. For example the processor may set a language pre configured by the user to be the first language for example Korean and set another language received from the audio codec as the second language for example English configuring the processor to translate the second language Korean into the first language English . Further when a plurality of languages except for the first language are detected by the audio codec the processor may set a language occupying the largest ratio for a predetermined time i.e. the most commonly heard language within a set time limit among the detected languages to be the second language. Further the user may arbitrarily set a language to be the second language to indicate desired translation of the second language into the first language.

Referring now to after configuring the basic settings in operation the processor may execute a trigger operation for translation processing. The processor repeatedly performs operation until the trigger operation for the translation processing is completed in operation .

In operation after the trigger operation is completed the processor may recognize a translation target sentence. The processor may continuously recognize a translation target sentence in operation until the translation target sentence is completed in operation . In operation if the translation target sentence is excessively long or speech is continued without discontinuation in operation the processor may directly translation process the translation target sentence when a predetermined time elapses from a time at which the processor recognizes the translation target sentence. Here the predetermined time may be a pre defined time in the program.

In operation when the processor identifies that the translation target sentence is completed in operation the processor may translation process the translation target sentence and obtain a result value of the translation in operation .

In operation the processor may identify a location of the electronic device by using the communication module and the sensor module in operation . For example the processor may identify whether the location of the electronic device is outdoors by using a satellite GPS of the communication module or through location information through the communication module and an Access Point AP inside a building.

In operation if it is identified that the electronic device is not located outdoors in operation the processor may output a result value in a form of a text through the display module in operation . After outputting the result value in the form of the text the processor re performs the trigger operation for the translation processing that is operation .

In operation if it is identified that the electronic device is located outdoors in operation the processor may output a result value with a voice through the speaker in operation . After outputting the result value with the voice the processor re performs the trigger operation for the translation processing that is operation .

In operation after completion of the trigger operation that is operation if the processor does not recognize a translation target sentence in operation then in operation the processor may identify whether a predetermined time has elapsed from the time at which the processor recognizes the translation target sentence. The processor may continuously recognize the translation target sentence until the predetermined time elapses in operation . When the predetermined time elapses in operation the processor may deactivate the translation program and terminate the translation process in operation .

Referring to the processor may maintain a standby state in operation . Here the standby state may refer to a preparatory state before the processor receives a signal. After receiving a relevant signal initiating the translation operation then in operation the processor may detect at least two spoken languages through the audio codec and identify the first language and the second language. The processor may be configured to translate the second language into the first language. Here the first language may be a language pre set by the user. Further the user may also set as the second language a language occupying the largest ratio for language detection values measured for a predetermined time i.e. a most frequently utilized language . Alternatively the user may arbitrarily set the second language via for example manual configuration . If the processor fails to identify detection of the first language and the second language in operation the processor returns to the standby state.

In operation if the processor successfully identifies the first and second language then the processor may identify an execution state of a translation function program.

In cases where the translation function program is executing including states where it is executing in the background then in operation the processor may activate the translation function program bringing it for example to the foreground.

In cases where the translation function program is not executing then in operation the processor may execute the translation function program and then activate the translation function program in operation as above.

In operation the processor may configure basic settings for translating the language. The processor may set the first language and the second language. Here the user may input the settings of the first language and the second language. For example the user may manually pre set a language as the first language and another language as the second language configuring the processor to translate the second language into the first language. In another case where a plurality of languages is detected by the audio codec the processor may set a language occupying the largest ratio for a predetermined time i.e. a most commonly heard language within a set amount of time as the second language. Further the user may set a language arbitrarily i.e. manually as the second language configuring the processor to translate the second language into the first language. As described above the processor may configure the setting of the first language and the second language by various methods.

Referring to in operation after configuring the basic settings for translation the processor may execute a trigger operation for translation processing. The processor repeatedly performs operation until the trigger operation for the translation processing is completed in operation .

In operation when the trigger operation is completed the processor may recognize a translation target sentence. The processor may continuously recognize a translation target sentence in operation until in operation the translation target sentence is completed.

In operation if the translation target sentence is excessively long or speech continues without discontinuation the processor may directly translation process the translation target sentence when a predetermined time elapses from a time at which the processor recognized the start of the target sentence. Here the predetermined time may be a pre defined time in the program.

If the processor identifies that the translation target sentence is completed in operation then in operation the processor may translation process the translation target sentence and obtain a result value of the translation.

In operation the processor may identify whether the electronic device is connected with a terminal of the other user. Here the connection between the electronic device and the terminal of the other user means a state in which data may be transmitted received such as connection of the program or connection through the communication module .

If it is determined that the electronic device is connected with the terminal of the other user then in operation the processor may convert the result value into a text and transmit the text to the terminal of the other user in operation .

If it is determined that the electronic device is not connected with the terminal of the other user then in operation the processor may execute a program connectable for transceiving data between the electronic device and the terminal of the other user. The connectable program may be the application of stored in the memory . After executing the program the processor may convert the obtained result value into the text and transmit the text to the terminal of the other user in operation . The terminal of the other user may output the received information with the text.

After transmitting the result value the processor may re perform the trigger operation for the translation processing that is operation . After performing the trigger operation that is operation the processor may fail to recognize the translation target sentence in operation in which case the processor may identify whether a predetermined time has elapsed from the time at which the processor recognized the translation target sentence in operation . The processor may continuously recognize the translation target sentence until the predetermined time elapses in operation .

When the predetermined time elapses in operation the processor may deactivate the translation program and terminate a translation process in operation .

Thus when the processor detects two or more languages the processor may automatically execute a language translation function program or application. The processor may set a first language and a second language based on the detected languages. For example the processor may utilize a language pre set by the user for the first language and set another language received from the audio codec as the second language thereby resulting in a configuration capable of translating the second language into the first language. Further in a case where a plurality of languages is detected by the audio codec the processor may set a language occupying the largest ratio for a predetermined time as the second language. Further the user may set a language arbitrarily set by the user as the second language and translate the second language into the first language. For example when the electronic device detects the German language which is the language of the user and French which is the language of the other user the processor of the electronic device may actively execute the translation function program to perform translation processing. In this case the setting of the first language and the second language may be variously set according to the aforementioned methodology.

A user may be communicating with the other user outdoors. The processor may identify a location of an electronic device by using the communication module and the sensor module . For example the electronic device may use the GPS of the communication module . Further although not illustrated the processor may identify a location of the electronic device by using an Access Point AP inside a building. Further when the sensor module is used the sensor module being for example the temperature humidity sensor J the illuminance sensor K and the UV sensor M the accuracy of the identification of the location of the electronic device by the processor may be improved. As described above when the processor identifies that the location of the electronic device is outdoors the processor converts a result value of the translation into an audible voice output and outputs the voice through the speaker .

In operation the standby state may be interrupted by the generation of a signal. The signal may be generated by a variety of means or a combination of means. For example the processor may recognize a motion of a user through the sensor module in operation . The electronic device may recognize the motion of the user and the processor may execute a program according to the corresponding motion. The processor may identify a sensing value for a motion of moving the electronic device to the vicinity of the mouth by the user in operation . Here the motion of moving the electronic device to the vicinity of the mouth may be defined as a first motion. Further a sensing value for a motion of the user may be pre stored in the memory by using the sensor module for example the gesture sensor the gyro sensor the acceleration sensor the temperature humidity sensor and the illuminance sensor . The processor may identify the motion of the user by comparing the sensing value pre stored in the memory and the sensing value received from the sensor module. Accordingly the processor may also execute a set program.

When the processor fails to detect the first motion where the electronic device is moved to the vicinity of the mouth in operation the processor may continuously maintain the standby state.

When the processor identifies the motion moving the electronic device to the vicinity of the mouth then in operation the processor may identify an execution state of the translation function program.

In operation if the translation function program is executing in operation the processor may activate the executing translation function program.

In operation if the translation function program is not executing in operation the processor may execute the translation function program in operation and activate the translation function program in operation .

After the translation function program is activated in operation then in operation the processor may configure basic settings for translation processing in operation . The processor may set the first language and the second language thus being configured to translate the first language into the second language or the second language into the first language. Here the first language and the second language may be set by various methods by the user. For example the processor may set a language pre set by the user in the electronic device as the first language and set another language detected by the audio codec as the second language. Further the user may set arbitrarily determined languages as the first language and the second language and translate the language.

After the processor configures basic settings in operation then in operation the processor may perform a trigger operation for the translation processing. The processor repeatedly performs operation until the trigger operation for the translation processing is completed.

In operation when the trigger operation is completed the processor may recognize a translation target sentence through the audio codec . The processor may continuously and repeatedly perform operation and operation until the processor recognizes the translation target sentence in operation .

In operation if the processor identifies that the translation target sentence is completed then in operation the processor may translate the translation target sentence and obtain a result value of the translation.

After obtaining the result value in operation then in operation the processor may identify whether a predetermined time elapses from a time at which the result value is obtained.

In operation if the predetermined time does not elapse in operation the processor may identify a sensing value for a motion of making the electronic device head toward the other user by using the sensor module . That is the processor may identify a movement of the electronic device by comparing the sensing value pre stored in the memory and the sensing value received from the sensor module . For example the movement of the electronic device may be displacing towards the other user. Here the displacement of the electronic device head towards the other user may be defined as a second motion. In operation the processor may identify whether displacement of the electronic device head towards the other user is sensed before lapse of the predetermined time of operation .

If the processor determines that the predetermined time lapsed in operation the processor may re execute the trigger operation for the translation processing of operation .

If the processor displacement of the electronic device towards the other user in operation then in operation the processor may output a result value and return to the trigger operation for the translation processing of operation .

If the processor sets a sensing value in connection with a specific motion in operation the processor may also output a result value for a corresponding operation. That is the processor may also variously set a condition under which a result value is output. Further the processor may determine the location of the electronic device as indoors or outdoors in operation and change an output method. Further the processor may change the output method according to various conditions as well as the determination of the location of the electronic device as indoors or outdoors. After the processor performs the trigger operation for the translation processing in operation the processor may recognize the translation target sentence in operation .

In operation if the predetermined time lapses and the processor has failed to recognize the translation target sentence as in operation then in operation the processor may deactivate the translation function program. If the processor deactivates the translation function program in operation the processor may terminate the translation operation.

For example the processor may detect a specific motion of displacement of the electronic device to the vicinity of the mouth of the user through the sensor module including for example the gesture sensor the gyro sensor the acceleration sensor the temperature humidity sensor and the illuminance sensor . Here the processor may define the motion of moving the electronic device to the vicinity of the mouth of the user as a first motion.

The processor may also execute the program based on the motion of the user by various methods through the comparison of the sensing values. The processor of the electronic device may receive a language of the user from the audio codec and translate the received language.

Further the processor of the electronic device may identify a second motion of the electronic device based on the aforementioned two sensing values. Here the second motion of the electronic device may be displacement of the electronic device towards the other user. When the processor of the electronic device identifies the second motion of the electronic device the processor may output a result of the translation processing.

The above described embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented in hardware firmware or via the execution of software or computer code that can be stored in a recording medium such as a CD ROM a Digital Versatile Disc DVD a magnetic tape a RAM a floppy disk a hard disk or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and to be stored on a local recording medium so that the methods described herein can be rendered via such software that is stored on the recording medium using a general purpose computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein.

Any of the functions and steps provided in the Figures may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of both and may be performed in whole or in part within the programmed instructions of a computer. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for .

The functions and process steps herein may be performed automatically or wholly or partially in response to user command. An activity including a step performed automatically is performed in response to executable instruction or device operation without user direct initiation of the activity.

The terms unit or module or codec referred to herein is to be understood as comprising hardware such as a processor or microprocessor configured for a certain desired functionality or a non transitory medium comprising machine executable code in accordance with statutory subject matter under 35 U.S.C. 101 and does not constitute software per se.

