---

title: Fluid flow back prediction
abstract: A computing device configured to determine when an alarm is triggered for a drilling operation is provided. Measured drilling data that includes a value measured for an input variable during a previous connection event of a drilling operation is received. A predicted value for a fluid flow back measure is determined by executing a predictive model with the measured drilling data as an input. The predictive model is determined using previous drilling data that includes a plurality of values measured for the input variable during a second drilling operation. The second drilling operation is a previous drilling operation at a different geographic wellbore location than the drilling operation. A fluid flow back measurement datum determined from sensor data is compared to the determined predicted value for the fluid flow back measure. An alarm is triggered on the drilling operation based on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09163497&OS=09163497&RS=09163497
owner: SAS Institute Inc.
number: 09163497
owner_city: Cary
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141020
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority of 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 893 938 filed on Oct. 22 2013 the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Drilling holes of all types and sizes for various industries water natural gas oil construction telecommunications electric etc. in various environments land frozen land seabed deep seabed etc. can be a complex expensive and risky process. While drilling in soft geology fluid that is circulated throughout a wellbore annulus creates friction pressure in addition to a hydrostatic pressure of the fluid against vertical depth. These pressures cause variance in an effect known as fluid flow back that is experienced during pumps off or during connection periods as part of the drilling process. The effect is that as the geology swells back into shape the fluid in the wellbore is pushed back to the surface causing flow back to surface equipment and monitoring systems. The effect is similar that seen when a wellbore is suffering from fluid influx which is a precursor to a wellbore kick. Wellbore kicks can be catastrophic if they are not diagnosed early and properly responded to by the drilling program.

In an example embodiment a method of determining when an alarm is triggered for a drilling operation is provided. Measured drilling data that includes a value measured for an input variable during a previous connection event of a drilling operation is received. A predicted value for a fluid flow back measure is determined by executing a predictive model with the measured drilling data as an input. The predictive model is determined using previous drilling data that includes a plurality of values measured for the input variable during a second drilling operation. The second drilling operation is a previous drilling operation at a different geographic wellbore location than the drilling operation. A fluid flow back measurement datum is received. The fluid flow back measurement datum is determined from sensor data generated by a sensor used as part of the drilling operation. The received fluid flow back measurement datum is compared to the determined predicted value for the fluid flow back measure. An alarm is triggered on the drilling operation based on the comparison

In another example embodiment a computer readable medium is provided having stored thereon computer readable instructions that when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform the method of determining when an alarm is triggered for a drilling operation.

In yet another example embodiment a computing device is provided. The computing device includes but is not limited to a processor and a computer readable medium operably coupled to the processor. The computer readable medium has instructions stored thereon that when executed by the computing device cause the computing device to perform the method of determining when an alarm is triggered for a drilling operation.

The instructions or the method can include receiving the previous drilling data and determining the predictive model using the received previous drilling data.

The predictive model can be determined using a neural network model. The predictive model can be determined using a decision tree model. The predictive model can be determined based on a correlation between the input variable and the fluid flow back measure identified in the received previous drilling data.

The input variable can be selected from a group comprising a flow in rate variable a flow out rate variable a surface pressure variable a downhole pressure variable a differential pressure variable a bit diameter variable a fluid temperature variable a fluid density variable a fluid tank volume variable a mud rheology property variable a rate of penetration variable a torque variable a drill pipe rotation speed variable and a drill bit rotation speed variable.

The fluid flow back measure can be selected from a group comprising a flow back pressure a flow back flow rate and a flow back volume.

The sensor can be selected from a group comprising a flow back pressure sensor a flow back flow rate sensor and a flow back volume sensor.

Determining the predictive model can include defining a training dataset as a first portion of the received previous drilling data defining a validation dataset as a second portion of the received previous drilling data defining a first predictive model configuration training a first predictive model using the defined training dataset based on the defined first predictive model configuration predicting model output data with the defined validation dataset as an input to the trained first predictive model comparing the predicted model output data to output data of the validation dataset and determining a first validity score for the trained first predictive model based on comparing the predicted model output data to output data of the validation dataset.

Determining the predictive model can further include defining a second predictive model configuration training a second predictive model using the defined training dataset based on the defined second predictive model configuration predicting second model output data with the defined validation dataset as an input to the trained second predictive model comparing the predicted second model output data to the output data of the validation dataset and determining a second validity score for the trained second predictive model based on comparing the predicted second model output data to the output data of the validation dataset.

The predictive model can be determined as the trained first predictive model or the trained second predictive model based on a comparison between the determined first validity score and the determined second validity score.

The instructions or the method can further select the predictive model based on a geological indicator.

The instructions or the method can further change the predictive model based on a geological indicator associated with the received fluid flow back measurement datum.

The alarm can be triggered when the received fluid flow back measurement datum is greater than P PC 2 where Pis the determined predicted value for the fluid flow back measure and Cis a numeric value of a confidence level.

The confidence level can indicate a certainty that the received fluid flow back measurement datum falls within an expected variability of the determined predicted value for the fluid flow back measure.

The instructions or the method can further determine an acceptable fluid flow back band wherein a maximum point of the acceptable fluid flow back band is defined as P PC 2 and a minimum point of the acceptable fluid flow back band is defined as P PC 2 where Pis the determined predicted value for the fluid flow back measure and Cis a numeric value of a confidence level.

The alarm can be triggered when the received fluid flow back measurement datum is greater than the maximum point of the acceptable fluid flow back band or when the received fluid flow back measurement datum is less than the minimum point of the acceptable fluid flow back band.

The alarm can be triggered by a display device presentation of a dial that indicates the received fluid flow back measurement datum an acceptable fluid flow back region a greater than acceptable fluid flow back region and a less than acceptable fluid flow back region.

Other principal features of the disclosed subject matter will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the following drawings the detailed description and the appended claims.

Referring to a block diagram of a drilling data gathering system is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Drilling data gathering system may include a plurality of drilling rigs a network and a data warehouse . Fewer different and or additional components may be incorporated into drilling data gathering system . For illustration the plurality of drilling rigs may include a first drilling rig a second drilling rig a third drilling rig a fourth drilling rig . The plurality of drilling rigs may include any number of drilling rigs. A drilling rig of the plurality of drilling rigs may be active or inactive. The plurality of drilling rigs may be configured to drill holes of any type and size for various industries e.g. water natural gas oil construction telecommunications electric etc. in various environments e.g. land frozen land seabed deep seabed etc. . The plurality of drilling rigs may be distributed locally regionally or globally.

Network may include one or more networks of the same or different types. Network can be any type or combination of wired and or wireless public or private network including a cellular network a local area network a wide area network such as the Internet etc. Network further may comprise sub networks and consist of any number of devices. The plurality of drilling rigs send communications through network to data warehouse . The plurality of drilling rigs may communicate using various transmission media that may be wired and or wireless as understood by those skilled in the art.

Data warehouse stores drilling data from the plurality of drilling rigs that includes a plurality of values measured for each of a plurality of drilling variables during a hole or well drilling operation including during a connection event. For example a connection event may be associated with connection of a new section of standpipe. The plurality of values may be measured for each of the plurality of drilling variables at a plurality of time points during a time period. For example the plurality of values may be measured for each of the plurality of drilling variables each second for a thirty day time period though other time period lengths and measurement intervals may be used.

Referring to a block diagram of a model definition device is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Model definition device may be located on a drilling rig of the plurality of drilling rigs or remote from the plurality of drilling rigs . Model definition device may include an input interface an output interface a communication interface a computer readable medium a processor a model definition application data warehouse and a predictive model . Fewer different and or additional components may be incorporated into model definition device .

Input interface provides an interface for receiving information from the user for entry into model definition device as understood by those skilled in the art. Input interface may interface with various input technologies including but not limited to a keyboard a mouse a microphone a display a track ball a keypad one or more buttons etc. to allow the user to enter information into model definition device or to make selections presented in a user interface displayed on the display. The same interface may support both input interface and output interface . For example display comprising a touch screen provides user input and presents output to the user. Model definition device may have one or more input interfaces that use the same or a different input interface technology. The input interface technology further may be accessible by model definition device through communication interface .

Output interface provides an interface for outputting information for review by a user of model definition device and or for use by another application. For example output interface may interface with various output technologies including but not limited to display a speaker a printer etc. Model definition device may have one or more output interfaces that use the same or a different output interface technology. The output interface technology further may be accessible by model definition device through communication interface .

Communication interface provides an interface for receiving and transmitting data between devices using various protocols transmission technologies and media as understood by those skilled in the art. Communication interface may support communication using various transmission media that may be wired and or wireless. Model definition device may have one or more communication interfaces that use the same or a different communication interface technology. For example model definition device may support communication using an Ethernet port a Bluetooth antenna a telephone jack a USB port etc. Data and messages may be transferred between model definition device and or distributed systems one or more drilling operation sensors and or one or more drilling operation control parameters of the plurality of drilling rigs using communication interface .

Computer readable medium is an electronic holding place or storage for information so the information can be accessed by processor as understood by those skilled in the art. Computer readable medium can include but is not limited to any type of random access memory RAM any type of read only memory ROM any type of flash memory etc. such as magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD . . . smart cards flash memory devices etc. Model definition device may have one or more computer readable media that use the same or a different memory media technology. For example computer readable medium may include different types of computer readable media that may be organized hierarchically to provide efficient access to the data stored therein as understood by a person of skill in the art. As an example a cache may be implemented in a smaller faster memory that stores copies of data from the most frequently recently accessed main memory locations to reduce an access latency. Model definition device also may have one or more drives that support the loading of a memory media such as a CD DVD an external hard drive etc. One or more external hard drives further may be connected to model definition device using communication interface .

Processor executes instructions as understood by those skilled in the art. The instructions may be carried out by a special purpose computer logic circuits or hardware circuits. Processor may be implemented in hardware and or firmware. Processor executes an instruction meaning it performs controls the operations called for by that instruction. The term execution is the process of running an application or the carrying out of the operation called for by an instruction. The instructions may be written using one or more programming language scripting language assembly language etc. Processor operably couples with input interface with output interface with communication interface and with computer readable medium to receive to send and to process information. Processor may retrieve a set of instructions from a permanent memory device and copy the instructions in an executable form to a temporary memory device that is generally some form of RAM. Model definition device may include a plurality of processors that use the same or a different processing technology.

Model definition application performs operations associated with defining predictive model for one or more drilling operations from data stored in data warehouse . Some or all of the operations described herein may be embodied in model definition application . The operations may be implemented using hardware firmware software or any combination of these methods. Referring to the example embodiment of model definition application is implemented in software comprised of computer readable and or computer executable instructions stored in computer readable medium and accessible by processor for execution of the instructions that embody the operations of model definition application . Model definition application may be written using one or more programming languages assembly languages scripting languages etc.

Model definition application may be implemented as a Web application. For example model definition application may be configured to receive hypertext transport protocol HTTP responses and to send HTTP requests. The HTTP responses may include web pages such as hypertext markup language HTML documents and linked objects generated in response to the HTTP requests. Each web page may be identified by a uniform resource locator URL that includes the location or address of the computing device that contains the resource to be accessed in addition to the location of the resource on that computing device. The type of file or resource depends on the Internet application protocol such as the file transfer protocol HTTP H.323 etc. The file accessed may be a simple text file an image file an audio file a video file an executable a common gateway interface application a Java applet an extensible markup language XML file or any other type of file supported by HTTP.

Data warehouse may be stored in computer readable medium or on one or more computing devices e.g. distributed systems and accessed using communication interface . The data stored in data warehouse may be received from the one or more drilling operation sensors . Example sensors include pressure sensors temperature sensors position sensors velocity sensors acceleration sensors flow rate sensors etc. that may be mounted to various components used as part of the drilling operation. For example the one or more drilling operation sensors may include surface and or downhole sensors that measure a flow in rate a flow out rate a surface pressure a downhole pressure a differential pressure a bit diameter a fluid temperature a fluid density a fluid tank volume a mud rheology property a rate of penetration a torque a rotation speed of a drill pipe a rotation speed of a drill bit etc. Other data may be generated using physical models such as an earth model a weather model a seismic model a bottom hole assembly model a well plan model an annular friction model etc. In addition to sensor data predicted outputs of for example a flow back measure such as a flow back pressure a flow back flow rate a flow back volume etc. may also be stored in the data warehouse in association with the sensor data drilling operation control parameters indicating a current value of a control parameter for the drilling operation or other data.

The plurality of values may be measured from the same drilling operation from one or more neighboring drilling operations from one or more drilling operations with similar geological characteristics from any of one or more drilling operations etc. For example a drilling operation in an environment with a similar permeability and porosity may be used. The plurality of values may result from control variable values chosen by an operator during a previous time period on the same or a different drilling operation.

The data stored in data warehouse may include any type of content represented in any computer readable format such as binary alphanumeric numeric string markup language etc. The content may include textual information graphical information image information audio information numeric information etc. that further may be encoded using various encoding techniques as understood by a person of skill in the art. Data warehouse may be stored using various formats as known to those skilled in the art including a file system a relational database a system of tables a structured query language database etc. For example data warehouse may be stored in a cube distributed across a grid of computers as understood by a person of skill in the art. As another example data warehouse may be stored in a multi node Hadoop cluster as understood by a person of skill in the art. Apache Hadoop is an open source software framework for distributed computing supported by the Apache Software Foundation. As another example data warehouse may be stored in a cloud of computers and accessed using cloud computing technologies as understood by a person of skill in the art. The SAS LASR Analytic Server developed and provided by SAS Institute Inc. of Cary N.C. USA may be used as an analytic platform to enable multiple users to concurrently access data stored in data warehouse .

If data warehouse is distributed across distributed systems a distributed processing system can be used. For example the distributed processing system may be implemented using a multi node Hadoop cluster using a grid of computers storing a cube of data using the SAS LASR Analytic Server using cloud of computers etc. as understood by a person of skill in the art. For example a distributed control device may coordinate access to data warehouse distributed across distributed systems when requested by model definition device . One or more components of the distributed processing system may support multithreading as understood by a person of skill in the art. The components of the distributed processing system may be located in a single room or adjacent rooms in a single facility and or may be distributed geographically from one another.

The data in data warehouse may be cleansed to impute missing values smooth noisy data identify and remove outliers and or resolve inconsistencies as understood by a person of skill in the art. The data in data warehouse may be transformed to normalize and aggregate the data to unify data formats such as dates and to convert nominal data types to numeric data types as understood by a person of skill in the art.

Referring to example operations associated with model definition application are described. Model definition application may be used to create one or more predictive model using the data stored in data warehouse . Predictive model supports a determination of a predicted value for the flow back measure such as the flow back pressure the flow back flow rate the flow back volume etc. using sensed data measured during the drilling operation by the one or more drilling operation sensors and or using control settings read for the one or more drilling operation control parameters of the drilling operation.

Additional fewer or different operations may be performed depending on the embodiment. The order of presentation of the operations of is not intended to be limiting. Although some of the operational flows are presented in sequence the various operations may be performed in various repetitions concurrently in parallel for example using threads and or in other orders than those that are illustrated. For example a user may execute model definition application which causes presentation of a first user interface window which may include a plurality of menus and selectors such as drop down menus buttons text boxes hyperlinks etc. associated with model definition application as understood by a person of skill in the art. An indicator may indicate one or more user selections from a user interface one or more data entries into a data field of the user interface one or more data items read from computer readable medium or otherwise defined with one or more default values etc. that are received as an input by model definition application .

In an operation a first indicator of one or more types of predictive models and configurations is received. For example the first indicator indicates a name of a type of predictive model and one or more flow back measures such as the flow back pressure the flow back flow rate the flow back volume etc. to predict. One or more types of predictive models and configurations for one or more flow back measures further may be defined for one or more types of geological strata. A name of a type of predictive model may be selectable for each of the one or more types of geological strata. A name of a type of predictive model further may be selectable for one or more of the flow back measures.

For illustration the name of a type of predictive model may be Neural Network Linear Regression Non linear Regression Support Vector Machine Decision Tree Partial Least Squares Gradient Boosting etc. A configuration identifies one or more initialization values based on the type of predictive model. For example when the type of predictive model is indicated as Neural Network a number of hidden layers a number of nodes per layer a propagation method etc. may be identified by the first indicator. A plurality of configurations may be defined. For example when the type of predictive model is neural network a range of numbers of hidden layers a range of numbers of nodes per layer etc. also may be identified by the first indicator.

For further illustration the data in data warehouse may be provided to SAS Enterprise Miner for predictive modeling developed and provided by SAS Institute Inc. of Cary N.C. USA. As an example SAS Enterprise Miner includes types of predictive models for neural networks AutoNeural DMNeural Neural Network decision trees Decision Tree Gradient Boosting regression models Dmine Regression Least Angle Regressions LARS Regression k nearest neighbors models Memory Based Reasoning MBR a partial least squares model Partial Least Squares a support vector machine Support Vector Machine an ensemble of models that are integrated to define a predictive model Ensemble etc.

The first indicator may be received by model definition application after selection from a user interface window or after entry by a user into a user interface window. A default value for the types of predictive models and configurations and the one or more types of geological strata may further be stored for example in computer readable medium . In an alternative embodiment the types of predictive models and configurations and the one or more types of geological strata may not be selectable.

In an operation a second indicator of data warehouse is received. For example the second indicator indicates a location of data warehouse . As an example the second indicator may be received by model definition application after selection from a user interface window or after entry by a user into a user interface window. In an alternative embodiment data warehouse may not be selectable. For example a most recently created data warehouse may be used automatically.

As discussed previously data warehouse may be stored in a cube distributed across a grid of computers may be stored in a multi node Hadoop cluster distributed across one or more computers may be stored in a file system distributed across one or more computers in a relational database in one or more tables in a structured query language database etc.

In an operation the data stored in data warehouse is explored and mined to select input variables significant to a determination of a predictive model for one or more of the flow back measures and or the one or more types of geological strata. For example in operation the data stored in data warehouse is reduced to obtain a minimal representation in dimension and volume as well as to retain a consistent variance and entropy for similar analytical results. Numerical data types may be discretized as understood by a person of skill in the art to simplify analytic processing.

Example data mining techniques include factor analysis principal component analysis correlation analysis etc. as understood by a person of skill in the art. For illustration SAS Enterprise Miner developed and provided by SAS Institute Inc. of Cary N.C. USA includes nodes for exploring data and selecting or modifying control variables as input variables. Examples nodes include transformation nodes clustering nodes association rule nodes a variable selection node a descriptive statistics node a principal components node etc.

For example the input variables with a highest degree of correlation relative to predicting each of the one or more flow back measures and or the one or more types of geological strata may be selected. Example input variables include a flow in rate variable a flow out rate variable a surface pressure variable a downhole pressure variable a differential pressure variable a bit diameter variable a fluid temperature variable a fluid density variable a fluid tank volume variable a mud rheology property variable a rate of penetration variable a torque variable a surface rotation speed variable measured by a surface drilling control system a drill bit rotation speed variable calculated from fluid flow rates through a mud motor etc.

In an operation a third indicator for selecting training data for the predictive model from data warehouse is received. The third indicator may be received by model definition application for example after selection from a user interface window or after entry by a user into a user interface window. The third indicator identifies a first portion of the data stored in data warehouse to use in training the predictive model. The third indicator may indicate a number of data points to include a percentage of data points of the entire data warehouse to include etc. A subset may be created from data warehouse by sampling. An example sampling algorithm is uniform sampling. Other random sampling algorithms may be used.

In an operation a fourth indicator for selecting validation data for the predictive model from data warehouse is received. The fourth indicator may be received by model definition application for example after selection from a user interface window or after entry by a user into a user interface window. The fourth indicator identifies a second portion of the data stored in data warehouse to use in validating the predictive model. The fourth indicator may indicate a number of data points to include a percentage of data points of the entire data warehouse to include etc. A subset may be created from data warehouse by sampling. An example sampling algorithm is uniform sampling. Other random sampling algorithms may be used. The data points from data warehouse selected for the validation data may be distinct from the data points from data warehouse selected for the training data.

In an operation a predictive model is selected based on the first indicator or based on a default model stored in computer readable medium . In an operation the selected predictive model is initialized. In an operation the initialized predictive model is trained using the training data selected as indicated by the third indicator.

In an operation output data is predicted with the validation data selected as indicated by the fourth indicator as an input to the trained predictive model. In an operation the predicted output data is compared to the actual output data included with the validation data. In an operation a validity score is determined based on the comparison. In an operation the determined validity score is stored for example in computer readable medium in association with an indicator of the selected predictive model.

In an operation a determination is made concerning whether or not there is another predictive model to evaluate. When there is another predictive model to evaluate processing continues in operation . When there is not another predictive model to evaluate processing continues in an operation . In operation a next predictive model is selected based on the first indicator.

In operation a best predictive model for each of one or more specific drilling location specific drilling field specific type of drilling environment type of flow back measure indicator type of geological indicator etc. is selected. For example the validity scores stored for each iteration of operation are compared and the predictive model associated with the best validity score is selected. The best validity score may be a minimum or a maximum value of the validity scores stored for each iteration of operation . For example if the validity score is a misclassification rate a minimum validity score indicates the best model whereas if the validity score is a correct classification rate a maximum validity score indicates the best model.

In an operation the selected best predictive model is stored for example in computer readable medium . The selected predictive model may be stored in association with a specific drilling location a specific drilling field a specific type of drilling environment a type of flow back measure indicator a type of geological indicator etc. The selected predictive model is stored as predictive model . A different predictive model may be defined for each specific drilling location specific drilling field specific type of drilling environment type of flow back measure indicator and type of geological indicator etc.

Referring to a block diagram of a prediction device is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Prediction device may include a second input interface a second output interface a second communication interface a second computer readable medium a second processor predictive model sensed data control data prediction application and a second display . Fewer different and or additional components may be incorporated into prediction device .

After being selected using model definition device predictive model may be stored in second computer readable medium and or accessed by prediction device through second communication interface . Model definition device and prediction device may be integrated into the same computing device. Model definition device and prediction device may be different computing devices. Prediction device may be located on a drilling rig of the plurality of drilling rigs or remote from the plurality of drilling rigs . Prediction device may be located on a drilling rig different from the plurality of drilling rigs from which data is stored in data warehouse . Data generated by prediction device may be stored in data warehouse through second communication interface .

Second input interface provides the same or similar functionality as that described with reference to input interface of model definition device though referring to prediction device . Second output interface provides the same or similar functionality as that described with reference to output interface of model definition device though referring to prediction device . Second communication interface provides the same or similar functionality as that described with reference to communication interface of model definition device though referring to prediction device . Data and messages may be transferred between prediction device and drilling operation control s and or drilling operation sensor s using second communication interface . Data and messages may be transferred between prediction device and drilling operation control s and or drilling operation sensor s using second input interface and or second output interface . Second computer readable medium provides the same or similar functionality as that described with reference to computer readable medium of model definition device though referring to prediction device . Second processor provides the same or similar functionality as that described with reference to processor of model definition device though referring to prediction device .

Prediction application supports a determination of a predicted value for one or more flow back measure based on one or more type of geological strata of the drilling operation using sensed data measured during the drilling operation and control data generated during the drilling operation. Prediction application may be executed for each connection event that occurs during the drilling operation. Some or all of the operations described herein may be embodied in prediction application . The operations of prediction application may be implemented using hardware firmware software or any combination of these methods. Referring to the example embodiment of prediction application is implemented in software comprised of computer readable and or computer executable instructions stored in second computer readable medium and accessible by second processor for execution of the instructions that embody the operations of prediction application . Prediction application may be written using one or more programming languages assembly languages scripting languages etc. Prediction application may be implemented as a Web application.

Referring to example operations associated with prediction application are described. For example the example operations may be performed upon occurrence of a connection event to monitor a fluid flow back measure during the event. Additional fewer or different operations may be performed depending on the embodiment. The order of presentation of the operations of is not intended to be limiting. Although some of the operational flows are presented in sequence the various operations may be performed in various repetitions concurrently in parallel for example using threads and or in other orders than those that are illustrated.

In an operation a value of a confidence level is received. The confidence level indicates a certainty that a current fluid flow back measurement falls within what is considered an expected variability of the actual flow back as compared to a predicted flow back. As an example a confidence level of 5 would establish that an actual fluid flow back response greater than 2.5 of the predicted flow back at a given point in time triggers an alarm using alarm system . As an example the confidence level value may be entered or selected by a user and received by prediction application . For illustration the confidence level value may be received after interaction by the user with a user interface window. For example a numerical value is received that indicates a user selection of the value to be used for the confidence level. For further illustration instead of receiving a user selection a default value for the confidence level may be stored in second computer readable medium and received by retrieving the value from the appropriate memory location as understood by a person of skill in the art.

In an operation a geological indicator is received. The geological indicator indicates a type of the current geology of the drilling operation to use for a current prediction of the one or more flow back measures. For example the geological indicator may indicate sandstone dolomite limestone shale etc. As an example the geological indicator may be entered or selected by a user and received by prediction application . For illustration the geological indicator may be received after interaction by the user with a user interface window. For example a numerical or alphanumeric value is received that indicates a user selection of the geological indicator. For further illustration instead of receiving a user selection a default value for the geological indicator may be stored in second computer readable medium and received by retrieving the value from the appropriate memory location as understood by a person of skill in the art.

In an operation sensed data and or control data is received. For example control data and sensed data associated with the input variables indicated in operation are received from data warehouse . The control data and sensed data may have been recorded during a previous connection event of the drilling operation such as during a last drilled stand of drillpipe.

In an operation values of the one or more flow back values of the drilling operation are predicted as a function of time by executing the selected predictive model defined for the geological indicated by the geological indicator with the control data and sensed data received in operation as an input.

In an operation the predicted values of the one or more flow back values of the drilling operation are output. For example the predicted values may be output to second display for review by a user and or output to second computer readable medium . For illustration referring to the predicted values of the one or more flow back values of the drilling operation are represented by an acceptable fluid flow back band shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Acceptable fluid flow back band indicates the predicted values of the one or more flow back values of the drilling operation as a function of time and has a width that is defined by the received confidence level value. A flow back measurement that falls outside the width of alarm limit band may be abnormal and worthy of further investigation or response by drilling personnel. A maximum curve of alarm limit band is defined as P PC 2 where Pis the predicted value at each time point and Cis a numeric value of the confidence level. A minimum curve of alarm limit band is defined as P PC 2.

In an operation flow back measurement data is received from sensed data in or near real time. In an operation the received flow back measurement data is output. For example the received flow back measurement data may be output to second display for review by a user and or output to second computer readable medium . For illustration referring to the received flow back measurement data is represented by flow back measurement curve shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Previous flow back curves also may be output. Previous flow back curves may indicate what the fluid flow back response was during one or more previous connection event. For example previous flow back curves show the previous flow back as a function of time during three previous connection events.

As another example referring to a fluid flow back status indicator is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Fluid flow back status indicator may be output to second display for review by a user. In the illustrative embodiment fluid flow back status indicator is in the form of a dial. Fluid flow back status indicator may include a first semicircular region a second semicircular region a third semicircular region a center region and a value indicator . Fluid flow back status indicator may include a greater or a fewer number of regions.

First semicircular region defines an acceptable fluid flow back region. Second semicircular region defines a less than acceptable fluid flow back region. Third semicircular region defines a greater than acceptable fluid flow back region. Each region may include a different color or shading. For example first semicircular region may be green. Second semicircular region and third semicircular region may be red.

First semicircular region is positioned at a top of center region between second semicircular region and third semicircular region . Second semicircular region is positioned to the left of first semicircular region . Third semicircular region is positioned to the right of first semicircular region .

In the illustrative embodiment value indicator is a pointer that can be positioned at a location within one of first semicircular region second semicircular region and third semicircular region based on a value of the received flow back measurement datum at a specific time point. A position of value indicator around center region may indicate how close the value for the received flow back measurement datum is to Pat that time point. A position of value indicator in a left side of center region may indicate that the value for the received flow back measurement datum is less than Pat that time point. A position of value indicator in a right side of center region may indicate that the value for the received flow back measurement datum is greater than Pat that time point.

A position of value indicator within first semicircular region indicates that the value for the received flow back measurement datum is within P PC 2. A position of value indicator straight up within first semicircular region indicates that the value for the received flow back measurement datum is P. A position of value indicator within second semicircular region indicates that the value for the received flow back measurement datum is less than P PC 2. A position of value indicator within third semicircular region indicates that the value for the received flow back measurement datum is greater than P PC 2.

A location of value indicator may be updated when each time point is added to flow back measurement curve . A color or a shading of center region may be changed to match the color or the shading of the semicircular region in which value indicator is positioned.

In an operation the received flow back measurement data is compared to the predicted values. In an operation a determination is made concerning whether alarm system should be triggered to issue an alarm. If alarm system should not be triggered to issue an alarm processing continues in an operation . If alarm system should be triggered to issue an alarm processing continues in an operation .

The determination may be based on the received flow back measurement data exceeding the predicted values by more than half the confidence level value. For illustration referring to the received flow back measurement data is represented by flow back curve shown at a later point in time. An alarm may be triggered at time point based on the received flow back measurement data exceeding the maximum curve of acceptable fluid flow back band . Exceeding the maximum curve of acceptable fluid flow back band may be evidence of a fluid influx from the geology indicating a potential well kick.

In operation alarm system is triggered to issue an alarm. For example alarm system may include a speaker through which an alarm message is sounded. As another example an alarm indicator may be triggered on second display . For example referring to fluid flow back status indicator may be updated at time point to show value indicator in third semicircular region indicating that the value for the received flow back measurement datum at time point exceeds P PC 2. In the illustrative embodiment the color or the shading of center region may be changed to match the color or the shading of third semicircular region to further alert the user to a potential well kick.

In an operation a determination is made concerning whether a change to predictive model is performed. If the determination is to perform a change processing continues in an operation to update or change one or more of the models. If the determination is not to perform a change processing continues in operation to continue to process sensed data as it is received in or near real time and to monitor the received flow back measurement data.

An indicator may be received indicating that a change or an update to one or more of the models be performed. For example predictive model may be updated periodically such as every second minute hour day week month year etc. A timer may trigger receipt of the indicator. A user may trigger receipt of the indicator. As another example predictive model may be changed when a predominant geological value for the open hole section of the wellbore changes.

In operation the one or more models are updated. For example the one or more models may be updated by updating the data stored in data warehouse and repeating one or more of operations to for predictive model . For example operations to may be repeated. The data stored in data warehouse in a previous iteration of operation in addition to data measured and stored in data warehouse subsequent to the last iteration of operation may be used to update the one or more models. As another example predictive model may be updated to use a predictive model associated with the change in the predominant geology for the open hole section of the wellbore.

Referring to a block diagram of a drilling system is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Drilling system may include first drilling rig network and model definition device . Fewer different and or additional components may be incorporated into drilling system . First drilling rig may include the drilling operation sensors the drilling operation control parameters that generate control data a rig control interface device a local data aggregator an event stream processing ESP device second display and a second network . Rig control interface device may be configured to receive data from the drilling operation sensors and the drilling operation control parameters . The received data may be aggregated on pre existing rig aggregators such as local data aggregator as understood by a person of skill in the art.

Second network may include one or more networks of the same or different types. Second network can be any type or combination of wired and or wireless public or private network including a cellular network a local area network a wide area network such as the Internet etc. Second network further may comprise sub networks and consist of any number of devices. Though connections through second network are not explicitly shown in the illustrative embodiment of one or more of the components of drilling system may communicate using second network that includes various transmission media that may be wired and or wireless as understood by those skilled in the art. One or more of the components of drilling system may be directly connected or integrated into one or more computing devices.

Referring to a block diagram of ESP device is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. ESP device may include a third input interface a third output interface a third communication interface a third computer readable medium a third processor and an ESP application . Fewer different and or additional components may be incorporated into ESP device .

Third input interface provides the same or similar functionality as that described with reference to input interface of model definition device though referring to ESP device . Third output interface provides the same or similar functionality as that described with reference to output interface of model definition device though referring to ESP device . Third communication interface provides the same or similar functionality as that described with reference to communication interface of model definition device though referring to ESP device . Data and messages may be transferred between ESP device and model definition device rig control interface device and or second display using second communication interface . Third computer readable medium provides the same or similar functionality as that described with reference to computer readable medium of model definition device though referring to ESP device . Third processor provides the same or similar functionality as that described with reference to processor of model definition device though referring to ESP device .

ESP application performs operations associated with executing the operations of prediction application in or near real time. Some or all of the operations described herein may be embodied in ESP application . The operations may be implemented using hardware firmware software or any combination of these methods. Referring to the example embodiment of ESP application is implemented in software comprised of computer readable and or computer executable instructions stored in third computer readable medium and accessible by third processor for execution of the instructions that embody the operations of ESP application . ESP application may be written using one or more programming languages assembly languages scripting languages etc. ESP application may be based on the Event Stream Processing Engine developed and provided by SAS Institute Inc. of Cary N.C. USA.

Referring to example operations associated with ESP application are described. Additional fewer or different operations may be performed depending on the embodiment. The order of presentation of the operations of is not intended to be limiting. Although some of the operational flows are presented in sequence the various operations may be performed in various repetitions concurrently in parallel for example using threads and or in other orders than those that are illustrated.

In an operation an ESP application instance is instantiated at ESP device . In an illustrative embodiment an engine container is created which instantiates an ESP engine ESPE . The components of an ESPE executing at ESP device may include one or more projects. A project may be described as a second level container in a model managed by the ESPE where a thread pool size for the project may be defined by a user. The engine container is the top level container in a model that manages the resources of the one or more projects. Each project of the one or more projects may include one or more continuous queries also referenced as a model. The one or more continuous queries may include one or more source windows and one or more derived windows. In an illustrative embodiment for example there can be only one ESPE for each instance of ESP application . ESPE may or may not be persistent.

Continuous query modeling involves defining directed graphs of windows for event stream manipulation and transformation. A continuous query may be described as a directed graph of source relational pattern matching and procedural windows. The one or more source windows and the one or more derived windows represent continuously executing queries that generate updates to a query result set as new event blocks stream through ESPE.

An event object may be described as a packet of data accessible as a collection of fields with at least one of the fields defined as a key or unique identifier ID . The event object may be created using a variety of formats including binary alphanumeric XML etc. Each event object may include one or more fields designated as a primary ID for the event so ESPE can support operation codes opcodes for events including insert update upsert and delete. Upsert opcodes update the event if the key field already exists otherwise the event is inserted. For illustration an event object may be a packed binary representation of a set of field values and include both metadata and field data associated with an event. The metadata may include an opcode indicating if the event represents an insert update delete or upsert a set of flags indicating if the event is a normal partial update or a retention generated event from retention policy management and a set of microsecond timestamps that can be used for latency measurements.

An event block object may be described as a grouping or package of event objects. An event stream may be described as a continuous flow of event block objects. A continuous query of the one or more continuous queries transforms a source event stream made up of streaming event block objects published into ESPE into one or more output event streams using the one or more source windows and the one or more derived windows. A continuous query can also be thought of as data flow modeling.

The one or more source windows are at the top of the directed graph and have no windows feeding into them. Event streams are published into the one or more source windows and from there the event streams are directed to the next set of connected windows as defined by the created drilling model. The one or more derived windows are all instantiated windows that are not source windows and that have other windows streaming events into them. The one or more derived windows perform computations or transformations on the incoming event streams. The one or more derived windows transform event streams based on the window type that is operators such as join filter compute aggregate copy pattern match procedural union etc. and window settings. As event streams are published into the ESPE they are continuously queried and the resulting sets of derived windows in these queries are continuously updated.

The one or more continuous queries are instantiated by the ESPE as a model. For illustration the one or more continuous queries may be defined to apply one or more of the operations of prediction application e.g. operations and of within the ESPE to sensed data and or control data that is streamed to ESP device and to output the determined set point s and updated rate of penetration chart to second display and or to rig control interface device . To create a continuous query input event structures that are schemas with keys that flow into the one or more source windows are identified. Output event structures that are also schemas with keys that will be generated by the one or more source windows and or the one or more derived windows are also identified. The one or more source windows and the one or more derived windows are created based on the relational pattern matching and procedural algorithms that transform the input event streams into the output event streams.

The ESPE may analyze and process events in motion or event streams. Instead of storing data and running queries against the stored data the ESPE may store queries and stream data through them to allow continuous analysis of data as it is received.

A publish subscribe pub sub capability is initialized for the ESPE. In an illustrative embodiment a pub sub capability is initialized for each project of the one or more projects. To initialize and enable pub sub capability for the ESPE a port number is provided. Pub sub clients use the port number to establish pub sub connections to the ESPE. The one or more continuous queries instantiated by the ESPE analyze and process the input event streams to form output event streams output to event subscribing device s .

A pub sub application programming interface API may be described as a library that enables an event publisher such as rig control interface device local data aggregator and or model definition device to publish event streams into the ESPE or an event subscriber such as second display and rig control interface device to subscribe to event streams from the ESPE. The pub sub API provides cross platform connectivity and endianness compatibility between ESP application and other networked applications. The pub sub API may include an ESP object support library so the event publisher or the event subscriber can create or manipulate the events they send or receive respectively. For example rig control interface device may use the pub sub API to send a stream of event blocks event block objects into the ESPE and second display may use the pub sub API to receive a stream of event blocks from the ESPE.

In an operation one or more event blocks that include control data and or sensed data are received by the ESPE. An event block object containing one or more event objects is injected into a source window of the one or more source windows.

In an operation the event blocks are processed through the one or more operations of prediction application executed within the ESPE. In an operation second event blocks are sent to second display . For example the fluid flow back chart of may be updated and output in one or more event blocks sent to second display for review by an operator.

In an operation third event blocks are sent to rig control interface device which may interface with and or control alarm system .

Similar to operation in an operation a determination is made concerning whether a change to predictive model is performed. If the determination is to perform a model change processing continues in an operation . If the determination is not to perform a model change processing continues in operation to continue to process control data and sensed data as it is received in real time.

In operation the project is stopped. In an operation predictive model of prediction application is updated for example from model definition device . In an operation the project in the ESPE is restarted with the updated prediction application and processing continues in operation to continue to process control data and sensed data as it is received in real time.

The word illustrative is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as illustrative is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Further for the purposes of this disclosure and unless otherwise specified a or an means one or more . Still further using and or or in the detailed description is intended to include and or unless specifically indicated otherwise. The illustrative embodiments may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed embodiments.

The foregoing description of illustrative embodiments of the disclosed subject matter has been presented for purposes of illustration and of description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosed subject matter to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the disclosed subject matter. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the disclosed subject matter and as practical applications of the disclosed subject matter to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the disclosed subject matter in various embodiments and with various modifications as suited to the particular use contemplated.

