---

title: Dual spectral-band optical lens imager
abstract: A continuous zoom lens arrangement can image MWIR and LWIR spectral bands to a common image plane. Such an exemplary optical system comprises eight infrared imaging lenses that all transmit over the wavelengths 3.5-11.0 microns and form a collocated image plane for the MWIR and LWIR spectral bands. The lens has six stationary lenses, and two lenses that move in an axial fashion. A cold stop inside the dewar can act as the aperture stop of the system and control the stray light from reaching the FPA. The pupil is reimaged from the cold stop to near the first lens of the system to minimize the size of the lens.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09091840&OS=09091840&RS=09091840
owner: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY
number: 09091840
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140226
---
This is a divisional patent application of application Ser. No. 12 975 424 filed Dec. 22 2010 entitled Dual Band Infrared Continuous Zoom Lens now U.S. Pat. No. 8 724 216. The aforementioned application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used sold imported and or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America.

This invention relates in general to optics and more particularly to dual band infrared continuous zoom lens system.

With the development of dual band focal plane arrays which image both the mid wavelength infrared MWIR and long wavelength infrared LWIR spectral bands simultaneously at the same image plane the development of various types of optical systems has been required. In order to keep the same capabilities as a single band system i.e. MWIR only it is necessary to develop similar types of optical systems. One useful type of optical system is a continuous zoom lens arrangement which enables FOV changing from the lenses shortest focal length to its longest focal length and every focal length in between with good optical performance. This has previously been accomplished in both the MWIR and LWIR spectral bands independently. However a dual band system requires a more complex optical design because of the need to image both spectral bands at the same image plane even though this is not the natural tendency of the optics. These lenses require significant color correction for each focal length. This is very difficult for systems that require significant focal length changes.

Due to the reduced transmission from the broader spectral band the fewer optical elements the better in order to reduce ghost images and improve system noise equivalent temperature difference NETD .

An exemplary continuous zoom dual band optical lens imager is disclosed based on infrared optical materials. Such an exemplary continuous zoom dual band optical lens imager comprises six stationary lenses two lenses axially movable and a focal plane array wherein said lenses are optically configured to transmit spectral wavelengths in the range of 3.5 11.0 microns to form a collocated image plane for MWIR and LWIR spectral bands.

In another aspect an exemplary optical operating system is disclosed based on an optical lens system having an optical lens imager capable of a variable focal length configured with an exemplary reflective afocal of a like magnification. Said optical operating system comprises the steps of light enters the optical lens system via the reflective afocal said light is first reflected off of a primary mirror wherein said primary mirror is a concave parabolic off axis mirror said first reflected light is second reflected from a secondary mirror wherein said secondary mirror is a convex off axis parabolic mirror said second reflected light from said secondary mirror is passed to a fold mirror said light from said fold mirror is then reflected from a tertiary mirror wherein said tertiary mirror is an off axis concave parabolic mirror and wherein there is an intermediate image plane between the fold mirror and the tertiary mirror and said light reflected from said tertiary mirror is reflected off another fold mirror to be passed to said optical lens imager of a configured field of view. Said another fold mirror is disposed between the optical lens imager and the reflective afocal to achieve a compact optical operating system.

Yet in another aspect an exemplary continuous zoom dual spectral band optical lens imager is disclosed based on infrared optical materials. Such an exemplary continuous zoom dual spectral band optical lens imager comprises a first lens based on zinc selenide and having an aspheric front surface a second lens based on germanium and having spherical front and back curvatures a third lens based on barium fluoride and having spherical front and back curvatures wherein the first second and third lenses form a triplet a fourth lens based on zinc selenide and having a spherical first surface and aspheric second surface a fifth lens based on germanium and having a spherical first surface and spherical second surface wherein said fifth lens is moveably configured as a first zoom lens to moveably effect a focal length without changing an image plane location for either of the dual spectral bands a six lens based on zinc selenide and having spherical first and second surfaces wherein said sixth lens is moveably configured as a second zoom lens a seventh lens based on barium fluoride and having spherical front and back surfaces an eighth lens based on zinc selenide and having an aspheric first surface and a spherical second surface and a dewar window based on an infrared transmitting material such as germanium and a focal plane array. Said dewar window is configured to provide a vacuum seal to a dewar at cryogenic temperatures. Said focal plane array is either a dual band focal plane array or a broad band focal plane array housed in said dewar. An aperture stop or a cold stop is disposed between said dewar window and said focal plane array to determine a solid angle of the optics for each portion of said focal plane array. A pupil formed by the aperture stop is reimaged in front of the first lens to form an entrance pupil for all fields of view.

An exemplary optical system as shown in comprises eight infrared imaging lenses that all transmit over the wavelengths 3.5 11.0 microns and form a collocated image plane for the MWIR 3.5 5.0 microns and LWIR 7.5 11.0 microns spectral bands. The lens arrangement can have six stationary lenses and two lenses that move in an axial fashion. The lens arrangement is configured as an imager to utilize a cold stop inside the dewar to act as the aperture stop of the system and control the stray light from reaching the FPA as is typically configured in a cooled infrared system. The pupil is reimaged from the cold stop to near the first lens of the system to minimize the size of the lens. The optic is designed to operate at an f number of 3.0 and provides a focal length range from 38 mm to 130 mm for a 640 480 element focal plane array with 20 micron square pixels. This has an equivalent image plane diameter of 16 mm and results in a horizontal field of view range of 5.6 19.1 degrees. This optical system is designed to work with a cold shield height of 29.46 mm although this value could be varied with slight tweaks to the optical design. The range in focal length result in an overall zoom change of 3.42 .

Such an exemplary imager can be combined with a reflective afocal of magnification 3.42 to achieve a continuous zoom range of 11.6 . The additional zoom range can be achieved by using an afocal that utilizes a bypass mirror to maintain the imager focal lengths and then combine with the 3.42 afocal to create focal lengths from 130 445 mm. The entrance pupil of the imager is thus also sized to be 3.42 the size of that of the imager by itself. The size of the entrance pupil can be minimized via the use of dual f number capability where the f number changes to minimize the maximum aperture. In this case the f number will change by a factor of two at the point where the system focal length is half that of the maximum focal length of the system. The maximum aperture is thus scaled in half.

The optical materials of each lens shown in can be chosen to not only transmit the required MWIR and LWIR spectral bands but to aid in providing color correction for each spectral band so that the image planes will fall in the same location as well provide the same focal length to within a small tolerance. The ray trace for such an exemplary optical system is shown in . The first three lenses form a triplet prior to the zoom lenses. The first lens can be a Zinc Selenide element with an aspheric front surface. This lens is followed by a Germanium lens and a Barium Fluoride lens both of which have spherical front and back curvatures. The fourth lens is a zinc selenide lens with a spherical first surface and aspheric second surface. The fifth lens is the first of two zoom lenses that move in the same direction to create the change in focal length without changing the image plane location for either spectral band. This lens is made from germanium and has a spherical first surface and spherical second surface. The second zoom lens is made from Zinc Selenide and has both spherical first and second surfaces. The total travel for the first zoom lens is 43.0 mm and the second zoom lens is 69.9 mm. The last two lenses are comprised of barium fluoride and zinc Selenide respectively. The barium fluoride lens has spherical front and back surfaces. The last lens has an aspheric first surface and a spherical second surface. The lens is followed by a dewar window comprised on an infrared transmitting material such as germanium. This window is used to provide a vacuum seal to the dewar that houses the dual band or broad band focal plane array and maintain it at cryogenic temperatures. Between the window and focal plane array at an optical distance of 29.46 mm is an aperture stop that is maintained at cryogenic temperatures and referred to as a cold stop. This aperture is the aperture stop of the system and determines the solid angle of the optics for each portion of the focal plane array. The pupil formed by the aperture stop is reimaged in front of the first lens to form an entrance pupil for all field of view. The reimaging requires that an intermediate image plane be formed within the lens. This image plane falls between the two zoom lenses for the majority of zoom positions but both lenses fall on the object side of the intermediate image plane for the widest field of view zoom position. There are two locations for fold mirrors which enable the system to be folded in multiple ways for package purposes if desired. These fold mirrors are optional and any subset number of mirrors or can be used depending on the desired packaging. The mirrors can also be folded in any 45 degree orientation. The optical rays trace through all of the described lenses and form images at the location of the focal plane array . Both the MWIR and the LWIR form its image plane at this location for all fields of view.

This lens can also be used as a multiple FOV lens where the FOV is changed by an axial zoom and only image at discrete positions along the axis. Any number of zoom positions could be used from a fixed focal length lens two position to an infinite number of positions.

The re imaged pupil of the lens is located at a distance of 60 mm in front of the first lens. This enables the lens to be combined with an afocal to change the focal length range of the continuous zoom lens. This change can either be used to create a fixed change in focal length range or be combined with a switchable afocal to extend the overall zoom range of the system.

The range of continuous zoom with dual band capability can be increased by the addition of an afocal of the same magnification change as the imager. Such an optical system is shown in e.g. . The system comprises of the imager as previously described combined with a reflective afocal e.g. of the same magnification. To obtain a continuous zoom such an exemplary 3.42 zoom range imager is combined with an exemplary 3.42 magnification afocal. The new resulting exemplary lens system is described in where each figure comprises of the same set of lenses and mirrors but the position of some of the lenses and mirror are moved relative to each other in order to change the focal length of the system. The continuous movement of the imager lenses allow for a continuous zoom and the discrete motion of the afocal fold mirror to bypass the afocal optical path provides for either a larger discrete jump in magnification or enables the continuation of the of the zoom range from 3.42 to 11.7 . The discrete jump in magnification occurs if the imager is not reset to its shortest focal length when the bypass mirror is removed from the optical path. The reflective nature of the afocal enables the increase in the zoom range with no bearing on the chromatic properties of the dual band lens thus maintaining the dual band zoom capability.

The shorter focal positions where the focal length is 130.0 mm and less are achieved by merely the use of the imager and a bypass mirror as shown in which keeps the light from entering the magnified afocal and directs the light onto the imager. Alternatively instead of a bypass mirror the fold mirror between the afocal and imager could by flipped in and out of the field of view to enable the imager to operate without passing through the magnified afocal. shows one configuration of this circumstance where the imager at a focal length of 130 mm and f 3.0 utilizes the bypass mirror to pass light through only the imager. Thus the dual band continuous zoom imager with zoom range of 3.42 is allowed to image between the focal lengths of 38 130 mm. show an exemplary series of all of these positions as stepped through the full zoom range of the system to provide an overall magnification change of 11.7 . If examined from widest field of view to narrowest the fields of view changes from to . In the widest field of view is observed as the imager is in its shortest focal length position and the afocal bypass mirrors are used to form an overall focal length of 38 mm at f 3.0. shows the next significant position where the imager is at its longest focal length of 130 mm while operating at f 3.0 with the afocal bypass mirror in place. All of the focal length positions between these two values are achieved as previously discussed. To continue the zoom the afocal bypass mirror is moved out of the way and the imager zoom lenses are moved back to the original position of where they achieved the 38 mm focal length. The optical path now passes through both the afocal and the imager in its widest field of view position to create an overall system focal length of 130 mm at f 3.0 as seen in . The imager zoom lenses are then moved to longer focal lengths and zoomed up to the point where the focal length equals 222.5 mm as shown in . At this point in order to continue zooming to longer focal lengths it is necessary to change the aperture stop diameter to maintain the entrance pupil smaller than 74.1 mm. The f number is scaled by a factor of two by changing the diameter of the aperture by the same amount. The f number thus changes to 6 and the diameter of the aperture is cut in half. The lens can then continue to zoom from 222.5 mm to 445 mm without violation of the maximum aperture constraint. shows the optical path with the focal length at 300 mm and shows the optical path at the maximum system focal length of 445 mm. Both of these are at an f number value of 6. The entrance pupil diameter of this narrowest field of view matches that of the entrance pupil diameter at half its field of view. The diagram in shows the various focal lengths f numbers and aperture values for each corresponding focal length position. Any position where the aperture is smaller than 74.1 mm at f 3 is operated at f 3.0. All other positions operate at f 6.0. Other f number combinations are feasible. It is also not necessary to change the f number at all if a larger aperture is acceptable but the dual f number approach enables the maximization of focal length versus minimization of aperture size.

It is obvious that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as described.

