---

title: Device hold determination using bone conduction
abstract: Concepts and technologies are disclosed herein for device hold determination using bone conduction. According to one aspect, a device side transducer of a user device can receive a bone conduction signal from a user side transducer. The bone conduction signal can propagate through one or more bones of a user, such as one or more finger bones. An application can be executed by a processor of the user device to analyze the bone conduction signal to determine how the device is being held. In some embodiments, data regarding how the user device is being held by the user can be exposed to an application that is executable by the processor of the user device, an application external to the user device, an operating system that is executable by the user device, and/or a website.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582071&OS=09582071&RS=09582071
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09582071
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140910
---
Today smartphones and other mobile devices such as handheld video game systems and tablets utilize advanced sensors to provide feedback to a user and or to one or more applications that are executing on the device. For example some devices include sensors such as accelerometers to detect motion and or sensors such as gyroscopes to detect orientation. Data output by these sensors can be utilized to change an operation of the device such as to wake the device from sleep or launch an application.

Concepts and technologies are disclosed herein for device hold determination using bone conduction. According to one aspect a device side transducer of a user device can receive a bone conduction signal from a user side transducer. The bone conduction signal can propagate through one or more bones of a user such as one or more finger bones. An application can be executed by a processor of the user device to analyze the bone conduction signal to determine how the device is being held.

In some embodiments data regarding how the user device is being held by the user can be exposed to an application that is executable by the processor of the user device an application external to the user device an operating system that is executable by the user device and or a website.

In some embodiments the device side transducer of the user device is built in to the user device. In some embodiments the device side transducer of the user device is attached to the user device. In some embodiments the device side transducer is built in to a case or other component of the user device such as a display of the user device.

In some embodiments the user side transducer is built in to a device worn by the user. For example the user side transducer might be built in to a smart watch or other wearable device. In some embodiments the user side transducer is attached to a device worn by the user. In some embodiments the user side transducer is attached to or worn directly by the user or is disposed underneath the skin or within the body of the user.

In some embodiments the user device triggers the user side transducer to send the bone conduction signal. For example the user device can send a signal trigger to the user side transducer via a connection established between the user device and the user side transducer. The connection may be wireless or wired.

In some embodiments the user device can receive a reference signal. In these embodiments the analysis performed by the application to determine how the device is being held can include a comparison of the bone conduction signal to the reference signal to associate the bone conduction signal with at least a portion of a hand of the user to determine how the user device is being held in the hand of the user. In some embodiments the user device can receive via a further device side transducer a further bone conduction signal from the user side transducer. The further bone conduction signal can be propagated through a further bone of the user. The analysis performed by the application to determine how the user device is being held in the hand of the user can be further based upon a comparison of the further bone conduction signal to the reference signal to associate the further bone conduction signal with at least a further portion of the hand of the user to determine how the user device is being held in the hand of the user

In some embodiments the user device can receive output from one or more sensors. In these embodiments the analysis performed by the application to determine how the user device is being held by the user can further consider the output from the sensor s .

According to another aspect a processor of a user device that is executing an application can cause presentation of a user interface associated with the application on a display of the user device. The user device can receive via the application data regarding how the user device is being held by the user. The processor of the user device also can cause the user interface of the application to be modified to accommodate how the user device is being held by the user. The processor of the user device also can cause presentation of the user interface on the display as modified to accommodate how the user device is being held by the user.

In some embodiments the user device also can receive via the application input via the user interface as modified to accommodate how the user device is being held by the user. In these embodiments the user device can perform one or more operations in response to the input.

It should be appreciated that the above described subject matter may be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

While the subject matter described herein may be presented at times in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures computer executable instructions and or other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer systems including hand held devices mobile devices wireless devices multiprocessor systems distributed computing systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers routers switches other computing devices described herein and the like.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures example aspects of determining how a user is holding a device using bone conduction will be presented.

Referring now to aspects of an operating environment in which various embodiments presented herein may be implemented will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The illustrated operating environment includes a user s first hand A and a user s second hand B referred to herein collectively as user s hands that are holding a user device . In particular the user s first hand A is in contact with the user device at a first contact point A on the bottom side of the user device and at a second contact point B on the lower left side of the user device and the user s second hand B is in contact with a display of the user device at a third contact point C and a fourth contact point D.

The user device in some embodiments is or includes a desktop laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer a netbook computer a mobile telephone a smartphone a feature phone a video game system a handheld video game system a set top box a vehicle computing system a smart watch a personal fitness tracker a safety device a wearable device a music playback device a video playback device an internet appliance a television a personal digital assistant PDA combinations thereof or the like. It should be understood that the functionality of the user device can be provided by a single device by two or more similar devices and or by two or more dissimilar devices.

In the illustrated embodiment the user is wearing a watch on the second hand B. The watch includes one or more user side transducers . The user side transducer s in some embodiments are piezoelectric transducers such as contact microphones or other electro acoustic transducers. The user side transducer s can generate vibrations in accordance with one or more signals hereinafter vibration signals A D . The vibration signals A D can propagate through the user s body and more particularly through one or more bones of the user s body to the user device via bone conduction.

The user side transducer s can be built in to the watch . The user side transducer s can be attached to the watch . The user side transducer s can be built in to another device that is attached to or worn by the user. The user side transducer s can be attached to another device that is attached to or worn by the user. The user side transducer s can be attached to or worn directly on the skin e.g. as a tattoo or part of a tattoo underneath the skin or within the body of the user e.g. as an implantation device . As such the user side transducer s being built in to the watch in the illustrated embodiment should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The user device can receive the vibration signals A D via one or more device side transducers . The device side transducer s in some embodiments are piezoelectric transducers such as contact microphones or other electro acoustic transducers. The device side transducer s can be built in to the user device . The device side transducer s can be attached to the user device . The device side transducer s can be built in to a case that is placed on the user device . The device side transducer s can be built in to the display of the user device and or any other component of the user device . As such the device side transducer s being built in to the user device in the illustrated embodiment should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The user device can execute via one or more processors a signal detection and analysis application to detect the vibration signals A D received by the device side transducer s and to analyze the vibration signals A D to determine how the user is holding the user device . How the user is holding the user device can be defined at least in part by data associated with one or more contact points such as for example the contact points A D in the illustrated embodiment. The data associated with one or more contact points can include but is not limited to one or more unique effects of a portion of the user s body on one or more reference signals . The reference signal s can include the vibration signals A D prior to the vibration signals A D propagating through the bone s of the user s body.

One or more signal characteristics e.g. amplitude frequency and or phase of the vibration signals A D can be modified during propagation through the user s body by for example the height weight body fat percentage body muscle percentage and or bone characteristics such as bone density bone structure and bone mass of the user s body. More particularly in the illustrated example the vibration signal A is shown propagating through a first finger A on the first hand A of the user to the user device at the first contact point A the vibration signal B is shown propagating through a second finger B of the first hand A of the user to the user device at the second contact point B the vibration signal C is shown propagating through a third finger C of the second hand B of the user to the user device at the third contact point C and the vibration signal D is shown propagating through a fourth finger D of the second hand B of the user to the user device at the fourth contact point D. The first finger A the second finger B the third finger C and the fourth finger D may be referred to herein collectively as fingers . Due to variations in the size structure density and or bone mass of the fingers the vibration signals during propagation through at least the fingers can be modified so as to distinguish the fingers and the associated contact points A D

In addition to data associated with the contact points A D data output by one or more sensors of the user device can be used by the signal detection and analysis application to determine how the user is holding the user device . The sensor s can include but are not limited to accelerometers gyroscopes magnetometers and or other sensors the output of which can be used at least in part to determine how the user is holding the user device and more particularly with regard to an orientation and or movement of the user device for example. The sensor s also can include other sensors such as but not limited to temperature sensors light sensors air quality sensors other movement sensors other orientation sensors noise sensors proximity sensors infrared sensors noise sensors microphones combinations thereof and or the like.

The data regarding how the user is holding the user device can be provided by the signal detection and analysis application to one or more applications and or to an operating system . The application s can include but are not limited to productivity applications entertainment applications video applications music applications video game applications camera applications messaging applications social network applications enterprise applications map applications security applications presence applications visual voice mail applications text to speech applications speech to text applications email applications calendar applications camera applications web browser applications and the like. The application s can execute on top of an operating system . The operating system can include a member of the SYMBIAN OS family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED a member of the WINDOWS MOBILE OS and or WINDOWS PHONE OS families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION a member of the PALM WEBOS family of operating systems from HEWLETT PACKARD CORPORATION a member of the BLACKBERRY OS family of operating systems from RESEARCH IN MOTION LIMITED a member of the IOS family of operating systems from APPLE INC. a member of the ANDROID OS family of operating systems from GOOGLE INC. and or other operating systems. These operating systems are merely illustrative of some contemplated operating systems that may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein and therefore should not be construed as being limiting in any way. The signal detection and analysis application can be a standalone application or can be included as part of the application s or the operating system . In some embodiments operations available from the signal detection and analysis application can be exposed via one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown .

In the illustrated embodiment the user device can communicate with the watch via a wireless connection . Establishment of the wireless connection can be initiated by the user device or the watch . The wireless connection can be created using BLUETOOTH BLUETOOTH LOW ENERGY near field communications NFC ad hoc WI FI WI FI ZIGBEE other radio frequency technologies infrared infrared data association IRDA combinations thereof and the like. Although the wireless connection is shown a wired connection can be established between the user device and the watch . Moreover multiple wireless and or wired connections can be utilized between the user device and the watch and or one or more other devices that each include for example one or more of the user side transducer s . As such the configuration shown in this regard should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The user device and more particularly the signal detection and analysis application can generate one or more triggers . The trigger s can be generated in response to an output of one or more sensors such as touch sensors gyroscopes accelerometers or the like that is indicative of a user holding the user device . The trigger s can be generated in response to an input entered by a user. The trigger s can be generated in response to an instruction received by the signal detection and analysis application from one or more of the applications . The trigger s can be utilized by the watch to instruct the user side transducer s to send the reference signal s and or the vibration signals A D to the user device . The trigger s can be bone conduction or simple capacitance detection. For example when the user picks up the user device the user side transducer s can detect the capacitive field around the user s body. After the user device detects the capacitive field the user device can trigger one or more operations to determine how the user device is being held.

Turning now to the user device the display the user side transducer s and the device side transducer s introduced in are again shown. In the illustrated example the user is in contact with the display of the user device using the third finger C the fourth finger D and a fifth finger E on the user s second hand B. The user side transducer s as shown in the illustrated example are transmitting the vibration signal C through the third finger C the vibration signal D through the fourth finger D and the vibration signal E through the fifth finger E. The device side transducer s and particularly a first device side transducer A a second device side transducer B and a third device side transducer C are shown receiving propagated signals A C which have been sent through the user s body and more particularly through one or more bones of the user s body.

Each of the device side transducers A C can receive the propagated signals A C but due to the location of each of the device side transducers A C the signal characteristics of the propagated signals A C as received will vary for each of the device side transducers A C. In the illustrated example each of the propagated signals A C is shown with three signal contributions corresponding to the device side transducers A C respectively. It should be understood however that a different number of signal contributions can be received proportionate to the number of device side transducers utilized in a given application although other implementations may utilize greater or fewer signal contributions. Also in the illustrated example the device side transducers A C are embedded in the user device such as in a casing not shown of the user device .

The device side transducers A C receive the propagated signals A C and transmit the propagated signals A C to the signal detection and analysis application . The signal detection and analysis application can isolate the signal contributions from each of the fingers received at each of the device side transducers A C. By comparing the time differences for each unique signal contribution between the device side transducers A C the signal detection and analysis application can determine the relative location of each of the sources i.e. each of the fingers . By comparing the unique signal contributions to the reference signal s best shown in and in some embodiments using reference information describing the impacts each finger has on a transmitted signal the signal detection and analysis application can associate each source with a specific one of the fingers . The reference information for example can be gathered during a training process in which signals from each finger are captured and stored in association with the corresponding finger. The signal detection and analysis application can then make this information available to the application s the operating system one or more websites not shown and or other systems devices and or applications. An application may alter a user interface based on how the user is holding the user device . It is contemplated that an application might associate different controls or more diverse controls with different fingers and gestures. Which finger or fingers are used might be accomplished at least in part by a process of elimination based on how the user device is being held.

The quantity and arrangement configuration of the device side transducers may vary with device cost as well as the general design and construction of the user device . While three device side transducers should be sufficient additional device side transducers may be used to simplify analysis and or to increase accuracy. As such the illustrated example should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to aspects of a method for determining how the user device is being held by a user using bone conduction will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. It should be understood that the operations of the methods are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all of the operations in an alternative order s is possible and is contemplated. The operations have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Operations may be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

It also should be understood that the methods disclosed herein can be ended at any time and need not be performed in their respective entireties. Some or all operations of the methods and or substantially equivalent operations can be performed by execution of computer readable instructions included on a computer storage media as defined herein. The term computer readable instructions and variants thereof as used herein is used expansively to include routines applications application modules program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Computer readable instructions can be implemented on various system configurations including the user device the watch single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics other devices and systems disclosed herein combinations thereof and the like.

Thus it should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These states operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. As used herein the phrase cause a processor to perform operations and variants thereof refers to causing one or more processors such as the processor s of a computing system or device such as the user device another device disclosed herein or another system disclosed herein to perform one or more operations and or causing the processor to direct other components of the computing system or device to perform one or more of the operations.

For purposes of illustrating and describing some of the concepts of the present disclosure the methods disclosed herein are described as being performed at least in part by the user device via execution by the processor s of one or more software modules and or software applications such as for example the signal detection and analysis application the application s and or the operating system . It should be understood that additional and or alternative devices and or network nodes can provide the functionality described herein via execution of one or more modules applications and or other software. Thus the illustrated embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method will be described with reference to and further reference to . The method begins at operation where the user device via the device side transducer s receives one or more bone conduction signals such as the propagated signals A C best shown in from the user side transducer s . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device analyzes the bone conduction signal s . In some embodiments an analysis at operation can include a comparison of the bone conduction signal s to one or more reference signals such as the reference signal s best shown in .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device determines based at least in part upon the analysis performed at operation how the user device is being held by the user. For example the signal detection and analysis application can isolate the signal contributions from each of the fingers received at each of the device side transducers . By comparing the time differences for each unique signal contribution between the device side transducers the signal detection and analysis application can determine the relative location of each of the sources i.e. each of the fingers . By comparing the unique signal contributions to the reference signal s best shown in and in some embodiments using reference information describing the impacts each finger has on a transmitted signal the signal detection and analysis application can associate each source with a specific one of the fingers which can then be used to describe how the user device is being held by the user. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the signal detection and analysis application can then expose the data regarding how the user device is being held by the user to the application s the operating system one or more websites not shown and or other systems devices and or other applications.

Turning now to aspects of a method for modifying a user interface based upon how the user device is being held by a user as determined using bone conduction will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. The method will be described with reference to and further reference to . The method begins at operation where an application such as one of the application s or the operating system executed by the user device receives data regarding how the user device is being held by the user. In some embodiments the data regarding how the user device is generated in accordance with the method described above.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the application modifies a user interface to accommodate how the user device is being held by the user. Turning briefly to a user interface diagram illustrating aspects of a user interface that is modified based upon how the user device is being held as determined using bone conduction will be described according to an illustrative embodiment as but one example of how the application can modify a user interface to accommodate how the user device is being held by the user. In the example illustrated in a first configuration of the user interface is shown when the user is in contact with a casing of the user device but not the display of the user device and a second configuration is shown when the user is in contact with the display of the user device . In the first configuration a plurality of icons are shown on the display and in the second configuration the plurality of icons are again shown but are displayed in decreased size in response to the user holding a portion of the display that in the first configuration would impede the user s view of the plurality of icons. It should be understood that this example is but one example of how a user interface can be modified in response to how a user is holding the user device and as such this example should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the application presents the modified user interface such as the second configuration of the user interface shown in on the display of the user device . From operation the method proceeds to optional operation where the application receives input and performs one or more operations in response to the input. In the example shown in the application that generates the user interface e.g. the operating system can receive selection of one of the plurality of icons and the associated application which may be one of the applications is then launched.

Turning now to aspects of a method for comparing one or more bone conduction signals to one or more reference signals to determine how the user device is being held by a user will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. The method will be described with reference to and further reference to . The method begins at operation where the user side transducer s receive a signal trigger such as the trigger best shown in from the user device via a wireless connection such as the wireless connection also best shown in .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user side transducer s send one or more vibrations signals such as the vibration signals A D to the user device via bone conduction through the user s body and more particularly through one or more bones of the user s body in response to the trigger received at operation .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user side transducer s send one or more reference signals such as the reference signal s to the user device via the wireless connection . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device receives the vibration signal s A D via the device side transducer s and the reference signal s via the wireless connection . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device compares the vibration signal s A D and the reference signal s to determine how the user device is being held by the user. For example the signal detection and analysis application can isolate the signal contributions of the vibration signal s A D from each of the fingers received at each of the device side transducers into unique signal contributions. By comparing the time differences for each unique signal contribution between the device side transducers the signal detection and analysis application can determine the relative location of each of the sources i.e. each of the fingers . By comparing the unique signal contributions to the reference signal s and in some embodiments using reference information describing the impacts each finger has on a transmitted signal the signal detection and analysis application can associate each source with a specific one of the fingers which can then be used to describe how the user device is being held by the user.

Turning now to an illustrative mobile device and components thereof will be described. In some embodiments the user device described above can be configured as and or can have an architecture similar or identical to the mobile device described herein in . It should be understood however that the user device may or may not include the functionality described herein with reference to . While connections are not shown between the various components illustrated in it should be understood that some none or all of the components illustrated in can be configured to interact with one other to carry out various device functions. In some embodiments the components are arranged so as to communicate via one or more busses not shown . Thus it should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a general understanding of a suitable environment in which various aspects of embodiments can be implemented and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As illustrated in the mobile device can include a display for displaying data. According to various embodiments the display can be configured to display various graphical user interface GUI elements text images video advertisements various prompts virtual keypads and or keyboards messaging data notification messages metadata internet content device status time date calendar data device preferences map and location data combinations thereof and the like. The mobile device also can include a processor and a memory or other data storage device memory . The processor can be configured to process data and or can execute computer executable instructions stored in the memory . The computer executable instructions executed by the processor can include for example an operating system e.g. the operating system one or more applications e.g. the signal detection and analysis application and the application s other computer executable instructions stored in a memory or the like. In some embodiments the applications also can include a UI application not illustrated in .

The UI application can interface with the operating system to facilitate user interaction with functionality and or data stored at the mobile device and or stored elsewhere. In some embodiments the operating system can include a member of the SYMBIAN OS family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED a member of the WINDOWS MOBILE OS and or WINDOWS PHONE OS families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION a member of the PALM WEBOS family of operating systems from HEWLETT PACKARD CORPORATION a member of the BLACKBERRY OS family of operating systems from RESEARCH IN MOTION LIMITED a member of the IOS family of operating systems from APPLE INC. a member of the ANDROID OS family of operating systems from GOOGLE INC. and or other operating systems. These operating systems are merely illustrative of some contemplated operating systems that may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein and therefore should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The UI application can be executed by the processor to aid a user in entering content viewing account information answering initiating calls entering deleting data entering and setting user IDs and passwords for device access configuring settings manipulating address book content and or settings multimode interaction interacting with other applications and otherwise facilitating user interaction with the operating system the applications and or other types or instances of data that can be stored at the mobile device . The data can include user preferences user settings the baseline signal storage component and or other data. The applications can include for example the signal detection and analysis application the application s presence applications visual voice mail applications messaging applications text to speech and speech to text applications add ons plug ins email applications music applications video applications camera applications location based service applications power conservation applications game applications productivity applications entertainment applications enterprise applications combinations thereof and the like. The applications the data and or portions thereof can be stored in the memory and or in a firmware and can be executed by the processor . The firmware also can store code for execution during device power up and power down operations. It can be appreciated that the firmware can be stored in a volatile or non volatile data storage device including but not limited to the memory and or a portion thereof.

The mobile device also can include an input output I O interface . The I O interface can be configured to support the input output of data such as location information user information organization information presence status information user IDs passwords and application initiation start up requests. In some embodiments the I O interface can include a hardwire connection such as USB port a mini USB port a micro USB port an audio jack a PS2 port an IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE port a serial port a parallel port an Ethernet RJ45 port an RJ11 port a proprietary port combinations thereof or the like. In some embodiments the mobile device can be configured to synchronize with another device to transfer content to and or from the mobile device . In some embodiments the mobile device can be configured to receive updates to one or more of the applications via the I O interface though this is not necessarily the case. In some embodiments the I O interface accepts I O devices such as keyboards keypads mice interface tethers printers plotters external storage touch multi touch screens touch pads trackballs joysticks microphones remote control devices displays projectors medical equipment e.g. stethoscopes heart monitors and other health metric monitors modems routers external power sources docking stations combinations thereof and the like. It should be appreciated that the I O interface may be used for communications between the mobile device and a network device or local device.

The mobile device also can include a communications component . The communications component can be configured to interface with the processor to facilitate wired and or wireless communications with one or more networks. In some embodiments other networks include networks that utilize non cellular wireless technologies such as WI FI or WIMAX. In some embodiments the communications component includes a multimode communications subsystem for facilitating communications via the cellular network and one or more other networks.

The communications component in some embodiments includes one or more transceivers. The one or more transceivers if included can be configured to communicate over the same and or different wireless technology standards with respect to one another. For example in some embodiments one or more of the transceivers of the communications component may be configured to communicate using Global System for Mobile communication GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA CDMAONE CDMA2000 Long Term Evolution LTE and various other 2G 2.5G 3G 4G and greater generation technology standards. Moreover the communications component may facilitate communications over various channel access methods which may or may not be used by the aforementioned standards including but not limited to Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Wideband CDMA W CDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division multiplexing OFDM Space Division Multiple Access SDMA and the like.

In addition the communications component may facilitate data communications using Generic Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Date Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE the High Speed Packet Access HSPA protocol family including High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced Uplink EUL or otherwise termed Highs Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA HSPA and various other current and future wireless data access standards. In the illustrated embodiment the communications component can include a first transceiver TxRx A that can operate in a first communications mode e.g. GSM . The communications component also can include an Ntransceiver TxRx N that can operate in a second communications mode relative to the first transceiver A e.g. UMTS . While two transceivers A N hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as transceivers are shown in it should be appreciated that less than two two and or more than two transceivers can be included in the communications component .

The communications component also can include an alternative transceiver Alt TxRx for supporting other types and or standards of communications. According to various contemplated embodiments the alternative transceiver can communicate using various communications technologies such as for example WI FI WIMAX BLUETOOTH infrared IRDA NFC other RF technologies combinations thereof and the like.

In some embodiments the communications component also can facilitate reception from terrestrial radio networks digital satellite radio networks internet based radio service networks combinations thereof and the like. The communications component can process data from a network such as the Internet an intranet a broadband network a WI FI hotspot an Internet service provider ISP a digital subscriber line DSL provider a broadband provider combinations thereof or the like.

The mobile device also can include one or more sensors . The sensors can include temperature sensors light sensors air quality sensors movement sensors orientation sensors noise sensors proximity sensors or the like. As such it should be understood that the sensors can include but are not limited to accelerometers magnetometers gyroscopes infrared sensors noise sensors microphones combinations thereof or the like. Additionally audio capabilities for the mobile device may be provided by an audio I O component . The audio I O component of the mobile device can include one or more speakers for the output of audio signals one or more microphones for the collection and or input of audio signals and or other audio input and or output devices.

The illustrated mobile device also can include a subscriber identity module SIM system . The SIM system can include a universal SIM USIM a universal integrated circuit card UICC and or other identity devices. The SIM system can include and or can be connected to or inserted into an interface such as a slot interface . In some embodiments the slot interface can be configured to accept insertion of other identity cards or modules for accessing various types of networks. Additionally or alternatively the slot interface can be configured to accept multiple subscriber identity cards. Because other devices and or modules for identifying users and or the mobile device are contemplated it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The mobile device also can include an image capture and processing system image system . The image system can be configured to capture or otherwise obtain photos videos and or other visual information. As such the image system can include cameras lenses charge coupled devices CCDs combinations thereof or the like. The mobile device may also include a video system . The video system can be configured to capture process record modify and or store video content. Photos and videos obtained using the image system and the video system respectively may be added as message content to an MMS message email message and sent to another mobile device. The video and or photo content also can be shared with other devices via various types of data transfers via wired and or wireless communication devices as described herein.

The mobile device also can include one or more location components . The location components can be configured to send and or receive signals to determine a geographic location of the mobile device . According to various embodiments the location components can send and or receive signals from global positioning system GPS devices assisted GPS A GPS devices WI FI WIMAX and or cellular network triangulation data combinations thereof and the like. The location component also can be configured to communicate with the communications component to retrieve triangulation data for determining a location of the mobile device . In some embodiments the location component can interface with cellular network nodes telephone lines satellites location transmitters and or beacons wireless network transmitters and receivers combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the location component can include and or can communicate with one or more of the sensors such as a compass an accelerometer and or a gyroscope to determine the orientation of the mobile device . Using the location component the mobile device can generate and or receive data to identify its geographic location or to transmit data used by other devices to determine the location of the mobile device . The location component may include multiple components for determining the location and or orientation of the mobile device .

The illustrated mobile device also can include a power source . The power source can include one or more batteries power supplies power cells and or other power subsystems including alternating current AC and or direct current DC power devices. The power source also can interface with an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component . Because the mobile device can include additional and or alternative components the above embodiment should be understood as being illustrative of one possible operating environment for various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein. The described embodiment of the mobile device is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The computer system includes a processing unit a memory one or more user interface devices one or more input output I O devices and one or more network devices each of which is operatively connected to a system bus . The bus enables bi directional communication between the processing unit the memory the user interface devices the I O devices and the network devices .

The processing unit may be a standard central processor that performs arithmetic and logical operations a more specific purpose programmable logic controller PLC a programmable gate array a system on a chip or other type of processor known to those skilled in the art and suitable for controlling the operation of the server computer. Processing units are generally known and therefore are not described in further detail herein.

The memory communicates with the processing unit via the system bus . In some embodiments the memory is operatively connected to a memory controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The memory includes an operating system e.g. the operating system and one or more program modules . The operating system can include but is not limited to members of the WINDOWS WINDOWS CE and or WINDOWS MOBILE families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION the LINUX family of operating systems the SYMBIAN family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED the BREW family of operating systems from QUALCOMM CORPORATION the MAC OS and or iOS families of operating systems from APPLE CORPORATION the FREEBSD family of operating systems the SOLARIS family of operating systems from ORACLE CORPORATION other operating systems and the like.

The program modules may include various software and or program modules to perform the various operations described herein. The program modules can include for example the signal detection and analysis application and or the application s . The program modules and or other programs can be embodied in computer readable media containing instructions that when executed by the processing unit perform one or more of the operations described herein. According to embodiments the program modules may be embodied in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Although not shown in it should be understood that the memory can be or can include the baseline signal storage component. The memory can also store other data if desired.

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include any available computer storage media or communication media that can be accessed by the computer system . Communication media includes computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM Erasable Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer system . In the claims the phrase computer storage medium and variations thereof does not include waves or signals per se and or communication media.

The user interface devices may include one or more devices with which a user accesses the computer system . The user interface devices may include but are not limited to computers servers personal digital assistants cellular phones or any suitable computing devices. The I O devices enable a user to interface with the program modules . In one embodiment the I O devices are operatively connected to an I O controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as but not limited to a keyboard a mouse or an electronic stylus. Further the I O devices may include one or more output devices such as but not limited to a display screen or a printer.

The network devices enable the computer system to communicate with other networks or remote systems via a network . Examples of the network devices include but are not limited to a modem a radio frequency RF or IR transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router or a network card. The network may include a wireless network such as but not limited to a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN such as provided via BLUETOOTH technology a Wireless Metropolitan Area Network WMAN such as a WiMAX network or metropolitan cellular network. Alternatively the network may be a wired network such as but not limited to a Wide Area Network WAN a wired LAN such as provided via Ethernet a wired Personal Area Network PAN or a wired Metropolitan Area Network MAN .

Turning now to details of a network will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The network includes a cellular network a packet data network for example the Internet and a circuit switched network for example a publicly switched telephone network PSTN . The cellular network includes various components such as but not limited to base transceiver stations BTSs Node B s or e Node B s base station controllers BSCs radio network controllers RNCs mobile switching centers MSCs mobile management entities MMEs short message service centers SMSCs multimedia messaging service centers MMSCs home location registers HLRs home subscriber servers HSSs visitor location registers VLRs charging platforms billing platforms voicemail platforms GPRS core network components location service nodes an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS and the like. The cellular network also includes radios and nodes for receiving and transmitting voice data and combinations thereof to and from radio transceivers networks the packet data network and the circuit switched network .

A mobile communications device such as for example a cellular telephone a user equipment a mobile terminal a PDA a laptop computer a handheld computer the user device and combinations thereof can be operatively connected to the cellular network . The cellular network can be configured as a 2G GSM network and can provide data communications via GPRS and or EDGE. Additionally or alternatively the cellular network can be configured as a 3G UMTS network and can provide data communications via the HSPA protocol family for example HSDPA EUL also referred to as HSUPA and HSPA . The cellular network also is compatible with 4G mobile communications standards such as LTE or the like as well as evolved and future mobile standards.

The packet data network includes various devices for example servers computers databases and other devices in communication with another as is generally known. The packet data network devices are accessible via one or more network links. The servers often store various files that are provided to a requesting device such as for example a computer a terminal a smartphone or the like. Typically the requesting device includes software a browser for executing a web page in a format readable by the browser or other software. Other files and or data may be accessible via links in the retrieved files as is generally known. In some embodiments the packet data network includes or is in communication with the Internet. The circuit switched network includes various hardware and software for providing circuit switched communications. The circuit switched network may include or may be what is often referred to as a plain old telephone system POTS . The functionality of a circuit switched network or other circuit switched network are generally known and will not be described herein in detail.

The illustrated cellular network is shown in communication with the packet data network and a circuit switched network though it should be appreciated that this is not necessarily the case. One or more Internet capable devices for example the user device a PC a laptop a portable device or another suitable device can communicate with one or more cellular networks and devices connected thereto through the packet data network . It also should be appreciated that the Internet capable device can communicate with the packet data network through the circuit switched network the cellular network and or via other networks not illustrated .

As illustrated a communications device for example a telephone facsimile machine modem computer the user device or the like can be in communication with the circuit switched network and therethrough to the packet data network and or the cellular network . It should be appreciated that the communications device can be an Internet capable device and can be substantially similar to the Internet capable device .

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that concepts and technologies directed to device hold determination using bone conduction have been disclosed herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological and transformative acts specific computing machinery and computer readable media it is to be understood that the concepts and technologies disclosed herein are not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

