---

title: SLIM sensor design with minimum tail effect
abstract: Techniques for designs of single-layer touch sensors are described herein. In an example embodiment, a device comprises a sensor array. The sensor array comprises first plurality of electrodes and second plurality of electrodes that are interleaved without intersecting each other within a touch-sensing area in a single layer on a substrate of the sensor array. A first electrode (of the first or second plurality) comprises at least two shaped portions. The two shaped portions may be disposed across at least a portion of a given second electrode from each other, or may be disposed between two or more portions of the given second electrode. The two shaped portions of the first electrode are routed in different directions on the substrate and are coupled to each other outside of the touch-sensing area of the sensor array.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09389258&OS=09389258&RS=09389258
owner: PARADE TECHNOLOGIES, LTD.
number: 09389258
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140627
---
The present application claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 941 086 which was filed on Feb. 18 2014 and which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present application also claims priority as a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 229 524 filed on Mar. 28 2014 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 876 154 filed on Sep. 10 2013 and which also claims priority as a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 405 071 filed on Feb. 24 2012 which in turn claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 559 590 filed on Nov. 14 2011 and from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 446 178 filed on Feb. 24 2011. All applications referenced in this paragraph are incorporated by reference herein.

The present application also claims priority as a Continuation In Part of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 038 423 filed on Sep. 26 2013 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 785 131 filed on Mar. 14 2013 and which also 1 claims priority as a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 800 468 filed on Mar. 13 2013 which in turn claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 754 028 filed on Jan. 18 2013 and 2 claims priority as a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 405 071 filed on Feb. 24 2012 which in turn claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 559 590 filed on Nov. 14 2011 and from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 446 178 filed on Feb. 24 2011. All applications referenced in this paragraph are incorporated by reference herein.

Computing devices such as notebook computers personal digital assistants mobile communication devices portable entertainment devices e.g. handheld video games multimedia players etc. and set top boxes e.g. digital cable boxes digital video disc DVD players etc. may include user interface devices that facilitate interaction between a user and the computing device. One type of user interface device that has become common is a touch sensing device or touch input device that operates by way of capacitive sensing. A touch sensing device may be embodied as a touchscreen touch sensing pad touch sensing slider or touch sensing buttons and may include a touch sensor comprising an array of capacitive sensor elements. Capacitive sensing typically involves scan operations that periodically measure changes in capacitance associated with the capacitive sensor elements to determine a presence position and or movement of a conductive object e.g. a stylus a user s finger etc. relative to the touch sensor.

Touch sensors are an expensive part of a touch sensing device or the user interface system thereof. One reason for the high manufacturing cost of touch sensors is that conventional sensors use either multiple layers of electrode materials formed on multiple substrates or a single substrate with a series of jumpers to form electrical connection between the individual electrode segments and insulate them from the other electrodes that intersect them. One way to reduce the high cost of touch sensors is to route the trace portions or segments of electrodes tightly together on the active area of a single substrate without the use of jumpers . However this type of sensor construction leads to increased capacitive cross coupling between the electrodes e.g. especially in response to a conductive object touch thereby causing false touches inaccuracy and poor touch response linearity all of which limit the functionality of the touch sensing device and or lead to poor user experience.

The following description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of various embodiments of the techniques described herein for designs of single layer touch sensors e.g. such as touch sensors with Single Layer Independent Multi touch or SLIM electrode patterns with minimum easily correctable tail effects. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in a simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the techniques described herein. Thus the specific details set forth hereinafter are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Reference in the description to an embodiment one embodiment an example embodiment some embodiments and various embodiments means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment s is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. Further the appearances of the phrases an embodiment one embodiment an example embodiment some embodiments and various embodiments in various places in the description do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment s .

The description includes references to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the detailed description. The drawings show illustrations in accordance with exemplary embodiments. These embodiments which may also be referred to herein as examples are described in enough detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the embodiments of the claimed subject matter described herein. The embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized or structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the claimed subject matter. It should be understood that the embodiments described herein are not intended to limit the scope of the subject matter but rather to enable one skilled in the art to practice make and or use the subject matter.

Described herein are various embodiments of techniques for designs of a touch sensor with mutual capacitance and or self capacitance electrodes that are arranged in the same e.g. single layer of the substrate of the touch sensor. Unless expressly specified otherwise touch sensors are also referred to herein as sensor arrays touch sensor arrays touch panels touch sensor panels and the like.

As used herein contact refers to a physical touch of a conductive object e.g. a stylus a user s finger and the like on a stack up including a touch sensor and or to a hover in which the conductive object is sufficiently proximate to affect the sensor elements of the touch sensor without being in physical touch with the touch surface of the sensor. As used herein sensor element also referred to as unit cell refers to a discrete unit or location area e.g. adjacency of electrodes from which a measurement or signal can be obtained that is separate and distinct from measurements signals obtained from other units or location areas in the touch sensor.

In single layer touch sensors that use interleaved also referred to as interlaced electrodes without jumpers a conductive object may affect portions also referred to as segments from multiple electrodes thereby causing a change in the capacitance even of electrodes that are not directly under the contact by the conductive object and that should not register or otherwise detect the contact. Such parasitic signal coupling outside of the actual touch sensing area affected by the contact causes a parasitic signal increase or a parasitic signal decrease e.g. depending on the type of sensing mechanism used by the touch sensor . Such parasitic signal increase or decrease in one or more sensor elements of a touch sensor is referred to herein as a tail effect and a tail effect signal .

In one example embodiment a device comprises a sensor array. The sensor array comprises first plurality of electrodes and second plurality of electrodes that are interleaved without intersecting each other within a touch sensing area in a single layer on a substrate of the sensor array. A first electrode of the first or second plurality comprises at least two shaped portions that are positioned in association with a given second electrode. For example the two shaped portions of the first electrode may be positioned across the given second electrode from each other. In another example the second electrode may comprise two or more portions and the shaped portion s of the first electrode may be positioned between the portions of the second electrode. The two shaped portions of the first electrode are routed in different directions on the substrate and are coupled to each other outside of the touch sensing area of the sensor array.

In another example embodiment a sensor array comprises a substrate first plurality of electrodes and second plurality of electrodes. The first plurality of electrodes e.g. such as receive or RX electrodes and the second plurality of electrodes e.g. such as transmit or TX electrodes are interleaved interlaced without intersecting each other within a touch sensing area in a single layer on the substrate. A first shaped portion of a first electrode of the first plurality of electrodes is connected to a first primary trace of the first electrode and a second shaped portion of the first electrode is connected to a second primary trace of the first electrode. The first shaped portion and the second shaped portion of the first electrode are positioned in association with a second electrode of the second plurality of electrodes. For example the first shaped portion of the first electrode may be positioned across at least a portion of the second electrode from the second shaped portion of the first electrode. In another example the second electrode may comprise two or more portions and the shaped portion s of the first electrode may be disposed between the portions of the second electrode. The first primary trace of the first electrode extends in a first direction on the substrate and the second primary trace of the first electrode extends in a second direction on the substrate where the first primary trace is coupled to the second primary trace outside of the touch sensing area. In some aspects of this embodiment the first plurality of electrodes is disposed in multiple rows on the substrate and the second plurality of electrodes is disposed in multiple columns on the substrate and the first plurality of electrodes is disposed on the substrate in one of an X pattern an I pattern and an H pattern.

In another example embodiment a device comprises a sensor array. The sensor array comprises RX electrodes and TX electrodes where the RX electrodes and the TX electrodes are interleaved without intersecting each other within a touch sensing area in a single layer on a substrate of the sensor array. A first shaped portion of an RX electrode is connected to a first primary trace of the RX electrode and a second shaped portion of the RX electrode is connected to a second primary trace of the RX electrode. The first and second shaped portions of the RX electrode are positioned in association with a TX electrode. For example the first shaped portion of the RX electrode may be positioned across at least a portion of the TX electrode from the second shaped portion of the RX electrode. In another example the TX electrode may comprise two or more portions and the shaped portion s of the RX electrode may be disposed between the portions of the TX electrode. The first primary trace of the RX electrode extends in a first direction on the substrate and the second primary trace of the RX electrode extends in a second direction on the substrate where the first primary trace of the RX electrode is coupled to the second primary trace of the RX electrode outside of the touch sensing area of the sensor array. In some aspects of this embodiment a sensor element is formed by the first shaped portion of the RX electrode the second shaped portion of the RX electrode and a portion of the TX electrode that is positioned between the first and second shaped portions of the RX electrode. The sensor element represents an area of the sensor array from which a distinct measurement that represents a mutual capacitance between the RX electrode and the TX electrode can be measured. In some aspects the device further comprises a processing logic configured to perform a common mode filter operation. The common mode filter operation corrects both a common mode noise and a tail effect caused by contact from a conductive object where the contact affects the first shaped portion of the RX electrode but does not affect one or more shaped portions of one or more RX electrodes along the TX electrode that are different from the RX electrode.

In another example embodiment a system comprises a capacitive sensor array coupled to a capacitance sensor. The capacitive sensor array comprises RX electrodes and TX electrodes where the RX electrodes and the TX electrodes are interleaved without intersecting each other within a touch sensing area in a single layer on a substrate of the capacitive sensor array. A first shaped portion of a RX electrode is connected to a first primary trace of the RX electrode and a second shaped portion of the RX electrode is connected to a second primary trace of the RX electrode where the first and second shaped portions of the RX electrode are positioned in association with a TX electrode. For example the first shaped portion of the RX electrode may be positioned across at least a portion the TX electrode from the second shaped portion of the RX electrode. In another example the TX electrode may comprise two or more portions and the shaped portion s of the RX electrode may be disposed between the portions of the TX electrode. The first primary trace of the RX electrode extends in a first direction on the substrate and the second primary trace of the RX electrode extends in a second direction on the substrate where the first primary trace is coupled to the second primary trace outside of the touch sensing area of the sensor array. The capacitance sensor is configured to measure a plurality of measurements from the RX electrodes the plurality of measurements being representative of a conductive object that is in contact with the capacitive sensor array. In some aspects of this embodiment the system further comprises a display disposed under the capacitive sensor array and the capacitance sensor is configured to perform a common mode filter operation that corrects both a tail effect signal caused by the contact and a noise signal caused by the display.

In the example embodiment of the touch sensor includes sensor electrodes N where N is a positive integer that are interleaved without intersecting each other e.g. in a SLIM pattern on a single layer of a substrate. The touch sensor is coupled to pins N of the processing device via one or more analog buses transporting multiple signals. For illustration purposes in this embodiment each electrode N is represented as a capacitor. The self capacitance of each electrode in touch sensor is measured by a capacitance sensor in the processing device . Depending on the type of touch sensor in some embodiments the capacitance sensor may be configured to detect the mutual capacitance of an electrode when a conductive object e.g. stylus user s finger etc. is in contact with one or more electrodes.

Capacitance sensor also referred to as just sensor may include a relaxation oscillator or other means to convert a capacitance into a measured value. Capacitance sensor may also include a counter or timer to measure the oscillator output. The capacitance sensor may further include software components to convert the count value e.g. capacitance value into a detection decision also referred to as switch detection decision or relative magnitude. In some embodiments the measured value obtained by capacitance sensor may be a signal value that represents one or more characteristics of a signal in addition or instead of in some embodiments a signal value may be a value that is derived from the measured value based on a signal characteristic e.g. such as voltage and or current magnitude raw capacitance and the like. It should be noted that there are various known methods for measuring capacitance such as current versus voltage phase shift measurement resistor capacitor charge timing capacitive bridge divider charge transfer successive approximation sigma delta modulators charge accumulation circuits field effect mutual capacitance frequency shift or other capacitance measurement algorithms. It should also be noted that instead of evaluating the raw counts relative to a threshold a capacitance sensor may be evaluating other measurements to determine the user interaction. For example in a capacitance sensor having a sigma delta modulator the capacitance sensor may be evaluating the ratio of pulse widths of the output instead of the raw counts being over or under a certain threshold.

In the example embodiment of processing device further includes processing logic . Operations of processing logic may be implemented in firmware alternatively they may be implemented in hardware or software. Processing logic is configured to perform operations that correct simultaneously and or concurrently both tail effects and common mode noise as described herein. For example processing logic may receive measurements from capacitance sensor adjust the measurements to compensate eliminate tail effects and common mode noise signals and then use the adjusted measurements to determine the state of touch sensor such as whether an object e.g. a finger a stylus or the like is detected on or in proximity to the touch sensor e.g. determining the presence of the object where the object is detected on the touch sensor e.g. determining the location of the object tracking the motion of the object or other information related to an object detected at the touch sensor.

In another embodiment instead of performing the operations of the processing logic in a processing device e.g. such as processing device the processing device may send the raw data or partially processed data to a host e.g. such as host . As illustrated in host may include decision logic that performs some or all of the operations described above for processing logic . Operations of decision logic may be implemented in firmware hardware software or a combination thereof. Host may include a high level Application Programming Interface API in applications that perform routines on the received data such as compensating for sensitivity differences other compensation algorithms baseline update routines start up and or initialization routines interpolation operations scaling operations and or operations that correct both tail effects and common mode noise as described herein. The operations described with respect to the processing logic may be implemented in the decision logic the applications or in other hardware software and or firmware external to the processing device . In some other embodiments the processing device may be the host .

In another embodiment processing device may also include a non sensing actions block . This block may be used to process and or receive transmit data to and from the host . For example additional components may be implemented to operate with the processing device along with touch sensor e.g. keyboard keypad mouse trackball LEDs displays or other peripheral devices .

Processing device may reside on a common carrier substrate such as for example an integrated circuit IC die substrate or a multi chip module substrate. Alternatively the components of the processing device may be one or more separate integrated circuits and or discrete components. In one embodiment processing device may be a programmable system on a chip that is manufactured on a single IC die such as for example the Programmable System on a Chip PSoC processing device developed by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation San Jose Calif. Alternatively processing device may be one or more other processing devices known by those of ordinary skill in the art such as a microprocessor or central processing unit a controller a special purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable device. In an alternative embodiment for example processing device may be a network processor having multiple processors including a core unit and multiple micro engines. Additionally processing device may include any combination of general purpose processing device s and special purpose processing device s .

In one embodiment electronic system is implemented in a device that includes touch sensing surface as the user interface such as handheld electronics portable and or smart telephones cellular telephones notebook computers personal computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks keyboards televisions remote controls monitors handheld multimedia devices handheld video players gaming devices control panels of a household or industrial appliances or other computer peripheral or input devices. Alternatively electronic system may be used in other types of devices. It should be noted that the components of electronic system may include all the components described above. Alternatively electronic system may include only some of the components described above or include additional components not listed herein.

Capacitance sensor includes multiplexer control demultiplexer and multiplexer clock generator signal generator demodulation circuit and analog to digital converter ADC . ADC is further coupled with touch coordinate converter . Touch coordinate converter outputs a signal to processing logic .

The transmit and receive electrodes in matrix may be arranged so that each of the transmit electrodes is interleaved with the receive electrodes on the same e.g. a single substrate layer but without intersecting the receive electrodes and while maintaining electrical isolation from them. Thus each transmit electrode may be capacitively coupled with each of the receive electrodes. For example transmit electrode is capacitively coupled with receive electrode at sensor element area of matrix where the H shaped portion of receive electrode is interleaved within a portion of transmit electrode . In the electrode pattern illustrated in matrix the H shaped portions and their opposing shaped portions at the same horizontal level are electrically coupled to each other in the bezel portion not shown of touch sensor to form a single horizontal receive electrode while each transmit electrode runs vertically from the top to the bottom of matrix .

In some embodiments a capacitance sensor e.g. such as sensor in may be configured to use mutual capacitance sensing technique according to which a value representing mutual capacitance present at the sensor element area of two electrodes can be measured by a processing device e.g. such as processing device in . The change in this mutual capacitance at one or more sensor element areas allows a processing logic to determine the location of a contact on the touch sensor. With mutual capacitance sensing one set of electrodes e.g. such as the column electrodes are designated as transmit TX electrodes. The transmit electrodes are driven with a TX signal that is applied to the transmit electrodes by a transmit multiplexer. Another set of electrodes e.g. such as the row electrodes are designated as receive RX electrodes. Signal values representing the mutual capacitance of the sensor elements formed at the areas where the rows and columns of electrodes are interleaved with each other may be measured by sampling a signal on each of the receive electrodes. In some embodiments a receive multiplexer may be used to sample the signal on one or more of the receive electrodes and to provide the receive measurement signal back to the processing logic and or to another component of the processing device . In some embodiments the roles of RX and TX electrodes may be reversed for some particular scan operation s . For example in some scan operations the RX electrodes may be driven with a scan signal and the TX electrodes may be configured to measure signals that represent the mutual capacitance formed between the RX and TX electrodes.

Referring back to clock generator supplies a clock signal to signal generator which produces a transmit TX signal to be supplied to the transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment signal generator includes a set of switches that operate according to the clock signal from clock generator . The switches may generate a TX signal by periodically connecting the output of signal generator to a first voltage and then to a second voltage where said first and second voltages are different.

The output of signal generator is connected with demultiplexer which allows a TX signal to be applied to any of the M transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment multiplexer control controls demultiplexer so that the TX signal is applied to each transmit electrode in a controlled sequence. Demultiplexer may also be used to ground float or connect an alternate signal to the other transmit electrodes to which the TX signal is not currently being applied.

Because of the capacitive coupling between the transmit electrodes and the receive electrodes a TX signal applied to each transmit electrode induces a current within each of the receive electrodes. For instance when the TX signal is applied to transmit electrode through demultiplexer the TX signal induces a receive RX signal on the receive electrodes in matrix . The RX signal on each of the receive electrodes can then be measured in sequence by using multiplexer to connect each of the N receive electrodes to demodulation circuit in sequence.

Signal values representing the mutual capacitance associated with each sensor element e.g. the area where a given TX electrode is interleaved with a given an RX electrode can be sensed by selecting every available combination of TX electrode and RX electrode using demultiplexer and multiplexer . To improve performance multiplexer may also be segmented to allow more than one of the receive electrodes in matrix to be routed to additional demodulation circuits . In an optimized configuration where there is a 1 to 1 correspondence of instances of demodulation circuit with receive electrodes multiplexer may not be present in the system.

When a conductive object such as a finger approaches electrode matrix the object causes a decrease in the mutual capacitance between only some of the electrodes. For example if a finger is placed near sensor element area where transmit electrode is interleaved with receive electrode the presence of the finger will decrease the mutual capacitance between electrodes and . Thus the location of the finger on touch sensor can be determined by identifying the one or more receive electrodes having a decreased mutual capacitance and by identifying the transmit electrode to which the TX signal was applied at the time the decreased mutual capacitance was measured on the one or more receive electrodes.

By determining the mutual capacitances associated with each sensor element formed by the transmit and receive electrodes in matrix the locations of one or more touch contacts may be determined. The determination may be sequential in parallel or may occur more frequently at commonly used electrodes.

In some embodiments other methods for detecting the presence of a finger or conductive object may be used where the finger or conductive object causes an increase in capacitance at one or more electrodes which may be arranged in a particular interleaved pattern. For example a finger placed near an electrode of a touch sensor may introduce an additional capacitance to ground that increases the total capacitance between the electrode and ground. The location of the finger can be determined from the locations of one or more electrodes at which an increased capacitance is detected.

The induced current signal is rectified by demodulation circuit . The rectified current output by demodulation circuit can then be filtered and converted to a digital code by ADC .

The digital code may then be converted to touch location coordinates indicating a position of an input on touch sensor by touch coordinate converter . The touch location coordinates are transmitted as an input signal to processing logic . In one embodiment the input signal is received at an input to processing logic . In one embodiment the input may be configured to receive capacitance measurements indicating a plurality of row coordinates and a plurality of column coordinates. Alternatively the input may be configured to receive row coordinates and column coordinates.

In some embodiments processing logic may be configured to generate or to receive e.g. from touch coordinate receiver signal measurements that represent diff signals also referred to herein as diff signal values . For example processing logic may be configured to determine a diff signal for a given sensor element as the difference between the settled baseline e.g. expected or fully charged capacitance of a sensor element e.g. when a conductive object is not in contact with the touch sensor and the touch sensor is not being scanned and the capacitance of the sensor element that is measured as part of a scan operation e.g. when a conductive object may or may not be in contact with the touch sensor . The capacitance used to compute a diff signal for a sensor element may be a self capacitance and or a mutual capacitance of the sensor element.

In various embodiments the processing logic may compute the diff signals for each of the sensor elements in a touch sensor based on signal measurements that represent the self capacitances and or the mutual capacitances of the sensor elements. For example a self capacitance of a given sensor element may include a capacitance formed between the sensor element and a reference voltage e.g. such as ground . A mutual capacitance of a given sensor element may include a capacitance formed between the transmit and receive electrodes that form the sensor element and or one or more conductive objects e.g. such as a stylus or user s finger that are electrically insulated from the capacitive sensor element.

Attempts have been made in the past to reduce the number of layers and thus the manufacturing costs of touch sensors. In some embodiments single layer touch sensors are suited only for single touch reception. These touch sensors typically use a series of electrodes the widths of which linearly change from one end to the other end of an electrode. Using the signal variation along the electrode s length the coordinate of a touch along the electrode s axis is determined. The coordinate of the touch in the perpendicular direction to the electrode s axis is determined by a conventional digitization method. In other embodiments a single layer multiple touch sensor uses an array of pads filling the sensor area and each of the pads or electrodes are sensed individually in a self capacitance sensing mode. Such embodiments usually require independent traces for each of the sensing pads and a very large number of measuring channels and pins on the controller chip to get an acceptable accuracy for even a small size sensor.

According to the techniques described herein in some embodiments a touch sensing device includes a touch sensor that has a single layer active area. Additionally the touch sensing device is provided with a wiring scheme that minimizes the number of wires as well as the traces required to simultaneously detect multiple contacts e.g. such as touches . As a result the overall manufacturing costs of the touch sensor and correspondingly of the touch sensor device can be reduced.

For example in some embodiments the touch sensor may be laminated by roll to roll and the overlay may be made not only from glass but also from plastic e.g. such as Polymethyl Methacrylate PMMA or Acrylic glass. Some embodiments may use on cell stack ups in which the touch sensor stack up is integrated with the display panel e.g. by being placed between the color filter glass and the polarizer of the display panel. In some embodiments a touch sensor stack up may be built on the underside of an overlay glass cover which acts as the sensor substrate. Various embodiments may also use stack up layers in various combinations such as for example a glass overlay and one sensor film layer GF1 stack up PMMA overlay and one sensor film layer PF1 stack up glass overlay and one sensor film layer with connecting bridges G2 stack up glass overlay with one non film sensor layer G1M glass overlay and two sensor film layers GFF and glass overlay and one sensor layer on glass substrate GG stack up . Further various embodiments may use various number of layers in the touch sensor stack up which may result with stack ups having thickness in the ranges of 0.5 mm to 1.0 mm 0.6 mm to 1.2 mm 0.8 mm to 1.5 mm 1.0 mm to 1.8 mm and more generally in any sub range in the range from 0.5 mm to 1.8 mm. Thus the touch sensor stack up illustrated in is to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

An array of electrodes is formed on central portion of substrate which includes a first set or plurality of electrodes also referred to as first electrodes and a second set or plurality of electrodes also referred to as second electrodes . First electrodes and second electrodes are all formed on the same e.g. a single layer of substrate but without intersecting each other and while maintaining electrical isolation from each other. In some embodiments in order to form the first and second electrodes a layer of transparent conductive material such as indium tin oxide ITO or a silver nano particle film may be deposited on or over substrate . As will be described in more detail hereinafter first electrodes may be used as receive RX electrodes and second electrodes may be used as transmit TX electrodes during scan operations that are performed on touch sensor . It should be understood however that these TX and RX roles are merely exemplary and may be reversed in various other embodiments. For example in some scan operations the RX electrodes may be driven with a scan signal and the TX electrodes may be configured to measure signals that represent the mutual capacitance formed between the RX and TX electrodes.

According to the techniques for designs of single layer touch sensors described herein a first electrode comprises at least two shaped portions at least two primary traces and one or more secondary traces where the primary traces and the shaped portion of the first electrode are disposed in the active touch sensing area of the touch sensor. As used herein a primary trace is also referred to as a line or a trace line . A shaped portion of an electrode has width that is greater than the width of a primary trace and a geometric shape that is different from a substantially straight line. A shaped portion is electrically connected to a respective primary trace that runs in a respective direction and each primary trace is electrically coupled to a secondary trace in a non active non sensing area of the touch sensor corresponding to the respective direction. A given first electrode includes a first shaped portion and a second shaped portion where the first shaped portion and the second shaped portion are disposed in association with at least a portion of a given second electrode. The second shaped portion of a first electrode is also referred to as opposing shaped portion and opposing portion hereinafter. For example the first shaped portion of the given first electrode may be disposed across at least a portion of the given second electrode from the second shaped portion of the first electrode. In another example the given second electrode may comprise two or more portions and the shaped portion s of the first electrode may be disposed between the portions of the second electrode. The first shaped portion of a given first electrode is electrically connected to a first primary trace that runs in a first direction and the second opposing shaped portion is electrically connected to a second primary trace that runs in a different e.g. opposing direction than the first direction. The first primary trace and the second primary trace of a given electrode are coupled to each other outside of the touch sensing area e.g. in the non sensing bezel area of the touch sensor e.g. via first and second corresponding secondary traces. A given primary trace of a given first electrode is routed in the active area of the touch sensor in a given direction along at least a portion of one or more other primary traces of one or more other first electrodes that are disposed in the active area of the touch sensor. Further a given primary trace of a given first electrode is routed in the active area along at least a portion of a given second electrode. A given secondary trace which electrically couples a given primary trace of a given first electrode is routed in the non active area e.g. such as a bezel portion of the touch sensor. Thus a given primary trace of a given first electrode can be affected by a contact from a conductive object which can contribute to changes in the signals measured from the given first electrode during a scan operation because the given primary trace is routed in the active touch sensing area of the touch sensor. On the other hand a given secondary trace is typically not affected by such contact because the secondary trace is routed in the non active non sensing area of the touch sensor and therefore does not have an effect on the signals measured from the first electrode during the scan operation.

Referring to second electrodes are disposed substantially vertically and may extend from a top non active area or bezel portion to a bottom bezel portion not shown . In the portion of touch sensor depicted in three second electrodes e.g. and and two first electrodes e.g. and are included. The three second electrodes are arranged substantially vertically and may extend along substantially the entire length of central portion of substrate . It should be understood though that other embodiments may use different numbers of second electrodes that may extend in directions other than vertical.

As an illustration in first electrodes are arranged in rows and second electrodes are arranged in columns where each of the rows includes one of the first electrodes and each of the columns includes one of the second electrodes . Each of first electrodes includes a substantially H shaped portion and an opposing e.g. substantially I shaped portion where the two shaped portions are disposed across one of second electrodes from each other. Each of the H shaped portions of a given first electrode is interleaved with a respective one of the second electrodes e.g. in an interdigitated pattern . Within each row the H shaped portions and the opposing shaped portions of a given first electrode are electrically coupled to each other by means of corresponding primary and secondary traces where the primary traces for each row are coupled to corresponding secondary traces and the secondary traces for each row are coupled to each other in a non sensing area of touch sensor .

For example first electrode includes three H shaped portions e.g. each of which is electrically connected to a respective primary trace e.g. correspondingly that extends in a downward direction to the bottom non sensing area of touch sensor . First electrode also includes three opposing shaped portions e.g. each of which is electrically connected to a respective primary trace e.g. correspondingly that extends in an upward direction to the top bezel portion . The primary traces e.g. of the H shaped portions are electrically connected to a secondary trace that is located in the bottom non sensing area of touch sensor and the primary traces e.g. of the opposing shaped portions are electrically connected to a corresponding secondary trace in the top bezel portion . Secondary trace and the secondary trace for the H shaped portions of first electrode are coupled to each other somewhere not shown in in the non sensing area of touch sensor . As illustrated in first electrode includes similarly arranged H shaped and opposing shaped portions primary traces and secondary traces. It is noted that the specific electrode patterns shown in are merely exemplary and thus other electrode shapes and interleave patterns which may not necessarily be interdigitated are possible and within the scope of the techniques described herein.

The first electrodes the second electrodes and the primary traces may be made of indium tin oxide ITO and may be formed in a substantially planar manner on the same e.g. a single substrate layer. That is although not specifically shown in the first electrodes the second electrodes and the primary traces may have substantially the same thickness and may lay in substantially the same plane.

As illustrated in an insulating material or body or layer is formed or otherwise attached to the bezel portion of substrate . The insulating material covers the end portions of the primary traces that extend onto the bezel portion but it should be noted that the insulating material does not extend over the central portion of substrate . The insulating material may be made of for example an epoxy or resin material and have a thickness of for example between 5 and 25 micrometers m that is deposited on substrate . In some embodiments the insulating material may be a flexible substrate such as a flexible printed circuit FPC attached to substrate . The insulating material electrically separates a given secondary trace from at least some of the primary traces . For example in the insulating material insulates the secondary trace from the primary traces that are connected to first electrode and from the primary traces of those other first electrodes that are different from electrode

The secondary traces or plurality of conductors are formed on the insulating material in the bezel portion of substrate . In one embodiment the secondary traces are made of silver. Of interest in the embodiment of is that a given secondary trace e.g. such as is electrically connected to the primary traces e.g. such as that are associated with a given first electrode e.g. such as in a given one and only one of rows . Further in the embodiment of a separate secondary trace is electrically coupled to a corresponding one of second electrodes . For example secondary trace is coupled to second electrode . To reduce the routing area in the bezel portion in some embodiments the trace width and spacing of the secondary traces in the bezel area may be minimized. For example a metal trace line width of 10 50 m and a spacing of 10 50 m may be used in the bezel area. Further in some embodiments the secondary traces may be disposed in multiple layers in the bezel area e.g. with each such layer being electrically isolated from the others and or on the opposite side of the substrate from the first and second electrodes.

In various embodiments a touch sensor may include an additional set of ground traces. In an additional set of ground traces is formed in the active area of touch sensor and is routed substantially in parallel to the second electrodes . An example of such additional traces is ground trace which extends substantially in parallel adjacent to second electrode . A ground trace may be used to provide a ground in order to electrically isolate a given second electrode from the immediately neighboring adjacent primary traces that are connected to the shaped portions of first electrodes . As such each of the ground traces may be electrically connected to at least one of the secondary traces that is coupled to the system ground. Further in some embodiments the shaped portions of the first electrodes may have substantially the same shape and or width in order to provide a shield from the primary traces and or shaped portions of other RX electrodes. For example as illustrated in first shaped portion of electrode has substantially the same shape width of second shaped portion of electrode and the shaped portions and are arranged across electrode in a way that provides shielding for electrode

In operation the secondary traces are coupled to e.g. are in operable communication with an electronic system e.g. such as the system illustrated in in order to perform scan operations on touch sensor . In a scan operation touch sensor is operated by providing a signal to each one referred to as the driven TX electrode of the second electrodes in turn while grounding the remaining second electrodes . Signals are induced in those first electrodes RX electrodes that have shaped portions interleaved with the driven TX electrode because of the capacitive coupling therebetween. The signals induced in the RX electrodes are measured and or recorded by a processing logic in the electronic system. The measured recorded signals may change from pre determined baseline value s due to the presence of a conductive object e.g. such a finger or stylus that is in contact with a portion of touch sensor . A signal change e.g. from a baseline value measured on the RX electrodes is indicative of change in the capacitance e.g. in the mutual capacitance between one or more of the RX electrodes and the driven TX electrode. After measuring the signals on the RX electrodes the scan operation continues by providing a signal to the next TX electrode and measuring the corresponding RX electrodes in the same manner.

The tail effect in a single layer touch sensor may be a parasitic signal increase or a parasitic signal decrease in one or more sensor elements in response to a contact by a conductive object e.g. a stylus a user s finger etc. with the touch sensor. In some embodiments the tail effect for a given sensor element is caused by a parasitic signal coupling between a TX electrode and a primary trace of that element s RX electrode whose corresponding shaped portions are outside the actual contact area and are thus not affected by the contact.

A single layer touch sensor with conventional design typically uses one directional routing in which a primary trace for an electrode e.g. such as an RX electrode extends in one particular direction towards a non sensing area of the touch sensor. Such one directional routing leads to one directional tail effect as illustrated in .

One way to improve the accuracy of single layer touch sensors is to use various compensation algorithms e.g. as executed in firmware or performed by other processing logic to compensate for and correct the tail effect based on signal values that are derived from measurements obtained from the touch sensor. The techniques described herein however provide for a different and or additional mechanism that relies on the design of the single layer touch sensors to minimize inaccuracies that are caused by tail effect.

According to the techniques described herein single layer touch sensor designs are provided in which the same first electrode e.g. RX electrode of a touch sensor is routed in two different e.g. opposing directions along a given second electrode e.g. TX electrode of the touch sensor. Such multi directional electrode routing makes the response functions of the sensor elements of the touch sensor more symmetrical which in turn results in a smaller minimum tail effect.

In touch sensor comprises an array of electrodes that is formed in the touch sensing area . The array of electrodes includes RX electrodes e.g. such as electrodes and TX electrodes e.g. such as electrodes . The RX electrodes and the TX electrodes are interleaved e.g. interlaced on the same e.g. a single substrate layer but without intersecting each other and while maintaining electrical isolation from each other. The RX electrodes are arranged in rows and the TX electrodes are arranged in columns where each of the rows includes one of the RX electrodes e.g. or etc. and each of the columns includes one of the TX electrodes e.g. or or etc . Each TX electrode e.g. is coupled to a corresponding secondary trace e.g. in the non sensing area of touch sensor . The various traces and shaped portions of each RX electrode are coupled together in the non sensing area of touch sensor . For example the shaped portions and the primary traces of RX electrode are coupled together over secondary trace s . Similarly the shaped portions and the primary traces of RX electrode are coupled together over secondary trace s 

As illustrated in each of the RX electrodes includes several pairs with each pair having a substantially H shaped portion and an opposing e.g. substantially I shaped portion where the two shaped portions in a given pair are disposed across one of the TX electrodes from each other to form a sensor element corresponding to that given pair. According to the techniques described herein the two shaped portions in a given pair are connected to corresponding primary traces that are routed in different directions with respect to the edges of touch sensor . For example sensor element is formed by RX electrode and TX electrode . The H shaped portion of RX electrode is interleaved with a portion of TX electrode where the opposing shaped portion of RX electrode is disposed across TX electrode from the H shaped portion . The H shaped portion is connected to primary trace that is routed in a downward direction towards the bottom non sensing portion while the opposing shaped portion is connected to primary trace that is routed in an upward direction towards the top non sensing portion . Primary traces and are coupled together via secondary trace s . As illustrated in RX electrode includes similarly arranged H shaped and opposing shaped portions and primary traces which are coupled together via secondary trace s in a similar manner.

During scan operations the secondary traces and are coupled to e.g. are in operable communication with an electronic system e.g. such as the system illustrated in in order to receive signal values representing mutual capacitances from the sensor elements of touch sensor . In an example scan operation touch sensor is operated by providing a signal to each TX electrode in turn e.g. via secondary traces or etc. while grounding the remaining non driven TX electrodes. Signals are induced in the RX electrodes that have shaped portions interleaved with the driven TX electrode because of the capacitive coupling therebetween. The signals induced in both the H shaped portion and the opposing portion of a given RX electrode are measured and or recorded by a processing logic in the electronic system together because the shaped portions of each given RX electrode are coupled to each other in the non sensing area of the touch sensor . The measured recorded signals may change from pre determined baseline value s due to the presence of a conductive object that is in contact with a portion of touch sensor . Signal changes e.g. from baseline values measured on the RX electrodes are indicative of change in the capacitance e.g. in the mutual capacitance between one or more of the RX electrodes and the driven TX electrode. After measuring the signals on the RX electrodes the scan operation continues by providing a signal to the next TX electrode and measuring the corresponding RX electrodes in the same manner. According to the techniques described herein since the RX electrodes in touch sensor are routed from both the top and the bottom non sensing portions of the touch sensor the response functions of the sensor elements formed by the RX electrodes are more symmetrical which results in a smaller minimum tail effect during the scan operations. As described below in some embodiments such smaller minimum tail effect can be eliminated by performing common noise reduction operations on the signal values obtained by the scan operations.

According to the techniques described herein in some embodiments the minimum symmetrical tail effect of a single layer touch sensor may be corrected eliminated with a common mode filter. In such embodiments a common mode filter may be implemented as a firmware operation that processes measurements and or diff signals derived from measurements received by a processing logic from scan operation s . It is noted however that a common mode filter may be implemented in various different ways in hardware firmware and or a combination thereof and for this reason the techniques described herein are not limited to any particular mechanism of implementing a common mode filter.

In conventional processing devices a common mode filter corrects for common mode noise or bias CMN or CMB . A common mode noise is typically noise from the display e.g. such as LCD noise that is positioned below the touch sensor although various implementations may have various sources of common mode noise. In general common mode noise is present for all sensor elements in a row column equally because a display or other source of common noise injects undesired signal equally to all electrodes of the touch sensor. Thus in conventional processing devices a common mode filter is used to successfully correct eliminate common noise. The techniques for designs of single layer touch sensors described herein leverage this property of common mode filters to correct for the minimum symmetrical tail effect that may be present for such designs. Because the primary traces of the RX electrodes extend in both e.g. opposing directions on the touch sensor any tail effect caused by contact from a conductive object is carried at least partially to all RX electrodes thereby affecting at least partially all sensor elements formed by an RX electrode that is scanned during a scan operation. Thus because of its symmetry the tail effect can be treated like common mode noise and can be removed automatically and along with common mode noise without any additional or specific processing or algorithms that are dedicated to correcting tail effect.

For example in some embodiments a device may include a processing logic that is configured to perform a common mode filter operation on measurements and or diff signals derived from measurements that are received from a scan operation on a given RX electrode in a single layer touch sensor. The common mode filter operation can correct both common mode noise and a tail effect which may be caused by contact from a conductive object that affects a shaped portion of the given RX electrode but is not in direct contact with one or more shaped portions of one or more different RX electrodes. The common mode filter operation may first compute the magnitude of the combined common mode noise and tail effect from the received and or derived measurements by estimating it from signals that are first determined to be over a certain threshold and that are then averaged. The common mode filter operation may then generate corrected measurements and or corrected diff signals by subtracting the magnitude of the combined common mode noise and tail effect from the received and or derived measurements.

In some embodiments the techniques for designs of single layer touch sensors described herein may minimize tail effect and may make contact profiles more symmetrical by using some or more of the following 

For example in some embodiments a single layer touch sensor design may include shield traces between RX electrodes and the TX electrode in neighboring sensor elements. Alternatively or in addition in some embodiments the shaped portions of RX electrodes may be arranged on both sides of a TX electrode to provide shielding. In cases where the tail effect goes in both directions the width of the shaped portions of RX electrodes may be chosen in such way that any diff signals obtained from scan measurements would exhibit common mode bias. After a common mode filter is applied no tails would be present in the profile of a contact on the touch sensor e.g. as illustrated in and thus any typical positioning algorithms e.g. such as centroid Blais and Rioux BR linear interpolation without tail correction etc. may be applied to obtain the e.g. x y position of the contact. In other cases the electrode pattern itself may be used to improve the results of the positioning algorithms. For example an H pattern can be used to control the horizontal position e.g. TX coordinate of the local maximum by changing the width of the left and right bars of the H shaped portion of the RX electrode as illustrated in below . Similarly other electrode patterns as illustrated in below that provide simplified contact profiles may be used.

Touch sensor comprises an array of electrodes that is formed in the touch sensing area . The array of electrodes includes RX electrodes e.g. such as electrodes etc. and TX electrodes e.g. such as electrodes etc . The RX electrodes and the TX electrodes are interleaved e.g. interlaced on the same e.g. a single substrate layer but without intersecting each other and while maintaining electrical isolation from each other. The RX electrodes are arranged in rows and the TX electrodes are arranged in columns where each of the rows includes one of the RX electrodes e.g. or or or or etc. and each of the columns includes one of the TX electrodes e.g. or or or or etc . Each TX electrode e.g. etc. is coupled to a corresponding secondary trace in the non sensing area s and or of touch sensor . The various traces and shaped portions of each RX electrode are coupled together somewhere not shown in the non sensing area s e.g. or of touch sensor . A set of ground traces is formed in the touch sensing area where each ground trace is routed to electrically isolate a given TX electrode from the immediately neighboring adjacent primary traces that are connected to those shaped portions of the RX electrodes that are interleaved within a neighboring TX electrode. For example ground trace isolates TX electrode from the primary traces connecting the H shaped portions of the RX electrodes that are interleaved within TX electrode

As illustrated in each of the RX electrodes includes several pairs with each pair having a substantially H shaped portion and an opposing e.g. substantially I shaped portion where the two shaped portions in a given pair are disposed across one of the TX electrodes from each other to form a sensor element corresponding to that given pair. According to the techniques described herein the two shaped portions in a given pair are connected to corresponding primary traces that are routed in different directions with respect to the edges of touch sensor . For example sensor element is formed by RX electrode and TX electrode . The H shaped portion of RX electrode is interleaved with a portion of TX electrode where the opposing shaped portion of RX electrode is disposed across TX electrode from the H shaped portion . The H shaped portion is connected to primary trace that is routed in a downward direction towards the bottom non sensing portion while the opposing shaped portion is connected to primary trace that is routed in an upward direction towards the top non sensing portion . Primary traces and are coupled together via secondary trace s somewhere in the non sensing area of touch sensor . As illustrated in RX electrodes and include similarly arranged H shaped and opposing shaped portions and primary traces which are coupled together via secondary trace s in a similar manner in the non sensing area of touch sensor .

In the embodiment illustrated in the H pattern of the RX electrodes can be used to affect the results for a local maximum diff signal that is caused by contact on touch sensor . The H pattern may be such that the left and right bars of the H shaped portion in any RX electrode can have different widths. Using RX electrode as an example the right bar is wider than the left bar . It is noted that the width of the left and or right bars may vary row by row e.g. from RX electrode to an RX electrode in another row . For example for RX electrode the left bar is wider than the right bar . However as illustrated in the right bar of RX electrode is wider than the right bar of RX electrode while the left bar of RX electrode is wider than the left bar of RX electrode . Further in the embodiment illustrated in the shaped portions of a given RX electrode in a given row have different widths and or heights than the shaped portions of RX electrodes in the other rows. For example the opposing shaped portion of RX electrode is wider than the opposing shaped portion of RX electrode

Touch sensor comprises an array of electrodes that is formed in the touch sensing area . The array of electrodes includes RX electrodes e.g. such as electrodes etc. and TX electrodes e.g. such as electrodes etc . The RX electrodes and the TX electrodes are interleaved e.g. interlaced on the same e.g. a single substrate layer but without intersecting each other and while maintaining electrical isolation from each other. The RX electrodes are arranged in rows and the TX electrodes are arranged in columns where each of the rows includes one of the RX electrodes e.g. or or or or etc. and each of the columns includes one of the TX electrodes e.g. or or or or etc . Each TX electrode e.g. etc. is coupled to a corresponding secondary trace in the non sensing area s and or of touch sensor . The various traces and shaped portions of each RX electrode are coupled together somewhere not shown in the non sensing area s e.g. or of touch sensor . A set of ground traces is formed in the touch sensing area where each ground trace is routed to electrically isolate a given TX electrode from the immediately neighboring adjacent primary traces that are connected to those shaped portions of the RX electrodes that are interleaved within a neighboring TX electrode. For example ground trace isolates TX electrode from the primary traces connecting the X shaped portions of the RX electrodes that are interleaved within TX electrode

As illustrated in each of the RX electrodes includes several pairs with each pair having a substantially X shaped portion and an opposing e.g. substantially I shaped portion where the two shaped portions in a given pair are disposed across one of the TX electrodes from each other to form a sensor element corresponding to that given pair. According to the techniques described herein the two shaped portions in a given pair are connected to corresponding primary traces that are routed in different directions with respect to the edges of touch sensor . For example sensor element is formed by RX electrode and TX electrode . The X shaped portion of RX electrode is interleaved with a portion of TX electrode where the opposing shaped portion of RX electrode is disposed across TX electrode from the X shaped portion . The X shaped portion is connected to primary trace that is routed in a downward direction towards the bottom non sensing portion while the opposing shaped portion is connected to primary trace that is routed in an upward direction towards the top non sensing portion . Primary traces and are coupled together via secondary trace s somewhere in the non sensing area of touch sensor . As illustrated in RX electrodes and include similarly arranged X shaped and opposing shaped portions and primary traces which are coupled together via secondary trace s in a similar manner in the non sensing area of touch sensor .

Touch sensor comprises an array of electrodes that is formed in the touch sensing area . The array of electrodes includes RX electrodes e.g. such as electrodes etc. and TX electrodes e.g. such as electrodes etc . The RX electrodes and the TX electrodes are interleaved e.g. interlaced on the same e.g. a single substrate layer but without intersecting each other and while maintaining electrical isolation from each other. The RX electrodes are arranged in rows and the TX electrodes are arranged in columns where each of the rows includes one of the RX electrodes e.g. or or or or etc. and each of the columns includes one of the TX electrodes e.g. or or or or etc . Each TX electrode e.g. etc. is coupled to a corresponding secondary trace in the non sensing area s and or of touch sensor . The various traces and shaped portions of each RX electrode are coupled together somewhere not shown in the non sensing area s e.g. or of touch sensor . A set of ground traces is formed in the touch sensing area where each ground trace is routed to electrically isolate a given TX electrode from the immediately neighboring adjacent primary traces that are connected to those shaped portions of the RX electrodes that are interleaved within a neighboring TX electrode. For example ground trace isolates TX electrode from the primary traces connecting the H shaped portions of the RX electrodes that are interleaved within TX electrode

As illustrated in each of the RX electrodes includes several pairs with each pair having a substantially H shaped portion and an opposing e.g. substantially I shaped portion where the two shaped portions in a given pair are disposed across one of the TX electrodes from each other to form a sensor element corresponding to that given pair. According to the techniques described herein the two shaped portions in a given pair are connected to corresponding primary traces that are routed in different directions with respect to the edges of touch sensor . For example sensor element is formed by RX electrode and TX electrode . The H shaped portion of RX electrode is interleaved with a portion of TX electrode where the opposing shaped portion of RX electrode is disposed across TX electrode from the H shaped portion . The H shaped portion is connected to primary trace that is routed in a downward direction towards the bottom non sensing portion while the opposing shaped portion is connected to primary trace that is routed in an upward direction towards the top non sensing portion . Primary traces and are coupled together via secondary trace s somewhere in the non sensing area of touch sensor . As illustrated in RX electrodes and include similarly arranged H shaped and opposing shaped portions and primary traces which are coupled together via secondary trace s in a similar manner in the non sensing area of touch sensor .

Touch sensor comprises an array of electrodes that is formed in the touch sensing area . The array of electrodes includes RX electrodes e.g. such as electrodes etc. and TX electrodes e.g. such as electrodes etc . The RX electrodes and the TX electrodes are interleaved e.g. interlaced on the same e.g. a single substrate layer but without intersecting each other and while maintaining electrical isolation from each other. The RX electrodes are arranged in rows and the TX electrodes are arranged in columns where each of the rows includes one of the RX electrodes e.g. or or or or etc. and each of the columns includes one of the TX electrodes e.g. or or or or etc . Each TX electrode e.g. etc. is coupled to a corresponding secondary trace in the non sensing area s and or of touch sensor . The various traces and shaped portions of each RX electrode are coupled together somewhere not shown in the non sensing area s e.g. or of touch sensor . A set of ground traces is formed in the touch sensing area where each ground trace is routed to electrically isolate a given TX electrode from the immediately neighboring adjacent primary traces that are connected to those shaped portions of the RX electrodes that are interleaved within a neighboring TX electrode. For example ground trace isolates TX electrode from the primary traces connecting the I shaped portions of the RX electrodes that are interleaved within TX electrode

As illustrated in each of the RX electrodes includes several pairs with each pair having a substantially I shaped portion and an opposing e.g. also substantially I shaped portion where the two shaped portions in a given pair are disposed across one of the TX electrodes from each other to form a sensor element corresponding to that given pair. According to the techniques described herein the two shaped portions in a given pair are connected to corresponding primary traces that are routed in different directions with respect to the edges of touch sensor . For example sensor element is formed by RX electrode and TX electrode . The I shaped portion of RX electrode is interleaved with a portion of TX electrode where the opposing shaped portion of RX electrode is disposed across TX electrode from the I shaped portion . The I shaped portion is connected to primary trace that is routed in a downward direction towards the bottom non sensing portion while the opposing shaped portion is connected to primary trace that is routed in an upward direction towards the top non sensing portion . Primary traces and are coupled together via secondary trace s somewhere in the non sensing area of touch sensor . As illustrated in RX electrodes and include similarly arranged I shaped and opposing shaped portions and primary traces which are coupled together via secondary trace s in a similar manner in the non sensing area of touch sensor .

Touch sensor comprises an array of electrodes that is formed in the touch sensing area . The array of electrodes includes RX electrodes e.g. such as electrodes etc. and TX electrodes e.g. such as electrodes etc . The RX electrodes and the TX electrodes are interleaved e.g. interlaced on the same e.g. a single substrate layer but without intersecting each other and while maintaining electrical isolation from each other. The RX electrodes are arranged in rows and the TX electrodes are arranged in columns where each of the rows includes one of the RX electrodes e.g. or or or or etc. and each of the columns includes one of the TX electrodes e.g. or or or or etc . Each TX electrode comprises two separate portions that extend from the top to the bottom of touch sensing area . For example TX electrode includes a left portion and a right portion . The portions of each TX electrode e.g. etc. are coupled to corresponding secondary trace s in the non sensing area s and or of touch sensor . The various traces and shaped portions of each RX electrode are coupled together somewhere not shown in the non sensing area s e.g. or of touch sensor . A set of ground traces is formed in the touch sensing area . For example ground trace runs between the two portions and of TX electrode and separates the primary traces of the I shaped portions of the RX electrodes that extend downward to bottom area from the primary traces of the I shaped portions of the RX electrodes that extend upward to top area .

As illustrated in each of the RX electrodes includes several pairs with each pair having a substantially I shaped portion and an opposing e.g. also substantially I shaped portion where the two shaped portions in a given pair are disposed between the portions of one of the TX electrodes to form a sensor element corresponding to that given pair. According to the techniques described herein the two shaped portions of an RX electrode in a given pair are connected to corresponding primary traces that are routed in different directions with respect to the edges of touch sensor . For example sensor element is formed by RX electrode and TX electrode . The I shaped portion of RX electrode is disposed to the right of portion of TX electrode and the opposing I shaped portion of RX electrode is disposed to the left of portion of TX electrode . The I shaped portion is connected to primary trace that is routed in a downward direction towards the bottom non sensing portion while the opposing I shaped portion is connected to primary trace that is routed in an upward direction towards the top non sensing portion . Primary traces and are coupled together via secondary trace s somewhere in the non sensing area of touch sensor . As illustrated in RX electrodes and include similarly arranged I shaped and opposing shaped portions and primary traces which are coupled together via secondary trace s in a similar manner in the non sensing area of touch sensor .

In some embodiments ground traces between TX electrodes and RX electrodes may not be needed. A ground trace e.g. such as ground trace in is typically used to separate a given TX electrode from sensor elements formed by portions of RX electrode s that are interleaved within neighboring TX electrodes thereby avoiding capacitive coupling of the given TX electrode to such sensor elements. However according to the techniques described herein such ground traces are not necessary in at least some of the single layer touch sensor designs described herein. One reason for this is that according to the techniques described herein a sensor element includes two portions of the same RX electrode with each portion being routed over a corresponding primary trace in a different e.g. opposing direction. Thus the shaped portions of the RX electrode act as shields in a similar manner as the ground traces. Another reason is that the portions of the RX electrode may be shaped in such way as to reduce the tail effect without a ground shield.

The widths of the primary and other traces of RX electrodes in single layer touch sensors are typically defined by the manufacturing process. For example in some embodiments the minimal trace width that can be provided by the manufacturer is in the range of 30 70 microns and the maximum trace width may vary depending on the space available for routing on the touch sensor and on the desired expected sensor characteristics. It is noted however that wider primary traces typically produce a relatively bigger tail effect.

According to the techniques described herein in various embodiments specific sensor related parameters may be selected in such way as to minimize the tail effect. Examples of such parameters include glass overlay thickness number and thickness of TX and RX electrodes and type of RX and or TX patterns.

For example in some embodiments the variation of the overlay e.g. glass thickness may affect the magnitude of the tail effect because less thick glass increases the capacitive based signal for each sensor element but also increases the tail effect. Typically a thicker glass is desirable only to provide mechanical strength of the stack up including the touch sensor.

In some embodiments the thickness of RX electrodes may vary within a pattern for each row of the touch sensor array which allows for design based adjustment of the sensitivity of each row. As a general rule the edges of a touch sensor should have electrodes with wider patterns or have a gradient of the signal from one edge to the other which can be achieved by varying the width of the electrodes from row to row and or column to column. In some embodiments the number of RX and TX electrodes in a touch sensor depends on the size of the touch panel and how much space is available for the touch sensing area. An example pitch of a touch sensor is typically in the range of 4 6 mm where in a 6 mm pitch it is typical to dedicate 30 of the touch sensing area for routing traces that are approximately 1.5 mm wide. Further in some embodiments the number of rows and columns of RX and TX electrodes may also depend on the type of the touch controller because the number of IO pins on the touch controller may determine how many rows columns of electrodes can be scanned.

In some embodiments the type of RX TX pattern used on a single layer touch sensor may depend on the available or desired manufacturing process. Since the TX and RX electrodes of a single layer touch sensor are interleaved on the same layer of the substrate manufacturing more complex electrode shapes requires more accurate tools and more complex electrode shapes increases the chances for shorts. Of the various electrode patterns that can be used according to the techniques described herein an I pattern is the easiest to manufacture because this pattern renders itself less likely to suffer from shorts caused by manufacturing inaccuracies errors.

It is noted that various modifications and changes can be made to the electrode patterns described heretofore without departing from the scope of the techniques described herein. For example electrode shapes may be modified from substantially rectangular to pentagon or octagon shapes for instance with touch sensor performance remaining relatively the same. Also extensions of electrodes can be made with curved boundaries.

Further some embodiments may use various other electrode shapes and patterns such as for example triangular sector and one fold spiral shapes and patterns. Examples of such alternative electrode shapes and patterns are illustrated in .

In some embodiments the single layer touch sensors described herein can be used for sensing various conductive e.g. metal objects in various applications. For example the touch sensors described herein can be used to improve sensitivity of measurement in industrial and biomedical applications. Performance improvement with the techniques described herein might be comparable to use of other interleaved sensors built with one layer of ITO.

In some embodiments the two shaped portions of a given RX electrode are coupled to each other e.g. over corresponding primary and secondary traces in the bezel of the touch sensor. However the two shaped portions of a given RX electrode can also be coupled outside of the bezel or even outside of the touch sensor altogether. For example some embodiments may use two connectors pins on the top and the bottom of the touch sensor that are coupled over PCB lines. An example of such arrangement may be used in tablets that can have 2 4 tails for each electrode on each side where the two four lines for a given RX electrode are coupled to the same pin on the PCB. In other embodiments a common electronics component e.g. a chip can be used to couple together the traces connected to the two shaped portions of a given RX electrode. An example of such arrangement may be found in embodiments using touch controllers that do not have a limited number of pins.

In some embodiments different materials may be used to form the touch sensor e.g. RX and TX electrodes such as copper aluminum silver or any suitable conductive material that may be appropriately patterned. Furthermore an FPC may be used to form the sensor electrodes. In such embodiments the various conductive layers in the FPC may be appropriately configured to form the array of TX and RX electrodes as described above as well as to form the primary traces thereof. As such it should be understood that the electrodes the traces and the insulating material or body may all be formed by a single appropriately configured FPC. As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art such embodiments may be particularly applicable to non transparent devices such as mouse pads track pads touch pads etc. Additionally in some embodiments the substrate may be made of other materials such as any suitable plastic including vinyl and polyamide which may not be transparent depending on the particular device.

In some embodiments a touch sensor may be formed by laying out the sensor electrodes using alternative conductive materials such as metal mesh. In such embodiments the sensor electrodes are formed by disposing metal mesh electrodes on PET substrate. In alternative embodiments the metal mesh sensor electrodes may be disposed on glass substrate. In other embodiments the sensor electrodes may be formed with silver nano wires on PET or silver nano wire on glass substrate. In other embodiments a touch sensor may be formed by bonding a glass or other transparent insulating lens onto another glass with the sensor electrode pattern disposed on. In yet other embodiments the touch sensor may be formed by bonding glass or other transparent insulating material onto a sheet of PET containing the sensor pattern.

In some embodiments a single layer structure may be used in the active area of the touch sensor while a multi layer structure may be used in the bezel or other non sensing portions of the touch sensor for routing the secondary traces. Such multi layer secondary routing allows the repeated use of the secondary traces so that the touch sensor uses the minimum number of traces and the minimum number of pins on the electronic system which drives the touch sensor thereby reducing the associated manufacturing costs.

In some embodiments the techniques described herein may be used not only for mutual capacitance touch sensors but also for touch sensors that can operate in self capacitance mode and or in mixed mutual capacitance self capacitance mode. Such application of the techniques described herein is possible for self capacitance touch sensors because they also provide multiple sensor elements that can be measured and that can produce a signal profile that can be analyzed.

Various embodiments of the techniques for design of single layer touch sensors described herein may include or use various operations. These operations may be performed by hardware components software firmware or a combination thereof. As used herein the term coupled to may mean coupled directly or indirectly through one or more intervening components. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally the interconnection between circuit components or blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be one or more single signal lines and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses.

Certain embodiments may include or use operations that are implemented as a computer program product that may include instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium e.g. such as volatile storage and or non volatile storage. These instructions may be used to program a touch sensing device that includes one or more general purpose or special purpose processors e.g. such as Central Processing Units or CPUs or equivalents thereof e.g. such as processing cores processing engines microcontrollers and the like so that when executed by the processor s or the equivalents thereof the instructions cause the device to perform the desired operations. A computer readable medium may also include one or more mechanisms for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application that is readable by a machine e.g. such as a device or a computer . The non transitory computer readable storage medium may include but is not limited to electromagnetic storage medium e.g. floppy disks hard disks and the like optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or another now known or later developed type of medium that is suitable for storing information.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

