---

title: Method of testing a communication system using a portable wideband antenna-radiated signal generator
abstract: A portable wideband harmonic signal generator includes circuitry for generating a signal having a selected fundamental frequency, for producing a signal having a harmonic series of the selected fundamental frequency, for transferring the signal having the harmonic series using a balanced impedance output, and for directionally transmitting transferred signal having the harmonic series using a directional antenna having a characteristic impedance that is matched to the balanced impedance output. There is thus provided a compact, efficient transmitter and antenna assembly for transmitting a wideband signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09219553&OS=09219553&RS=09219553
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09219553
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140219
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

This application is a divisional of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 167 935 filed on 24 Jun. 2011 and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 121 of the prior application s filing date.

This patent application is co pending with the following related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 167 935 by the same inventors Richard S. Frade and Kenneth White.

The present invention relates to high frequency communications and is directed more particularly to a design for a portable wideband antenna radiated signal generator.

Often personnel such as EM electromagnetic and communication engineers technicians require a test signal to be generated in order to perform continuity tests of an RF radio frequency transmission path through an antenna that is coupled to a receiver. To perform such tests the personnel are often required to carry relatively expensive sensitive large and heavy test equipment that inconveniently rely upon line power. The testing is especially even more problematic when operating on vessel platforms such as submarines where personnel are required to carry the test equipment through the submarine sail to conduct the test. Commonly encountered difficulties encountered while performing the tests include requirements that personnel must carry heavy and bulky test equipment that expensive equipment be available procedures that entail long test setup and breakdown times and the need for ship power to power the test equipment.

In Telewski U.S. Pat. No. 3 777 271 a step recovery diode is driven by two or more frequencies to form a harmonic generator.

In Nelson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 369 373 the step recovery diode 14 is disclosed that is driven by a sine wave oscillator 12. In response a wideband series of harmonics of the fundamental frequency is produced by frequency oscillator 12. The output of the step recovery diode 14 is supplied to one or more bandpass filters or lowpass filters which provide selection windows so that only a specified number of harmonic lines are passed within a selection window.

In Nellson U.S. Pat. No. 5 793 309 a short range electromagnetic transceiver is disclosed in which an oscillator 14 excites a step recovery diode 12. The output of step recovery diode 12 is provided to a filter 24 that acts as a harmonic filter and selects the particular frequency of transmission. The output of filter 24 is gated to produce a short RF pulse which is a harmonic of the input excitation signal and is in the GHz range. The short RF pulse is propagated normal to the circuit and through space until it is dissipated or reflected from a target back into the antenna .

As indicated in the references above a need still exists for an efficient portable wideband antenna radiated signal generator system design. An additional need exists for an energy efficient method for producing a wideband antenna radiated signal.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention is to provide a compact high efficiency transmitter and antenna.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide an energy efficient method for producing a non gated continuous wave wideband antenna radiated signal. Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from reading the disclosure herein.

In accordance with the present invention a portable wideband harmonic signal generator includes circuitry for generating a signal having a selected fundamental frequency for producing a signal having a harmonic series of the selected fundamental frequency for transferring the signal having the harmonic series using a balanced impedance output and for directionally transmitting transferred signal having the harmonic series using a directional antenna having a characteristic impedance that is matched to the balanced impedance output. There is thus provided a compact efficient transmitter and antenna assembly for transmitting a wideband signal.

The above and other features of the invention including various novel details of construction and combinations of parts will now be more particularly described with reference to the accompanying drawings and pointed out in the claims. It will be understood that the particular assembly embodying the invention is shown by way of illustration only and not as a limitation of the invention. The principles and features of this invention may be employed in various and numerous embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to a cross sectional view of the proximal end and side of an exemplary portable wideband antenna radiated signal generator is shown and referenced generally by numeral . Signal generator includes a housing that is arranged to be easily held in a single hand of a user. Housing encases and or otherwise captivates power unit human interface not shown wideband generator balun antenna and optional laser designator . Housing thus provides a common assembly for mounting various components of the signal generator

Power unit includes a power source such as a battery and is controllably actuated in response to mechanical actions and or electrical commands generated human interface. For example initial actuation of power unit causes power to be supplied to wideband generator .

The human interface is arranged to allow a user to select operating parameters for controlling wideband generator . For example a user can select a fundamental frequency from 0 Hz to over 1.5 GHz for generating a wideband signal based on the selected fundamental frequency output power of the wideband generator output signal harmonic spacing and operating mode such as off stand by and normal .

The wideband generator includes and as discussed further below with respect to a programmable signal generator for producing a variable fundamental frequency signal. The variable fundamental frequency signal is coupled directly or indirectly to a step recovery diode to produce an output signal that includes series of harmonics.

The output signal is coupled to balun for wideband impendence matching. Balun for example is a tapered stripline having 50 ohms unbalanced input impedance and 20 ohms balanced output impedance. A tapered stripline exhibits the characteristic of passing frequencies having wavelengths greater than around twice the length of the tapered portion of the tapered stripline. An example balun is discussed below with reference to and .

The output of balun is coupled to antenna . Antenna is arranged to maximize the efficiency of radiation and directionality of a wideband radiated signal thus contributing to the overall efficiency of signal generator . In an embodiment antenna is a traveling wave antenna arranged as a vee V shaped dipole antenna. Thus antenna is a passive component that exhibits relatively flat impedance characteristics over a wide range of input frequencies and minimizes reflection of input frequencies. When the fundamental frequency being broadcast has a wavelength that is greater than five times the length l of the antenna termination is not typically required. Otherwise proper termination of antenna results in substantially no reflections.

Each of the radiators of antenna are arranged in a vee shaped pattern having an angle of 2 where the angle is the angle between one radiator and the central axis of propagation of wideband radiated signal . The radiators of antenna arranged with the proximal portion of the antenna having the radiators more closely spaced together and the distal portion of the antenna having ends of the radiators spaced further apart. Angle 2 can be selected to maximize constructive interference of sidelobes radiated by each radiator along the central axis of propagation of wideband radiated signal .

The housing of signal generator includes an optional laser for designating a point in an area e.g. for targeting purposes that is irradiated by the signal generator . Laser is controlled by the human interface and powered by power unit . Laser can be configured to produce laser beam in response to the signal generator being programmed to radiate power. Thus laser can also serve as a warning indicator that the signal generator is actively transmitting.

Referring now to a diagram of another embodiment of portable wideband antenna radiated signal generator is shown. Signal generator includes a battery for purposes of supplying power to electrical components of the signal generator . The battery as well as the other components of signal generator is sized to fit with in a hand held housing of the signal generator . The power output of battery is coupled to power regulation circuit for control and regulation.

Micro controller is arranged to provide and receive human commands to and from a human interface . For example a user can use the human interface to provide commands for controlling the signal generator such as providing a command to activate e.g. turn on or deactivate the signal generator .

Such commands are received by the micro controller which in turn for example sends control signals to the power regulation circuit for switchably coupling power from the battery . The micro controller is arranged to control other components of the signal generator as further described below. In various modes of operation the micro controller may offer differing test scenarios to a user from which the user can select a particular test scenario . Each test scenario includes a list of values of various operating parameters so that the user is not required to individually enter each of the operating parameters of a particular test scenario.

The micro controller is arranged to control DDS direct digital synthesizer to provide a selectable fundamental frequency which is selected from a range including for example from DC direct current to a frequency above 1.5 GHz. DDS typically includes a crystal oscillator reference and is programmable in real time to produce a selected frequency. The frequency of the fundamental frequency is selected for example in response to a command received by the user interface . The DDS is controllably powered by power regulation circuit .

RF amplifier is coupled to the output of DDS such that the RF amplifier receives a fundamental frequency signal having a frequency as programmed by the micro controller . The RF amplifier is arranged to receive a command from the micro controller to specify an amount by which to amplify the received fundamental frequency signal. The RF amplifier is controllably powered by power regulation circuit .

RF switch is coupled to the output of the RF amplifier to receive the amplified fundamental frequency signal. The RF switch is arranged to receive a command from the micro controller to specify whether the amplified fundamental frequency signal is to be coupled to a lower frequency bypass path or a harmonic generator frequency path which tends to act as a high pass filter . The lower frequency bypass path is typically used when broadcast signals of the signal generator have lower frequencies e.g. from direct current to around 1.5 GHZ . Using the lower frequency bypass path when testing lower frequency responses can be used to avoid high pass filtering by impedance matching components such as wideband matching network discussed below of lower frequency components of the signal to be broadcast by signal generator .

Accordingly low frequency matching network is arranged to receive the amplified fundamental frequency signal when the RF switch is configured to couple the amplified fundamental frequency signal to the low frequency matching network . The low frequency matching network is arranged to receive the amplified fundamental frequency signal in an unbalanced medium and to provide the amplified fundamental frequency signal using a medium that is balanced with respect to transmitting wide band antennas .

The harmonic generator frequency path is selected when the RF switch is arranged to couple the amplified fundamental frequency signal e.g. received from the RF amplifier to the drive and bias network . When the harmonic generator frequency path is selected the drive and bias network is arranged to stabilize match impedances and drive the SRD step recovery diode . The SRD is a microwave diode having steep doping profiles and relatively narrow junctions for optimizing diode charge storage. The fast recovery of injected charge for the SRD provides a rapid transition period and efficiently produces a wide range of harmonics of the frequency of the amplified fundamental frequency signal. The operation of drive and bias network and SRD are described more fully below with respect to and .

The wideband harmonic output of SRD is coupled to wideband matching network . A wideband matching network matches the impedance of the output of SRD with the wideband antennas . An example of a wideband matching network is described below with respect to and . An example of wideband antennas is antenna that is described above with respect to .

Referring now to the operation of drive and bias network and SRD is now described. A network is formed by passive components choke capacitor and resistor capacitor choke capacitor and choke coupled to SRD . The network receives an input signal that includes a fundamental frequency at node Vin and provides an output signal at node Vout that includes harmonics of the received fundamental frequency of the input signal.

The amplified fundamental frequency signal from the RF amplifier for example is received at input node Vin. Choke capacitor and resistor are arranged as a high pass filter for increasing the stability of the output of the SRD . Resistor is selected to bias the input voltage of the SRD . A low pass filter is formed by capacitor and choke and is arranged to match the impedance of the network with the source impedance of the incoming amplified frequency signal. A second low pass filter is formed by capacitor and choke and is arranged to drive and enhance harmonic frequencies output by SRD .

Referring now to the input and output frequency characteristics of network are discussed. Plot represents an idealized fundamental frequency generated by DDS for example that is provided as an input to network . Plot represents an idealized frequency response of network to the input fundamental frequency. Plot illustrates a series of harmonics of the fundamental frequency wherein the amplitude of each harmonic generally decreases with increasing distance in frequency of each harmonic from the input fundamental frequency. Thus when the fundamental frequency is adjusted by changing a controllable input of DDS for example the spacing and location of the illustrated harmonics vary in response to the change of the fundamental frequency. The output of network is typically coupled to a wideband matching network such as balun .

Referring now to a wideband matching network for matching the output impedance of a harmonic generator to an input impedance of a wideband antenna is discussed. Wideband matching network is illustrated as a passive tapered micro stripline . Tapered micro stripline includes an input section the tapered middle section and an output section . Input proximal section has a characteristic impedance of around 25 ohms and is about 30 mils wide. Tapered middle section has a length that extends about 300 mils lengthwise and has a width that gradually tapers over the 300 mil distance of about 30 mils wide to about five mils wide. Output distal section has a characteristic impedance of around 50 ohms and is about five mils wide. Thus the characteristic impedance of tapered micro stripline gradually varies from input impedance of 25 ohms to an output impedance of 50 ohms across the length of the middle section . The frequency response of the tapered micro stripline is now discussed with reference to .

Additionally the signal generator can be used to perform signal to ratio SNR tests in conjunction with available communication system assets. For example a satellite can establish a communication session with a transceiver aboard vessel via antenna . A user can for example select a fundamental frequency or frequency spacing such as the comb spacing of harmonics and power level for a signal to be transmitted from the signal generator . As discussed above a user can select a test scenario which then selects test parameters appropriate for programming operational parameters of the signal generator to act as a signal generator for a particular test scenario. The level of the power output of the signal generator the distance of the signal generator to the antenna the frequency and or frequency spacing of the output power of the signal generator and the measured strength of a signal from the satellite can be used to determine the SNR response of the communication system.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

