---

title: Device, system and method of landmark-based and personal contact-based route guidance
abstract: A mapping system is disclosed that provides route guidance in the form of a map and verbal or textual directions which includes reference to both landmarks and personal contacts. Landmarks and contacts can be rated for suitability in providing route guidance. Depending on the rating, guidance using landmarks or personal contacts can be preferentially used in place of or to supplement guidance based on the underlying road network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09562781&OS=09562781&RS=09562781
owner: 
number: 09562781
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141208
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 785 294 entitled DEVICE SYSTEM AND METHOD OF LANDMARK BASED ROUTING AND GUIDANCE filed on Apr. 17 2007 which is herein incorporated by reference. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 785 284 entitled DEVICE SYSTEM AND METHOD OF CONTACT BASED ROUTING AND GUIDANCE filed on Apr. 17 2007 also which is herein incorporated by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

A mapping system may present a map of a geographical location selected by a user. The mapping system may further present driving directions that allow the user to drive from a first geographical location origin to a second geographical location destination . The driving directions may include a graphical component for example a graphical marking of the suggested driving route on a graphical map presented to the user. Additionally or alternatively the driving directions may include a textual component for example textual phrases instructing the user how to drive in order to reach the destination.

The driving directions may be road based. For example the textual driving directions may include phrases such as Drive north on Broadway for a distance of one mile Turn right at the corner of 37th Street Drive east on 37th street for a distance of half a mile or the like. Similarly graphical driving directions may include a map of the relevant area in which the route segments of the suggested driving route may be highlighted.

Unfortunately the driving directions provided by the mapping system may be difficult to use. For example a driver instructed to make a right turn on a certain street may miss the turn e.g. because of absence of an appropriate street sign at the relevant corner because of low visibility of the street sign or the like. Additionally some mapping systems may utilize or generate outdated maps incomplete maps or other outdated content or inaccurate content.

Some embodiments of the invention may include for example devices systems and methods of landmark based routing and guidance and or contact based routing and guidance.

In some embodiments an apparatus includes a route guidance information generator adapted to receive a plurality of personal contacts associated respectively with at least one of a plurality of road based addresses or a plurality of latitude and longitude data items and to generate route guidance information including a reference to at least one of the personal contacts.

In some embodiments the route guidance information generator is adapted to include the reference in the route guidance information based on an estimated efficiency of navigation using the reference.

In some embodiments the route guidance information includes a first portion of route guidance information corresponding to a route portion from an origin point to one of the personal contacts and a second portion of route guidance information corresponding to a route portion from one of the personal contacts to a destination point.

In some embodiments the route guidance information generator is adapted to determine a route from an origin point to a destination point wherein the route is different than the shortest route from the origin point to the destination point and wherein the route includes a reference to at least one personal contact.

In some embodiments the apparatus further includes a converter to convert the personal contacts from a first format associated with a computing device to a second format associated with a mapping system.

In some embodiments the apparatus further includes a map generator that generates a map including at least a portion of a route from an origin point to a destination point and an indication of a reference to at least one personal contact.

In some embodiments an apparatus includes a map generator adapted to receive a plurality of personal contacts associated respectively with at least one of a plurality of roadbased addresses or a plurality of latitude and longitude data items and to generate a map including a plurality of indications corresponding to the personal contacts.

In some embodiments positions of the indications on the map correspond to at least one of positions of the road based addresses or positions of the latitude and longitude data items.

In some embodiments the map generator is adapted to generate a map including a subset of indications corresponding respectively to a selected subset of the plurality of personal contacts.

In some embodiments the map generator is adapted to generate a map selectively including one or more indications corresponding respectively to one or more personal contacts located within a pre defined range from a destination point.

In some embodiments a method includes receiving a plurality of personal contacts associated respectively with at least one of a plurality of road based addresses or a plurality of latitude and longitude data items and generating route guidance information including a reference to at least one of the personal contacts.

In some embodiments generating includes for example including or inserting a reference in the route guidance information to at least one of the personal contacts based on an estimated efficiency of navigation using the reference.

In some embodiments generating includes generating a first portion of route guidance information corresponding to a route portion from an origin point to one of the personal contacts and generating a second portion of route guidance information corresponding to a route portion from one of the personal contacts to a destination point.

In some embodiments the method further includes determining a route from an origin point to a destination point wherein the route is different than the shortest route from the origin point to the destination point and wherein the route includes a reference to at least one personal contact.

In some embodiments the method further includes converting personal contacts from a first format associated with a computing device to a second format associated with a mapping system.

In some embodiments generating includes generating a map having at least a portion of a route from an origin point to a destination point and an indication of a reference to at least one personal contact.

In some embodiments a method includes receiving a plurality of personal contacts associated respectively with at least one of a plurality of road based addresses or a plurality of latitude and longitude data items and generating a map including a plurality of indications corresponding to personal contacts.

In some embodiments generating includes generating a map having positions of indications corresponding to at least one of positions of the road based addresses or positions of the latitude and longitude data items.

In some embodiments generating includes generating a map having a subset of indications corresponding respectively to a selected subset of a plurality of personal contacts.

In some embodiments generating includes generating a map selectively including one or more indications corresponding respectively to one or more personal contacts located within a pre defined range from a destination point.

In some embodiments an apparatus includes a route guidance information generator adapted to generate route guidance information including one or more road based references and one or more landmark based references.

In some embodiments the route guidance information generator is adapted to selectively include a landmark based reference in the route guidance information based on the efficiency of navigation using the landmark based reference.

In some embodiments the route guidance information generator is adapted to include in the route guidance information a reference to at least one of an address of a personal contact associated with a user or a latitude and longitude data item of the personal contact associated with the user.

In some embodiments the route guidance information generator is adapted to select based on one or more pre defined criteria a first landmark from a plurality of navigation landmarks and to generate route guidance information including a reference to the selected landmark.

In some embodiments the route guidance information generator is adapted to selectively include a reference to a first landmark in the route guidance information and to selectively exclude a reference to a second landmark from the route guidance information if a visibility of the first landmark from a route segment is greater than a visibility of the second landmark from the route segment.

In some embodiments the route guidance information generator is adapted to selectively include a reference to a first landmark in the route guidance information and to selectively exclude a reference to a second landmark from the route guidance information if the first landmark is included in a list of cooperating landmarks and the second landmark is not included in the list of cooperating landmarks.

In some embodiments the route guidance information generator is adapted to selectively include a reference to a first landmark in the route guidance information if it is contextually associated with a destination.

In some embodiments the route guidance information generator is adapted to generate route guidance information including a reference to an off route landmark.

In some embodiments the off route landmark is selected from a group consisting of landmarks located away from a node of the route landmarks located away from a route segment landmarks located away from an intersection of route segments landmarks located along a route segment and landmarks inaccessible by vehicle from the route.

In some embodiments the apparatus further includes a landmark database operably associated with at least one of a map generator a route generator and the route guidance information generator wherein the landmark database is adapted to store landmark description data associated with landmark location data and an updater to automatically update information stored in the landmark database based on input received from one or more client devices located remotely from the landmark database.

In some embodiments the input received consists of at least one of the following an input indicating a request to add a new landmark an input indicating a request to delete a landmark an input indicating a request to modify a landmark location and an input indicating a request to modify a landmark description.

In some embodiments at least one of the landmark description data and the landmark location data is associated with a quality indicator value

In some embodiments the route guidance information generator generates route guidance information including a reference to the landmark description data if the quality indicator value is greater than a pre defined threshold.

In some embodiments an apparatus includes a route guidance information generator adapted to generate route guidance information having a navigation reassurance information item.

In some embodiments the navigation reassurance information item includes an information item associated with a landmark visible from a segment of the route.

In some embodiments the navigation reassurance item includes information indicating to a traveler he she is on the correct route.

In some embodiments a method includes generating route guidance information including one or more road based references and one or more landmark based references.

In some embodiments the method further includes for example including or inserting a landmark based reference in the route guidance information based on efficiency of navigation using the landmark based reference.

In some embodiments the method includes for example including or inserting in the route guidance information a reference to at least one of an address of a personal contact associated with a user or a latitude and longitude data item of the personal contact associated with the user.

In some embodiments the method includes based on one or more pre defined criteria selecting a first landmark from a plurality of navigation landmarks and generating route guidance information including a reference to the landmark.

In some embodiments the method includes for example selectively including or inserting a reference to a first landmark in the route guidance information and selectively excludes a reference to a second landmark from the route guidance information if a visibility of the first landmark from a route segment is greater than a visibility of the second landmark from the route segment.

In some embodiments the method includes for example selectively including or inserting a reference to the first landmark in the route guidance information and selectively excludes a reference to a second landmark from the route guidance information if the first landmark is included in a list of cooperating landmarks and the second landmark is not included in the list of cooperating landmarks.

In some embodiments the method includes for example selectively including or inserting a reference to a first landmark in the route guidance information if the first landmark is contextually associated with a destination of the route.

In some embodiments the method includes generating route guidance information including a reference to an off route landmark.

In some embodiments generating route guidance information which includes an off route landmark selected from a group consisting of landmarks located away from a node of the route landmarks located away from a route segment landmarks located away from an intersection of route segments landmarks located along a route segment and landmarks inaccessible by vehicle from the route.

In some embodiments the method includes creating a landmark database operably associated with at least one of a map generator a route generator and the route guidance information generator wherein the landmark database is adapted to store landmark description data associated with landmark location data and the method further includes for example automatically updating information stored in the landmark database based on input received from one or more client devices located remotely from the landmark database.

In some embodiments updating includes information updates based on selected input received including for example an input indicating a request to add a new landmark an input indicating a request to delete a landmark an input indicating a request to modify a landmark location and an input indicating a request to modify a landmark description.

In some embodiments at least one of the landmark description data and the landmark location data is associated with a quality indicator value.

In some embodiments the method includes generating route guidance information including a reference to the landmark description data if the quality indicator value is greater than a pre defined threshold.

In some embodiments a method includes generating route guidance information including a navigation reassurance information item.

In some embodiments generating the navigation reassurance information item includes generating an information item associated with a landmark visible from a segment of the route.

In some embodiments generating the navigation reassurance information item includes generating an information item indicating to a traveler he she is on the correct route.

Some embodiments may include for example a computer program product including a computer useable medium including a computer readable program wherein the computer readable program when executed on a computer causes the computer to perform methods in accordance with some embodiments of the invention.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of some embodiments of the invention. However it will be understood by persons of ordinary skill in the art that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components units and or circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the discussion.

Embodiments of the invention may be used in a variety of applications. Some embodiments of the invention may be used in conjunction with various devices and systems for example a personal computer PC a desktop computer a mobile computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer a server computer a handheld computer a handheld device a personal digital assistant PDA device a handheld PDA device an on board device an off board device a hybrid device a vehicular device a non vehicular device a mobile or portable device a non mobile or non portable device a display unit a monitor a screen a projector a cathode ray tube CRT screen or monitor a liquid crystal display LCD screen or monitor a plasma screen or monitor a touch screen a projector device a set top box a wireless communication station a wireless communication device a wireless access point AP a modem a network a wireless network a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wireless MAN WMAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a personal area network PAN a wireless PAN WPAN devices and or networks operating in accordance with existing IEEE 802.11 802.11a 802.11b 802.11e 802.11g 802.11h 802.11i 802.11n 802.16 802.16d 802.16e standards and or future versions and or derivatives and or long term evolution LTE of the above standards units and or devices which are part of the above networks one way and or two way radio communication systems cellular radio telephone communication systems a cellular telephone a wireless telephone a personal communication systems PCS device a PDA device which incorporates a wireless communication device a mobile or portable global positioning system GPS device a device which incorporates a GPS receiver or transceiver or chip a device which incorporates an RFID element or chip a multiple input multiple output MIMO transceiver or device a single input multiple output SIMO transceiver or device a multiple input single output MISO transceiver or device or the like.

Some embodiments of the invention may be used in conjunction with one or more types of wireless communication signals and or systems for example radio frequency RF infra red IR frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal FDM OFDM time division multiplexing TDM time division multiple access TDMA extended TDMA E TDMA general packet radio service GPRS extended GPRS code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 multi carrier modulation MDM discrete multi tone DMT Bluetooth global positioning system GPS Wi Fi ZigBee global system for mobile communication GSM 2G 2.5G 3G 3.5G or the like. Embodiments of the invention may be used in various other devices systems and or networks.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard discussions utilizing terms such as for example processing computing calculating determining establishing analyzing checking or the like may refer to operation s and or process es of a computer a computing platform a computing system or other electronic computing device that manipulate and or transform data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computer s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer s registers and or memories or other information storage medium that may store instructions to perform operations and or processes.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the terms plurality and a plurality as used herein may include for example multiple or two or more . The terms plurality or a plurality may be used throughout the specification to describe two or more components devices elements units parameters or the like. For example a plurality of items may include two or more items.

Although portions of the discussion herein may relate for demonstrative purposes to wired links and or wired communications embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard and may include one or more wired links may utilize one or more components of wireless communication may utilize one or more methods or protocols of wireless communication or the like. Some embodiments of the invention may utilize wired communication and or wireless communication for example universal serial bus USB communication FireWire or IEEE 1394 communication Ethernet communication serial or parallel communication or the like.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the term mapping system as used herein may include for example a device or system able to generate and or render and or present a map a device or system able to geo locate and or geo translate a device or system able to selectively display landmarks on top of maps and or instead of maps and or in addition to maps a device or system able to generate and or render and or present one or more e.g. different map views a device or system able to generate and or present driving directions a device or system able to calculate or determine routes a device or system able to perform routing and or route selection a navigation device or system a location device or system a route guidance device or system or the like. Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the term mapping system as used herein may include for example one or more units devices or systems able to perform mapping routing route guidance generation displaying or presenting a map displaying or presenting a route displaying or presenting route guidance information dynamically modifying maps and or routes and or route guidance information e.g. utilizing GPS data or real time data or dynamic data or the like.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the term route guidance as used herein may include for example textual route guidance and or driving directions graphical route guidance and or driving directions audible route guidance and or driving directions projected route guidance and or driving directions printed route guidance and or driving directions route guidance and or driving directions generated and or presented using graphics and or audio and or video and or animation and or projections two dimensional 2D or three dimensional 3D rendering elevations walking directions flying directions or the like.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the term landmark as used herein may include for example various objects or items which may be used for route guidance navigation route recognition destination recognition or the like. In some embodiments a landmark may include for example a conspicuous object or item or structure that may be used to mark or distinguish a locality or a point of interest POI or an object or item or structure which may be used as a point of orientation or may facilitate recognizing or identifying a locality or a POI. In some embodiments a landmark may include a well known substantially permanent recognizable or easily recognizable geographic feature. In some embodiments a landmark may include for example a statue a sculpture a piece of art a water fountain a road sign a sign a public transport station a bus station a subway station a train station a playground a sports ground or field a monument a historical structure a utility structure a windmill a water container a water silo an agriculture structure an open market a parking a bridge a board walk a street sign an advertisement sign a billboard a tower a high building a structure a high structure a column a citadel a castle a high rise a pillar a skyscraper a building a wall a construction a formation a flag a beacon a clock tower an arc or the like. In some embodiments a landmark may include for example a business establishment a private house a public house a branch of a business establishment a bank a financial institution an entertainment venue a theater a cinema a stadium a ball field a supermarket a grocery store a shop a coffee shop a clothes shop a church a synagogue a religious center a hospital a medical center a medical clinic a school a university a sports arena or stadium a sports venue an entertainment venue a theater a museum a railway a train station a building or structure having a unique shape or size a building or structure which is relatively easily recognizable a well known building or structure a substantially permanent or non temporary structure land use feature s e.g. a lake a river a forest a dune or the like. In some embodiments a landmark may include for example a visible indication a graffiti or a mural painted on a wall towers mountains lakes a blinking sign an animated sign a moving lights sign or the like. In some embodiments a landmark may include for example an item or object that is not part of a route an off route or off network item or object an item or object which may not be directly accessed or directly reached by a vehicle an item or object which may not be driven on or driven through an item or an object that is external to a route or to a route segment or the like. In some embodiments a landmark may include for example an item or object away from a route or from a route segment an item or object distant from a route or a route segment an item or object which may not be at a junction or a crossroad route segments or the like.

In some embodiments a landmark may be used for routing route guidance navigation reassurance recognition and or other purposes optionally in connection with reaching to or recognizing a POI which a particular user or a group of users may find useful or interesting. In some embodiments a landmark may be whereas a POI may not necessarily be useful for routing route guidance navigation reassurance recognition and or other purposes. For example a substantially hidden or not visible barber shop located at the back area of a second floor in a strip mall may be a POI for one or more users but may not be used efficiently as a landmark for routing route guidance navigation reassurance recognition and or other purposes. In some embodiments a landmark may be used for routing route guidance navigation reassurance recognition and or other purposes as well as POIs business listings land use features or the like.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the term map as used herein may include for example a street based map a road based map a street map a road map a geographical map a vector map a raster map a topographic map a city map a digital chart a bird s eye view map a satellite map a pictorial map a 2D map a 3D map a traffic map or the like. In some embodiments a map need not necessarily be a graphical representation but may be or may include data or information e.g. content of a database from which a graphical map may be generated or from which a rendering may be generated or from which route guidance information may be generated.

In some embodiments a map may include features classifications or feature categories and attributes. Features may include for example line features area features and or point features. Attributes may include descriptions of features. For example a road may be a feature which may be classified into types e.g. freeways arterials streets unpaved roads etc. . A road of a particular type may be attributed as a one way road restricted to non residents between 08 00 and 17 00 of a primary name Sixth Avenue of an alternate name Avenue of the Americas with an address ranging from one number to another number on one side and another range on the other side of speed limit 50 miles per hour or the like.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the term road based as used herein may relate to for example a system or method that utilizes roads e.g. streets avenues boulevards highways freeways road networks street networks or the like and their attributes e.g. street names address range turn restrictions lane information speed limit or the like in order to generate a map to determine a route to generate route guidance information or to perform other navigation related operations.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the term navigation as used herein may include for example one or more navigation related or navigation associated operations for example generating a map utilizing a map route planning determining a route from an origin to a destination generating route guidance information positioning generating or handling GPS information or the like.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the term mapping as used herein may include for example generating or rendering a map generating or rendering a portion of a map generating or rendering a layer which may be overlaid onto a map combining or overlaying one or more layers onto a map combining or overlaying multiple map layers or the like.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the term routing as used herein may include for example determining a route from an origin to a destination calculating a route from an origin to a destination selecting a route from an origin to a destination suggesting one or more alternative routes from an origin to a destination determining one or more route segments or route portions that allow a user to go from an origin to a destination or the like.

Although portions of the discussion herein may refer for demonstrative purposes to an itinerary a route a route plan a map or route guidance information that refer to one origin and one destination embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard and may be used in conjunction with multiple origins and or multiple destinations.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the term personal contact as used herein may include for example a personal contact associated with a user or with multiple users a business contact associated with a user or with multiple users or other type of contact or one or more attributes thereof for example names addresses longitude and latitude telephone numbers facsimile numbers electronic mail Email addresses web site addresses URLs or the like.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the terms personal contact list and or personal contact database as used herein may include for example one or more personal contacts which may be stored in a mobile or portable computing device a cellular phone a mobile phone a PDA device a hybrid PDA mobile phone device a laptop an Email application e.g. Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Outlook Express or the like a database application e.g. Microsoft Excel Microsoft Access or the like a customer relationship management CRM system e.g. SAP Siebel SalesForce a remotely stored list of contacts a locally stored list of contacts or other lists or databases of personal contacts.

In some embodiments a landmark may be or may include a personal contact. In some embodiments a personal contact may be or may include a landmark.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the term user as used herein may include for example an end user an intermediary user an operator a telephone operator an administrator a home user a business user an enterprise a customer a consumer a driver a hiker a traveler a rider or the like.

Some embodiments of the invention may include may be operably associated with or may otherwise utilize GPS data GPS receivers GPS transceivers GPS chips GPS enabled units real time GPS data or other GPS related information or components.

Although portions of the discussion herein may relate for demonstrative purposes to GPS or GPS related devices embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard and may be used in conjunction with other e.g. non GPS or non GPS based devices location pointing devices compasses or compass based devices gyroscopes or gyroscope based devices or the like.

Although embodiments of the invention may relate for demonstrative purposes to driving directions and or to route guidance information that may include driving directions embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard e.g. are not limited to driving or to traveling using a vehicle and may include various other types of directions or information for example walking directions running directions jogging directions bicycling directions hiking directions motor biking directions horse trail directions horse riding directions flying directions sailing directions boating directions swimming directions traveling directions directions suitable or tailored for a particular group of travelers e.g. drivers hikers joggers handicapped persons children or the like or other types of directions.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the term node as used herein may include for example a junction a road junction a crossroad an end of a street an end of a road an end of a route segment a point or location at which a traveler is required to make a turn or to modify its traveling direction a point or location at which it is possible for a traveler to make a turn or to modify its traveling direction a decision point in a routing network or the like.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the term link as used herein may include for example a map segment or map portion or route segment or route portion that connects between nodes. For example two nodes may be decision points or maneuver points and a link may be a route segment that connects the two nodes.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the term recognition as used herein may include for example determining or understanding by a user that a particular landmark is indeed the one the user is looking for or determining or understanding by a user that a particular maneuver or decision is correct. For example in some embodiments a user may be looking for a destination point which is a particular restaurant the user may not recognize that particular restaurant because it does not have a prominently visible sign or banner showing the restaurant name and the user may recognize that particular restaurant because route guidance information indicates to the user that the restaurant is pyramid shaped and the user recognizes the structural shape. This recognition of a landmark may further be referred to as identification of the landmark. In some embodiments recognition or identification may be used for example in conjunction with destination points decision points waypoints routes route segments or the like. For example route guidance information may advise the user to make a right turn at the corner of Broadway and 37th street and that the corner can be recognized or identified by a graffiti sign and the user may indeed recognize or identify the corner at which a turn is required based on the identifying graffiti sign. In some embodiments a recognition information item may include an information item that allows the user to make an appropriate maneuver or decision or determination.

Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard the term reassurance as used herein may include for example noticing or understanding by a user that an already performed or currently performed decision maneuver or determination is correct. For example in some embodiments route guidance information may advise the user to drive along road I 95 for a distance of ten miles and a reassurance information item may advise the user that while he drives on that portion of road I 95 he can expect to see a lake on his left side. Upon actually seeing the lake on his left side and based on the reassurance information item the user may be reassured that he is driving along the correct road. In contrast if the user drives for approximately ten miles on a road which he believes to be road I 95 but does not see a lake on his left side then the driver may understand based on the reassurance information item that his belief is incorrect and that he is not traveling on road I 95. In some embodiments reassurance may be achieved immediately after performing a maneuver or after a time period passed or a distance was traveled from the maneuver.

In some embodiments the components of system may be enclosed in for example a common housing packaging or the like and may be interconnected or operably associated using one or more wired or wireless links. In other embodiments for example components of system may be distributed among multiple or separate devices may be implemented using a client server configuration or system may communicate using remote access methods or the like.

Processor may include for example a central processing unit CPU a digital signal processor DSP a microprocessor a host processor a controller a plurality of processors or controllers a chip a microchip one or more circuits circuitry a logic unit an integrated circuit IC an application specific IC ASIC or any other suitable multi purpose or specific processor or controller. Processor may for example execute instructions execute one or more software applications and process signals and or data transmitted and or received by system .

Input unit may include for example a keyboard a keypad a mouse a touch pad a stylus a scanner a microphone or other suitable pointing device or input device. Output unit may include for example a cathode ray tube CRT monitor or display unit a liquid crystal display LCD monitor or display unit a plasma screen a screen a touch screen a monitor a projector a speaker or other suitable display unit or output device.

Memory unit may include for example a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a dynamic RAM DRAM a synchronous DRAM SD RAM a flash memory a volatile memory a non volatile memory a cache memory a buffer a short term memory unit a long term memory unit or other suitable memory units or storage units. Storage unit may include for example a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a compact disk CD drive a CD ROM drive a digital versatile disk DVD drive or other suitable removable or non removable storage units. Memory unit and or storage unit may for example store data processed by system .

Communication unit may include for example a wired or wireless network interface card NIC a wired or wireless modem a wired or wireless receiver and or transmitter a wired or wireless transmitter receiver and or transceiver a radio frequency RF communication unit or transceiver a GPS unit a GPS chip a GPS receiver a GPS transceiver or other units able to transmit and or receive signals blocks frames transmission streams packets messages and or data. Communication unit may optionally include or may optionally be associated with for example one or more antennas e.g. a dipole antenna a monopole antenna an omni directional antenna an end fed antenna a circularly polarized antenna a micro strip antenna a diversity antenna or the like.

System may further include for example a map generator and a route guidance generator . The map generator may include a module or a unit able to generate and or render a map or a portion thereof for example corresponding to geographical area or corresponding to a route between an origin and a destination with possible in between waypoints. The route guidance generator may include a module or a unit able to generate route guidance information associated with moving from an origin to a destination. System may optionally include a routing generator for example a module or a unit able to determine or calculate a route from an origin to a destination. In some embodiments routing generator may be implemented for example in combination with map generator in combination with route guidance generator or as a stand alone or separate routing unit.

The map generator and the route guidance generator may be operably associated with one or more databases for example a map database a landmark database and a personal contact database . Optionally map generator and or route guidance generator may utilize a geocoder and or a reverse geocoder for example including modules or units able to convert street based address data to latitude longitude data or vice versa. In some embodiments optionally map generator and or route guidance generator may be operable associated with or may utilize a GPS unit for example a GPS receiver a GPS transceiver a GPS positioning unit a GPS information generator unit or the like.

The map database may include for example geographical information spatial information geo spatial information data from which a map may be generated and or rendered by map generator and or data from which route guidance information may be generated by route guidance generator .

The landmark database may include for example data indicating a geographical location and or spatial location and or geo spatial location of a landmark as well as a description e.g. a textual description a graphical description or the like associated with the landmark. The landmark database may optionally include one or more linked databases or related databases or may be operably linked or related to other databases.

For example in some embodiments a first record in the landmark database may include a category such as Water Fountain and a description attribute or a name attribute such as The Happy Lion and may be associated with a location attribute of North eastern corner of 53rd Street and 6th Avenue in New York N.Y. United States or a representation thereof A second record in the landmark database may include a category such as Building and a description attribute or a name attribute such as Flatiron Building and may be associated with a location of 175 Fifth Avenue New York N.Y. United States or with a latitude value of 40.740996 and a longitude value of 73.989805. The landmark database may include various other and or additional categories and attributes for example a category a sub category a name attribute a description attribute a location attribute a functional attribute associated with a function of the landmark one or more visualization attributes associated with visual characteristics of the landmark or the like. Visualization attributes and or other attributes may include for example textual information graphical information audio information video information photographs pictorial information illustrations animation audio video information icons iconized information 2D information 3D information or the like.

In some embodiments the landmark database may include information of pre defined landmarks. In some embodiments mapping system may be configured such that the information stored in the landmark database may not be modified updated deleted and or augmented by remote users that utilize the mapping system and or such that the information stored in the landmark database may be selectively modified updated deleted and or augmented by a system administrator controlling the mapping system . In other embodiments some portions of the information stored in the landmark database may not be modified by users of the mapping system for example information related to certain historic landmarks famous buildings monuments or the like whereas other portions of the information stored in the landmark database may be modified by users of the mapping system for example information related to coffee shops or bank branches. In yet other embodiments substantially all the information stored in the landmark database may be modified by users of the mapping system for example to allow dynamic updating and or correction of the information stored in the landmark database . In some embodiments optionally an updater unit or module may be used to perform manual updating or modification of the landmark database automatic updating or modification of the landmark database and or user based or user feedback based updating or modification of the landmark database .

The personal contacts database may include for example a list or database of personal contacts associated with a user or with multiple users. The personal contacts database may include for example names addresses longitude and latitude telephone numbers facsimile numbers electronic mail Email addresses web site addresses URLs or the like. In some embodiments for example the personal contacts database may include a list stored in a mobile computing device a cellular phone a mobile phone a PDA device a hybrid PDA mobile phone device a laptop an Email application e.g. Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Outlook Express or the like a database application e.g. Microsoft Excel Microsoft Access or the like a customer relationship management CRM system e.g. SAP Siebel SalesForce or other lists of personal contacts. In some embodiments optionally the personal contacts database may be stored in a remote e.g. mobile or portable device or unit. In some embodiments optionally the personal contacts database may include information converted imported and or exported from a first format to a second format. In some embodiments optionally information stored in the personal contacts database may be converted or re formatted to accommodate a pre defined information exchange format utilized by mapping system . Optionally information conversion or re formatting may be performed for example prior to or subsequent to storing the information in the personal contacts database . In some embodiments optionally personal contacts information may be imported converted and or re formatted from a first format to a second format utilizing an importer converter module which may be included in mapping system or may be operably associated with mapping system or with personal contacts database .

In some embodiments map generator may generate and or render a map using the information stored in the map database optionally utilizing geocoder reverse geocoder and or a or GPS unit . The generated map may optionally include multiple layers. For example a first layer of the generated map may optionally include road based geographical information e.g. showing streets and avenues showing street names or the like. A second layer of the generated map may optionally include photograph based geographical information e.g. satellite photographs or portions thereof. A third layer of the generated map may optionally include landmarks e.g. bank branches coffee shops monuments water fountains or the like. A fourth layer of the generated map may optionally include personal contact information converted into geo spatial information e.g. indications corresponding to addresses included in the personal contacts database. The generated map may include other layers or other combinations of layers.

In some embodiments the generated map may include a road based map showing streets and avenues whereas additional map layers e.g. personal contacts landmarks or the like may be overlaid on top of the map. For example one or more information layers may be substantially separate from the generated map and may be overlaid or superimposed on the generated map. In other embodiments the generated map may integrally include both the road based map and one or more generated layers e.g. personal contacts landmarks or the like .

In some embodiments layers may be generated and or presented in accordance with a pre defined order or a user selectable order. In some embodiments layers may be removed or added from the map in response to a user request. In some embodiments a user interface UI or a graphical UI GUI may be utilized to allow a user to add or remove layers or sets of layers to toggle a layer on and off to switch among pre defined sets of layers or to otherwise control layers of the generated map. In some embodiments layers may include pointers numerals or other indicators to indicate landmarks or personal contacts on the map for example using a permanent indication a flashing or blinking indication an animated indication a balloon or bubble indication a pushpin indication a highlighted or colorful indication an indication visible upon hovering of a pointing device e.g. a mouse over a certain point of the map or the like. In some embodiments one or more audio indications voice indications and or sound indications may be used for example to indicate or to convey landmark information or landmark attributes.

In some embodiments the mapping system may optionally generate for example upon a user s request a map showing the geo spatial location of some or substantially all of the addresses and or substantially all the entries that the user stored in the personal contacts database . Optionally the generated map may include indications e.g. textual indications graphical indications pointers or the like showing information e.g. name and title and logo about the personal contact in proximity to its location on the generated map. For example the indication John Smith Attorney may appear in a balloon or bubble indicator pointing towards the point of the generated map associated with the geographical address of John Smith according to the personal contacts database .

In some embodiments the user may request a map including geographical indications of substantially all of the personal contacts associated with that user and in response the mapping system may generate the requested map. In other embodiments the user may request a map including indications of a selected subset of the personal contacts associated with that user and in response the mapping system may generate the requested map. For example the user may request a map including indications of personal contacts which may be pre selected or marked by the user the user may request a map including indications of personal contacts having a common attribute e.g. family members professional associates clients suppliers entertainment establishments entitles or categories containing a selected word e.g. attorney or restaurant or Smith or the like the user may request a map including indications of personal contacts located in a certain city located within a selected range or radius from a certain landmark or address or city the user may request a map including indications of personal contacts located in a destination city near a destination city near a destination point near a latitude longitude point or the like. In response the mapping system may generate the requested map.

In some embodiments the route guidance generator may generate route guidance information which may include road based route guidance information landmark based route guidance information and or personal contacts route guidance information. For example a user may request route guidance information for moving from an origin point to a destination point. In response the route guidance generator may generate a route having multiple route segments associated with multiple portions of route guidance information. A portion of the route guidance information may be for example Go south on Broadway and turn right on 23rd Street corresponding to road based route guidance. A portion of the route guidance information may be for example Go south on Broadway and turn right at the Flatiron building corresponding to landmark based route guidance. A portion of the route guidance information may be for example Go south on Broadway and turn right on 23rd Street namely turn right at the Flatiron building corresponding to both road based route guidance and landmark based route guidance. A portion of the route guidance information may be for example Go south on Broadway and turn right at the Citibank branch located at the corner of 32nd Street corresponding to road based route guidance combined with landmark based information. A portion of the route guidance information may be for example Go south on Broadway and turn right at the first street after you pass the Cinemax theater on your right side corresponding to road based route guidance combined with landmark based information. A portion of the route guidance information may be for example From the origin drive towards your mother s house and turn right after crossing your mother s house on the right side corresponding to landmark based information combined with personal contacts based information. A portion of the route guidance information may relate to other off route information or off route landmarks possibly including a relation to a landmark beyond the destination for example Go south on Fifth Avenue towards the Empire State Building that you can see straight ahead of you but stop at the Chase bank at the corner of 39th Street and do not reach the Empire State Building ahead. Other suitable hybrid combinations of road based route guidance information landmark based route guidance information and or personal contacts based route guidance information may be used by route guidance generator to generate the requested route guidance.

In some embodiments optionally one or more levels of detail e.g. generality or specificity may be used in route guidance information generation. For example a first portion of the generated route guidance information may be general such as Go towards your sister s house whereas a second portion of the generated route guidance information may be specific such as Turn right at the Starbucks store located at the corner of 36th Street and Seventh Avenue . In some embodiments generated route guidance information may include multiple route guidance information portions having a common level of detail. In other embodiments generated route guidance information may include multiple route guidance information having multiple levels of detail.

In some embodiments optionally the route guidance generator may generate route guidance information including one or more information portions which may be used for route validation route segment validation location or destination validation route recognition route segment recognition location or destination recognition user reassurance or the like. For example a route guidance information portion generated by the route guidance generator may include a direction such as Go south on Fifth Avenue for two miles Central Park being on your right side and make a right turn at the water fountain immediately at the end of Central Park . Such information portion may help the user understand or identify the route guidance information recognize the correct route segment orient the user validate that the user drives along the correct route segment reassure the user that the user drives along the correct route or the like. A reassurance information generated by the route guidance generator item may be for example Go north on Sixth Avenue make a left on 34th Street and as you drive west on 34th Street you can see Macy s department store on your right side corresponding to a landmark along the route segment which may be used for routing recognition validation orientation or reassurance. The validating information portion may be used for example prior to advising the user of a change in the route together with advising the user of a change in the route or after advising the user of a change in the route. In some embodiment reassurance information may be for example textual non textual verbal non verbal pictorial photograph based illustrational audible or the like.

In some embodiments optionally the route guidance generator may selectively determine which landmarks to include in the route guidance information for example from a group of multiple landmarks which may be used based on one or more criteria or algorithms. In one embodiment for example the route guidance generator may select to utilize a first landmark for route guidance instead of a second landmark based on the physical visibility or physical properties of the landmarks. For example a landmark having high visibility may be selected a landmark having a relatively better visibility from a certain angle or route segment a landmark having better night time visibility or the like. In another embodiment the route guidance generator may select to utilize a first landmark for route guidance instead of a second landmark based on semantic recognition or a contextual property of the landmarks. For example a six feet sign showing an easily recognizable brand or logo or business name e.g. Citibank or Hilton may be selected for landmark based route guidance instead of an eight feet business sign showing an obscure writing which is less known or less recognizable e.g. Jacob s Hardware Store or Aunt Sarah s Coffee Shop . In still another embodiment the route guidance generator may select to utilize a first landmark for route guidance by itself and or instead of a second landmark based on estimated efficiency or relative efficiency of utilizing that landmark for route guidance or routing. For example in some embodiments a highly visible landmark may not be used for routing or route guidance if the determined routing that utilizes that landmark entails a significant detour or an increase in travel time or an increase in travel distance. In contrast in some embodiments a highly visible landmark may be used for routing or route guidance even if the determined routing that utilizes that landmark entails a relatively small detour or a relatively small increase for example up to a pre defined percentage value in travel time or travel distance. Other efficiency or efficiency related algorithms or criteria may be used in order to determine whether or not to utilize a particular landmark or personal contact for routing or route guidance and or in order to determine whether to selectively utilize a first landmark and not a second landmark or a first personal contact and not a second personal contact for routing or route guidance.

In some embodiments mapping system may include or present an advertisement a commercial a coupon a printable coupon or barcode a discount coupon or other items which may be associated with a landmark used for routing or route guidance. For example in some embodiments mapping system may utilize John s Coffee Shop as a landmark for route guidance may generate route guidance information such as make a left turn at John s Coffee Shop and may further provide the user with a coupon which may be used or redeemed at John s Coffee Shop. In some embodiments optionally this may be performed if John s Coffee Shop agreed in advance to provide the coupon to the mapping system if John s Coffee Shop paid an advertising fee to the operator of mapping system or if other criteria or conditions are met. In some embodiments for example payment of an inclusion fee by a landmark owner may be a condition for utilizing that landmark for routing and or route guidance provided by the mapping system .

In yet another embodiment the route guidance generator may select to utilize a first landmark for route guidance instead of a second landmark based on economical and or commercial criteria. For example a first landmark may be selected for route guidance if the owner of the first landmark pays a fee e.g. inclusion fee to the operator of the mapping system a cooperating landmark whereas a second landmark may not be used for route guidance if the owner of the second landmark does not pay the fee a non cooperating landmark . In still another embodiment the route guidance generator may select to utilize a first landmark for route guidance instead of a second landmark based on other criteria for example contextual criteria. For example if a user requests a route from his home to a podiatrist clinic the mapping system may select to utilize an orthopedic shoes store as a landmark in the map generated by map generator and or in the route guidance information generated by the route guidance generator instead of utilizing a coffee shop as a landmark.

In some embodiments mapping system or one or more components thereof may be implemented as part of a vehicular or portable navigation system a vehicular or portable global positioning system GPS device a vehicular or portable route determination or route guidance device or the like. In other embodiments mapping system or one or more of components thereof may be implemented as a mapping server able to serve mapping queries of one or more clients e.g. vehicular clients portable clients non portable clients or the like a routing determination server able to serve route determination queries of one or more clients a route guidance server able to serve route guidance queries of one or more clients an Internet application or site a World Wide Web application or web site of web page a stand alone software application an embedded or integrated software application an online or offline software or application utilized for searching names or phone numbers e.g. directory applications phone directories directory assistance services Yellow Pages directories or applications White Pages directories or applications or the like or other suitable applications services devices or applications.

In some embodiments a map generated by map generator may selectively include only one item or only some items from a group of landmarks having a common property or attribute or category or from a group of landmarks of a common type or from a group of the same landmarks. The selection may be performed for example based on the usefulness of the selected landmark in route guidance to a destination. For example in one embodiment a village may have five gas stations but not all of the five gas stations may be included or displayed in the map generated by map generator instead only a particular gas station useful for route guidance to a requested destination may be included or displayed in the generated map for example as to not obscure or over crowd the generated map with information not relevant to route guidance. In some embodiments for example only one or some of a set of landmarks may be used or displayed for route guidance or navigation purposes instead of using including and or displaying substantially all of or a large number of the landmarks.

In some embodiments a map generated by map generator may include landmarks and or addresses and or latitude longitude of personal contacts and may not include street names. Similarly in some embodiments route guidance information generated by route guidance generator may include route guidance information based on landmarks and or addresses and or latitude longitude of personal contacts and may not include route guidance information based on street names.

In some embodiments for example mapping system may optionally allow navigation based on non linear elements routing based on non linear elements and or route guidance based on non linear elements. For example a routing determined by route generator need not be along linear route segments need not be along streets and avenues and may utilize non linear elements for routing or route guidance. In some embodiments for example mapping system may allow landmark based routing or route guidance or personal contacts based routing or route guidance which may include crossing within a field an open space a shopping mall a garden a park a national park or the like. For example in some embodiments route guidance information generated by route guidance generator and routes generated by routing generator may not be limited to road based routing for example turn right at 24th Street but rather may include non linear elements in routing off network routing or free style routing for example go south on Fifth Avenue make a right turn into Central Park at the Water Fountain then make a left turn before reaching the Lake . In some embodiments mapping system may allow routing and or route guidance which may utilize non linear elements.

Some embodiments may utilize landmark based routing and or landmark based route guidance. For example landmark based routing may include determination or calculation of a route based on one or more available or useful landmarks. For example landmark based routing may selectively determine to generate a first route which passes near a particular landmark useful for orientation or easily recognizable instead of generating a second route which may not pass by that landmark. Additionally or alternatively landmark based route guidance may be used. For example even if a route is determined or calculated without taking one or more landmarks into account landmarks may still be used in the route guidance process for example by selectively and actively generating landmark based route guidance information portions.

In some embodiments mapping system may utilize routing and or route guidance based on addresses of personal contacts in accordance with pre defined criteria. In some embodiments for example addresses of personal contacts may be used for routing and or route guidance based on the efficiency or relative efficiency of including the personal contact address in the determined route or based on the efficiency or relative efficiency of routing or navigating or route guiding using a particular personal contact or landmark. In some embodiments for example personal contact addresses may be used for routing and or route guidance if the destination is relatively far from the origin and or if a particular personal contact address is in proximity or relative proximity to the destination. For example in one embodiment a user may request route guidance information to move from 4th Street in New York City to 137th Street in New York City and the personal contacts of that user may include a reference to Jane Brown whose office address is on 134th street in New York City in response the route guidance generator may generate route guidance information such as Go north on Sixth Avenue from 4th Street to Jane Brown s office on 134th Street or at a lower level of details or a at a decreased level of details Get to Jane Brown s office then take the first right going north followed by additional route guidance information to allow the user to reach his original destination.

In some embodiments the information in the landmarks database may be selectively and or dynamically updated upgraded augmented corrected enhanced or otherwise modified by one or more users of the mapping system including local users and or remote users. For example a first version e.g. a native version an original version an official version or the like of the information stored in the landmarks database may include a first set of landmarks whereas subsequent e.g. second third or the like versions of the information stored in the landmarks database may include subsequent updated sets of landmarks. In some embodiments landmark information may be tuned fine tuned corrected augmented or otherwise modified based on users feedback input or ratings and or map data updates and or automatic feedback and or input.

In some embodiments for example a user may indicate to mapping system for example using the input unit that a landmark used by mapping system is not appropriate not relevant does not exist ceased to exist moved to a different location is not visible has low visibility is obscured or hidden is not useful is confusing is mapped incorrectly or the like. In response the landmarks database may be updated for example by removing a landmark that ceased to exist by updating the location of a landmark that moved by correcting a location of a landmark having an incorrect landmark or the like.

In some embodiments for example a user may indicate to mapping system that an additional landmark may be added to the landmark database and or may be used by mapping system . For example a user may indicate that a new coffee shop is open and is available to be used for routing or route guidance that a prominent graffiti painted on a wall can be used for routing or route guidance or the like. In response the newly entered landmark may be added to the landmark database . A user may indicate the location of a new landmark for example utilizing a point and click interface by providing a street address by providing an offset from another landmark or from a street address by providing latitude longitude information or the like. The user may enter a description of the landmark for example a textual description a graphical description a photograph or other information associated with the landmark or identifying the landmark.

In some embodiments a landmark entered by a user may be added to the landmark database and may be used substantially immediately for routing and or route guidance. In other embodiments a newly entered landmark may be added to the landmark database but may not be used for routing and or route guidance until a pre defined condition or criterion is met. For example in one embodiment a landmark entered by one user may not be used for routing and or route guidance whereas a landmark entered by more than one user may be used for routing and or route guidance. In another embodiment for example a landmark may be used only after its details are entered and or validated by a pre defined number of users. In some embodiments a landmark entered by a user may be associated with a rating value and may be used for routing and or route guidance if the rating value is larger than a pre defined threshold. For example a rating value may be increased if more than one user provide the landmark information to mapping system if one or more users validate or confirm the correctness of the landmark and or its usefulness for route guidance if an independent or external source e.g. a physical check a GPS reading an online check of correctness or validity an online lookup or search through a database or a lookup table or the like confirms the correctness of the landmark and or its usefulness for route guidance if there is a significant shortage or absence of landmarks in the vicinity of the newly entered landmark or the like.

In some embodiments mapping system may allow a user to provide feedback or input with regard to quality correctness and or usefulness of landmarks. For example a user may indicate that a landmark is correct incorrect useful for route guidance not useful for route guidance misleading visible not visible not visible at night obsolete or the like. The feedback or input may be collected from multiple users and may be stored in the landmark database . For example a landmark stored in the landmark database may be associated with a rating value optionally stored in the landmark database .

In some embodiments the rating value of landmarks may be taken into consideration by mapping system in the process of map generation and or route guidance generation. In one embodiment for example mapping system may ignore landmarks having a rating value smaller than a pre defined threshold. For example map generator may not include such landmarks in the generated maps and route guidance generator may not relate to such landmarks in the generated route guidance information. In another embodiment for example mapping system may select to use a first landmark and not a second landmark if the rating value associated with the first landmark is relatively higher or significantly higher than the rating value associated with the second landmark. Other suitable criteria may be used and other suitable feedback values rating values correctness indicators usefulness indicators or quality indicators may be associated with landmarks.

Some embodiments may allow users to directly or indirectly update correct add augment delete and or modify information stored in the landmark database . The information stored in the landmark database may thus maintain or improve its accuracy and or quality. For example users feedback and input may allow removal of landmarks that are obsolete and or are not useful for navigation or route guidance may allow addition of landmarks that are new and or useful for navigation or route guidance may allow validation of existing landmarks may decrease the degradation rate or the decay rate of the information stored in landmark database or the like.

In some embodiments landmark database may distinguish between landmarks included in an initial version of the database e.g. original landmarks or official landmarks and landmarks added to the database based on users feedback and input e.g. unofficial landmarks social landmarks or users landmarks . In one embodiment a user of mapping system may request a map and or route guidance information utilizing only official landmarks and disregarding unofficial landmarks and in response the mapping system may generate such map and or route guidance information. In another embodiment a user of mapping system may request a map and or route guidance information utilizing only unofficial landmarks and disregarding official landmarks and in response the mapping system may generate such map and or route guidance information. This may be performed for example if a user requests a map of a national park which may not have streets and avenues or other official identifiers but rather may have one or more unofficial landmarks entered by users and corresponding to various objects or features of the national park. In yet another embodiment a user of mapping system may request a map and or route guidance information utilizing both official landmarks and unofficial landmarks and in response the mapping system may generate such map and or route guidance information. In still another embodiment a user of mapping system may request a map and or route guidance information utilizing official landmarks and unofficial landmarks having a rating value greater than a user selectable threshold value and in response the mapping system may generate such map and or route guidance information.

In some embodiments the rating value of a landmark or other quality indicator associated with the landmark may be indicated on the map generated by mapping system . In some embodiments a color scheme a scoring scheme or other graphical coding scheme may be used to indicate quality or relative quality of landmarks to indicate that a landmark is official e.g. originating from the operator of mapping system or unofficial e.g. added to the landmark database based on users input or the like.

In some embodiments optionally unofficial landmarks entered by users may be used for fine tuning current map information and or for mapping unmapped areas and or for mapping unmapped locations and or for mapping unmapped points. For example a national park may be unmapped a large shopping mall may be unmapped an open field may be unmapped a new housing development may be unmapped roads may be unmapped and other areas or locations may be substantially unmapped. Utilizing landmarks entered by users may allow the mapping system to generate maps of such previously unmapped locations and areas for example to allow users to explore the area to allow users to traverse the area efficiently to allow users to park a vehicle at a particular parking place in proximity to their destination to allow users to enter or exit the area or its vicinity using a particular entry or exit to shorten their traveling period or the like.

Some embodiments may be utilized to map substantially unmapped areas which still exist throughout the world today. Although most countries of the world may be topographically mapped it is estimated that major portions of various countries are non mapped or non mapped in a context of commercially digitized road network maps. Furthermore even if a country is considered substantially mapped it is not completely namely 100 percent road network mapped for example since roads may disappear or get closed new roads may appear attributes change new structures and neighborhoods erect or the like. In addition user generated content linked to maps is related to specific locations and or landmarks and their offerings for example business social cultural or recreational and may have spatial relevance for geocoding but not for map usability or routing or route guidance.

In some embodiments for example a major road e.g. highway I 95 may be included in a database of a mapping system whereas street level data may not be included in the database. According to some embodiments information of official and or unofficial landmarks may be stored in a landmark database e.g. including a description of the landmark as well as its location using address and or longitude latitude . For example the major road may be stretched similar to a line from north to south and four landmarks may be located on the east side of the major road reviewing from north to south a first landmark the Happy Winery may be located across the street from a second landmark the Lion Fountain these two landmarks may be located 120 meters north of a third landmark the Regency Theater which in turn may be located 75 meters north of a fourth landmark City Hall . The landmarks or a subset thereof may be used to generate draw render or otherwise refer to an unofficial road connecting the landmarks or a subset thereof and optionally a name may be associated with that road e.g. the Orange Tour Road . The unofficial road as well as the landmarks or a subset thereof may optionally be super imposed on map s or map layer s .

Some embodiments may optionally include or may be used in conjunction with a geo spatial layer that provides for example a uniformed method for recording and or publishing local identifiers that accentuate a business location guidance to locations via visual and or intuitive features and attributes advertising based on routing association and or destination related information and or using a database having positional and or directional landmark references.

In some embodiments route guidance information may be landmark based and or personal contacts based and may utilize one or more route guidance attributes for example positional attributes for example across from directive attributes for example north or quality attributes or validity attributes or correctness attributes for example indication that a particular landmark is validated or is associated with a rating value or quality indicator descriptive attributes for example color height and or shape of a landmark dimensional attributes for example top of an object or along the way type attributes logical attributes for example drive to or walk to attributes or other attributes.

Some embodiments may allow for example to create or indicate geo reference locations with nearby landmarks to define new landmarks to customize maps with logos of landmarks and or references of landmarks to present landmarks embedded within maps or as layers which may be overlaid on top of maps or removed from map displays to determine landmark based routing for example to determine a route from an origin to a destination based on availability of landmarks for routing purposes based on visibility or quality of landmarks for routing purposes or the like to generate factual routing or route guidance functional routing or route guidance or predictive routing or route guidance to allow location adjustment tools and tracking to allow business promotion to track location history to optionally perform user profiling to generate a references database with location derivatives or the like.

In some embodiments mapping system may selectively determine and present to the user a first instead of a second route based on a calculation that takes into account the efficiency or quality of landmark based routing for example by itself and or in comparison to road based routing. Optionally the determined route may not necessarily be the shortest route in length but may be a route that a user can more easily follow in comparison with the shortest length route. For example in some embodiments mapping system may selectively determine to use a first route segment or a first set of route segments instead of a second segment or a second set of route segments if the first route segment or set are associated with landmarks useful for route guidance and the second route segment or set are not associated with landmarks useful for route guidance or if the landmarks associated with the first route segment or set have a higher quality or higher utility for route guidance purposes than the landmarks associated with the second route segment or set.

Some embodiments may allow efficient user friendly quick and or improved routing route guidance navigation route recognition route segment recognition or destination recognition. For example some embodiments and or landmark based route guidance may be used if street names are not visible if street names are not available if the destination is not visible if the destination is better accessed by walking rather than by driving if multiple routes or route segments may be used to reach a destination if multiple routes or multiple route segments are associated with street and or landmarks having various types of visibility or the like.

Some embodiments for example may bridge between information presented in a map and a user s spatial visualization abilities may optimize or reduce driving time may eliminate or reduce unnecessary circling around may reduce driving or routing complexity or risks may promote business establishments in context of user relevance and or user immediacy and or may create further levels or layers of local content that may enrich the user experience.

Some embodiments may provide benefits and or advantages to one or more types of users. For example in some embodiments a business establishment may promote its physical location may strengthen its brand name may increase its brand recognition and or may increase its opportunity to transact business with a potential customer. In some embodiments for example a service provider may provide accurate succinct and or actionable location data may increase its user base and or may reduce support overhead. In some embodiments for example a mobile solutions provider may provide products and services to consumers attention when the consumers are mobile and or may increase advertising revenue. In some embodiments for example an application builder or developer may create unique application products may target particular market segments and or may increase its market share. In some embodiments for example a map database vendor may trace real life features and attributes and or may reduce its map updating costs. In some embodiments for example an end user utilizing the mapping system may be provided with improved user experience and satisfaction effective matching of queries regarding business locations increased safety achieved by routing utilizing prominent landmarks along the route destination confirmation or route segment confirmation achieved using visible location identifiers improved planning and or decision making time saving and or ability to arrive on time to the destination.

In some embodiments maps generated by mapping system may include or may allow for example a map view a satellite view a bird s eye view a hybrid view or other suitable views. In some embodiments routing information or route guidance information generated by mapping system may include for example driving directions walking directions bicycling directions hiking directions motor biking directions horse trail directions horse riding directions sailing directions flying directions reverse routing e.g. allowing a user to easily request a reverse route leading from the destination to the origin reverse route guidance e.g. allowing a user to easily request route guidance information for a reverse route leading from the destination to the origin shortest time routing shortest distance routing routing to avoid tolls routing to minimize tolls routing to avoid highways routing to minimize highways or the like. In some embodiments maps generated by mapping system may allow the user to perform various other actions for example to create or send a permalink to the generated map or information to send by Email the generated map or information to send to a mobile phone number the generated map or information for example using SMS message or MMS message to watch live traffic associated with a map or a route or a landmark for example using a web camera or other stream video component to produce a printable or printer friendly or printer oriented version of the generated map or information for example in black and white in grayscale fitting printer page dimensions or the like to create a bookmark or favorite or shortcut or hyperlink pointing to or linking to the generated map or information to allow a user to purchase prints of generated map or information or the like.

In some embodiments mapping system may generate a map and or route guidance information which may be utilized for driving reassurance navigation reassurance navigation validation route recognition or route segment recognition. For example a map generated by mapping system may include a route segment for example a portion of a street between two intersections and an indication that a particular landmark exists along that route segment. For example the generated map may include an indication of a clock tower or other landmark or personal contact which may exist along the street or which may be off the street but may be visible to a driver along that street. Additionally or alternatively the route guidance information may include navigation reassurance information or items for example by optionally referring to landmarks or personal contacts which may be used to reassure a user or driver that he travels along the correct route or route segment. In some embodiments the reassurance landmark or personal contact may be off route or may not be in proximity to the route or route segment for example the reassurance landmark or personal contact may be distant from a route or route segment but may be visible from the route segment or from a portion thereof.

In some embodiments a reassurance information item may assure the user he performed a correct action turn maneuver change of direction progress or the like. For example a reassurance information item may include a phrase such as Turn right into Highway 101 and after you make the right turn and continue driving for one mile you will see a windmill on your left side . The reassurance information item may indicate to the user he correctly performed one or more maneuvers or that the user is on the correct route to the destination.

In some embodiments off network or off route landmarks may be used for navigation reassurance and or for routing or route guidance. For example in some embodiments mapping system may generate a map which may include indications of landmarks and or personal contacts that may not be in proximity to a route or route segment may be off route or off route segment may not be along or aside a route or a route segment may not be reached by vehicle may not be reached by vehicle and or by foot or other off network landmarks or personal contacts. Additionally or alternatively such off network landmarks or personal contacts may be used for routing and or for generating route guidance information. For example generated route guidance information may include an item such as Go south on Broadway until you see the Empire State Building on your left side and then turn left even if the landmark of the Empire State Building in New York is off the Broadway route or route segment. In another example the generated route guidance information may include an item such as Drive south on I 95 highway until you see a water silo located half a mile inside an open field on the left side of the highway and then take the next exit of the I 95 highway . In some embodiments for example an off route landmark or personal contact may be included or otherwise utilized in the generated map or routing or route guidance information for example if the off route landmark or personal contact is visible or otherwise recognizable from a particular route or route segment or a portion thereof.

In some embodiments mapping system may generate a hybrid map or hybrid route guidance information for example including one or more of road based map data roadbased route guidance information landmark based map data landmark based route guidance information personal contact based map data personal contact based route guidance information official and or unofficial landmark based map data official and or unofficial landmark based route guidance information and or other suitable layers of information.

In some embodiments mapping system may generate provide and or display information e.g. distance information time information or the like relative to one or more landmarks and or personal contacts. For example a user may request route planning from an origin to a destination. In response the mapping system may notify the user that the destination is located 74 miles from the origin that the destination is located two miles from the house of the user s brother e.g. as derived from the personal contacts list associated with that user that the destination is located at a distance of approximately three minutes driving from the office of Doctor Brown e.g. as derived from the personal contacts list associated with that user that the destination is located approximately 140 feet from the Empire State Building e.g. derived from landmark information stored in the landmark database that the destination is located at approximately two minutes driving distance from the Big Ben clock tower e.g. derived from landmark information stored in the landmark database or the like. In some embodiments the distance information and or the time related information relative to one or more landmarks and or personal contacts may be generated presented displayed and or modified dynamically and or in substantially real time for example taking into account a current position of the user e.g. utilizing GPS information from GPS unit . In some embodiments such information may provide for example reassurance to the user peace of mind to the user an improved estimation by the user of her estimated time of arrival ETA to her destination an improved understanding by the user of the area of his destination or the like.

Some embodiments of the invention may allow for example to refine or redefine landmarks data to categorize landmark by map usage type e.g. and not necessarily by business types to rank landmarks by usability e.g. and not necessarily by functionality to use landmark changes in order to update a paid advertising database and or to use landmark changes in order to update maps.

Some embodiments of the invention may allow for example landmark based routing and or guidance visual route guidance e.g. utilizing visual landmarks along the route suggestive routing or user intuitive routing efficient routing to hard to reach destinations or to peculiar destinations routing utilizing off route landmarks and or off network landmarks routing which uses substantially only GPS information and landmarks without map display routing utilizing one or more personal contacts partial routing in which route guidance information for a first route segment has reduced details or substantially no route guidance information e.g. go to your sister s house whereas route guidance for a second routing has increased details e.g. go south on Broadway turn right at 37th Street destination reassurance confirmation and or recognition route or route segment reassurance confirmation and or recognition and or allowing the user to map substantially all his personal contacts or a selected subset thereof.

Some embodiments of the invention may allow for example new search capabilities. For example the mapping system may perform a search based on items or landmarks that are visible from a road or a route segment. In some embodiments for example the mapping system may generate a route and or route guidance information that selectively incorporate or utilize a certain type of landmarks e.g. windmills that selectively incorporate or utilize landmarks having a selected attribute e.g. landmarks visible at night time or the like.

Some embodiments of the invention may be used in conjunction with one or more payment schemes for example routing contextual paid advertising navigation ranked advertising promotional advertising e.g. from business establishments that paid an inclusion fee advertising purchased by a new business establishment to increase its exposure to users that seek routing or route guidance information and or other payment schemes or commercial contexts.

Some embodiments may allow a user to produce a map showing locations and optionally other attributes e.g. names of his personal contacts or a selected subset thereof. Some embodiments may not necessarily utilize a fully operational mapping system but rather may utilize a miniature version or a portable version or a stand alone application or a plug in for this purpose. For example some embodiments may provide a software tool able to convert a list of personal contacts e.g. from a Microsoft Outlook software from a Palm or other PDA device or the like into map ready information or map able information optionally utilizing one or more map APIs. The tool may be implemented for example as a stand alone converter software as an online application e.g. the user may upload an exported list of personal contacts and may download a converted list or a map incorporating the personal contacts a plug in or an extension to an existing software or to an existing device or the like.

In some embodiments system and or components thereof may be language independent and or multi lingual. For example system may be able to receive input or data in one or more languages and may be able to generate and or present output or data in one or more languages. In some embodiments a landmark may be associated with a textual description in one or more languages e.g. English Spanish French or the like and system may selectively utilize a textual description in a particular language for example based on a user selection of that language. In some embodiments system may concurrently utilize multiple languages. Other language support schemes may be used.

System may include for example a landmark based LB platform a mapping platform a content platform an application platform and one or more end user devices . System may optionally include other suitable hardware components and or software components.

The mapping platform may include for example a geocoding module or unit e.g. including a geocoder and or a reverse geocoder modules or units able to convert road based address data to latitude longitude data or vice versa a routing module or unit e.g. including a routing generator to determine a route and or a route guidance generator to determine route guidance information able to determine or compute a route optionally having multiple route segments between an origin and a destination and an administration unit or module to control the operation of mapping platform . The mapping platform may include or may be operably associated with mapping content for example geo spatial information from which mapping platform may generate maps.

The content platform may for example generate and or handle content which may be added combined with linked to and or displayed with maps and or route guidance information produced by mapping system . An aggregated content handler may handle one or more types of content for example third party content e.g. a list of bank branches and their respective locations as received from a banking institution original content e.g. provided by a paying business establishment and user generated content e.g. created by users that are members of the general public . In some embodiments optionally aggregated content handler may augment or modify information for example based on input received from other sources or from users. An administration unit or module may control the operation of content platform . In some embodiments content platform or components thereof may administer and or handle content of one or more types e.g. original content aggregated content user generated content content provided or fed in by a third party or the like. In some embodiments content aggregation may not necessarily be performed by content platform but rather in one or more other components of system .

The LB platform may include for example a verbal directions module or unit able to record and or publish landmarks leading to a destination a spatial module or unit able to generate a geo spatial layer for example a vertical multilateral positional and or thematic layer e.g. a virtual spatial layer that may be combined with landmark based guidance an advertising module or unit able to select or generate time based route based destination based and or context based advertising and a landmark based routing module or unit able to select and or determine routes route segments or route guidance information utilizing landmarks and pre defined criteria or preferences.

In some embodiments one or more components of the LB platform may be invoked separately or cumulatively by the application platform or by components thereof. For example a converged device may utilize the verbal directions module in order to provide to a user free style route guidance information similar to verbal directions. The converged device may utilize the landmark based routing module to provide to the user landmark based routing landmark based reassurance information routing reassurance information route recognition information destination recognition information or the like. The advertising module may be used to allow advertising using a map for example using visible landmark for example an advertisement may be selected or presented based on a landmark used for routing or for route guidance and not necessarily based on a keyword used by a user.

In some embodiments a positional reference database of the LB platform may include for example positions of landmarks as can be seen by the naked eye in context of blocks road signs intersections buildings mountains etc. that can be spatially mapped. For example a record for John Smith s office in the positional reference database may indicate that John Smith s office is situated two blocks south of the corner of Main Street and. Fifth Avenue. In some embodiments positional reference database may include spatial information which may not be derived from a map database. This information may be utilized for route guidance to John s Smith s office in one or more ways. In some embodiments for example the route guidance information may guide the user to reach the corner of Main Street and Fifth Avenue and then to turn right or left e.g. depending on the direction the user arrives from and go two blocks. In other embodiments the route guidance information may guide the user to reach the corner of Main Street and Fifth Avenue and then to go south two blocks. Other suitable implementations may be used

Some embodiments may utilize collaborative routing and or collaborative route guidance information for example using positional references positional relationships attributes and or semantics that provide non topological relationships between landmarks or information other than topology.

Some embodiments e.g. embodiments that are able to determine a current location of a user in substantially real time may advise a user what is or which landmarks are around the user what is or which landmarks are across from the user or ahead of the user what is or which landmarks are next to the user or in proximity to the user or surrounding the user what is or which landmarks are behind the user or in front of the user what is or which landmarks are on the left side of the user what is or which landmarks are on the right side of the user what is or which landmarks are below the user what can be seen or which landmarks can be seen by the user if the user looks up or down or left or right or to other directions or other positional references or positional relationships to assist a user to locate or co locate items or places. Some embodiments may utilize such information for route guidance.

The LB platform may further include or may be operably associated with an administration unit or module to control the operation of the LB platform or components thereof one or more landmark database s storing official landmarks indicated by the operator of mapping system and or unofficial landmarks added by users of mapping system and a collaborative relationship database storing semantic relationships between items or locations. In some embodiments for example information regarding a first landmark or a first business establishment may be marked as validated e.g. true or considered to be true based on input received from a second landmark or a second business establishment for example the collaborative relationship database may store an indication that the Three Bears Parking Lot is validated by John s coffee shop which is adjacent to that parking lot. In some embodiments for example the collaborative relationship database may store indications that two or more particular landmarks are related to each other for example semantically contextually or non topologically. For example the collaborative relationship database may store an indication that Jack s Veterinarian Clinic is located 30 meters away from or across the street from Natalie s Pet Supply Shop . This information may be used for example to selectively utilize the first landmark Jack s Veterinarian Clinic as route guidance information for a user that requests to reach the second landmark Natalie s Pet Supply Shop or vice versa or to otherwise utilize or co utilize the information.

The LB platform may optionally store e.g. in one or more databases information of personal contacts of one or more users optionally including geo spatial information of such personal contacts storing cooperating landmarks that paid an inclusion fee for their inclusion in maps for routing or route guidance purposes or other landmarks information or landmark related information.

In some embodiments for example system may utilize personal contacts of one or more users. For example a personal contacts database may be included in LB platform or may be operable associated with LB platform and may store information corresponding to personal contacts of one or more users e.g. raw information of personal contacts geo coded information reverse geo coded information converted information reformatted information or the like. In some embodiments personal contacts information may be obtained separately from each end user device optionally using various or multiple formats or file types may be stored separately on each end user device optionally using various or multiple formats or file types may be obtained from each end user device and then stored separately or cumulatively in the LB platform using one or more formats may be converted from a first format to a second format or from various multiple formats to a common format and then stored or may otherwise be obtained converted stored and or utilized. In some embodiments personal contacts may be stored by end user devices and may be converted or re formatted for utilization by mapping system . Although system shows the personal contacts database as a component of the LB platform embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard and personal contacts in raw format or in converted format may be stored and or utilized by other components of system .

In some embodiments the LB platform may utilize e.g. for mapping for routing and or for route guidance information a landmark whose owner paid an inclusion fee and may not utilize a landmark whose owner did not pay an inclusion fee . In some embodiments the LB platform may not utilize a landmark if an exclusion fee was paid in order to exclude that landmark from utilization e.g. paid by the landmark s owner by a third party by a competitor or the like . In some embodiments the LB platform may utilize a first landmark of a particular category e.g. a restaurant and may not utilize a second landmark of that category if the owner of the first landmark paid an exclusive fee in order to remain exclusive for example for a pre defined time period. Other conditions or criteria may be used.

The application platform may allow communication between the LB platform which may operate as a server in client server architecture and one or more end user devices which may operate as clients in a client server architecture. The application platform may include for example an internet connection module or unit able to receive mapping queries to send response to mapping queries to receive route planning queries or route guidance queries and or to respond to route planning queries or route guidance queries one or more OEM applications or modules for example an application that utilizes mapping and or routing and or route guidance one or more personal navigation devices PNDs a PND application a PND server or the like a call center application or unit an enterprise application or network one or more converged devices and or other suitable components units or modules.

Although portions of the discussion herein may relate for demonstrative purposes to systems or mapping systems using client server architecture embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard and may utilize other architectures or configurations. For example in some embodiments a mapping system or portions thereof may be implemented using stand alone devices a stand alone hardware a stand alone software application an embedded navigation system capable of operating in stand alone mode a stand alone component in which multiple units e.g. mapping system landmarks database content or the like are embedded in a client device or a stand alone component systems in which maps and or landmark information and or one or more databases are stored on CD or DVD or Flash cards or memory units or other storage units or the like.

The LB platform may communicate and or exchange information with the application platform using for example an application programming interface API . The LB platform may communicate and or exchange information with the mapping platform using for example an API . The LB platform may communicate and or exchange information with the content platform using for example an API .

In some embodiments for example the end user devices may include for example a mobile phone a PDA device a hybrid or combined mobile phone and PDA device a desktop computer a set top box a laptop computer a portable computer a pocket computer a navigation device or unit an Internet site an Internet application an online or offline application or the like. The end user device may utilize the application platform for example to directly or indirectly request maps route planning and or route guidance information. The application platform may communicate with the LB platform which may in turn generate and provide the requested data for example the requested maps route planning or route guidance information. The LB platform may utilize landmark based routing and or personal contacts based routing may utilize data from the mapping platform and may utilize content from the content platform . The requested maps route planning or route guidance information may be transferred back by the LB platform to the end user device using the application platform .

As schematically illustrated in a generated map may include for example road based indications as well as landmark based indications and or personal contacts based indications. For example map may include indications of streets and an indication of an avenue an indication of a landmark clock tower and an indication of a landmark Regency theater . Map may optionally include an indication for a route origin and a route destination point .

In some embodiments optionally the landmark indications and or may be represented using a graphical item having a contextual or symbolic meaning corresponding to the represented landmark or associated with the represented landmark. For example the landmark clock tower may be represented using a graphical item of a clock and the landmark Regency theater may be represented using a graphical item associated with the performing arts. Optionally a landmark may be represented using an illustration of a logo or a trademark associated with the landmark. In other embodiments for example a landmark need not be represented using a graphical item associated with the landmark and may be represented using a textual indication of the landmark s name or description e.g. a Clock Tower textual representation .

In some embodiments optionally a bubble a balloon a pushpin an icon or other identifier may be presented in proximity to the landmark for example to provide a textual description or name or logo or other details about the landmark. For example a balloon having the text Clock Tower may be presented in proximity to landmark and a balloon having the text Regency Theater may be presented in proximity to landmark . In some embodiments optionally balloons and for example may be permanently displayed or included in map may be added into map after a pre defined time period may be added into map in response to a user request may be added into map in response to hovering of a pointing cursor over a landmark may be removed from map in response to a user request or after a pre defined time period or the like.

In some embodiments map may optionally include a route or a portion thereof for example a driving route from origin to destination point . Optionally the route guidance information may be included and or presented e.g. optionally displayed with highlighting for example in proximity to presenting map . The route guidance information may include for example landmark based routing or route guidance. For example the route guidance information may include a textual item make a left turn at the clock tower and turn right at the Regency theater .

In some embodiments map and route may be presented or displayed in the context of a dynamic route guidance process for example using a vehicular or mobile navigation system routing system positioning system or the like.

In some embodiments maps may be presented from an angular or tilted point of view from a driver s eye point of view in line with a current moving direction of a vehicle or the like. Other modes of display may be used.

In some embodiments the display of the presented map may be dynamically modified and or updated substantially in real time based on the progress or movement of the user along a route.

In some embodiments optionally map may include representations of personal contacts of a user of map . For example a personal contact indication may represent the geographical location of Jack Smith Attorney which details name and address may be included in the personal contacts of the user of map . Optionally a balloon may provide textual information or other information for example a photograph of the personal contact corresponding with the indication . Similarly a personal contact indication may represent the geographical location of a sister of the user of map .

In some embodiments the route guidance information associated with route may optionally include information or instructions associated with the personal contacts represented by indications and or . For example the route guidance item make left at the clock tower may be replaced by or augmented with the route guidance item turn left at the last light before reaching your sister s house . Similarly for example the route guidance item turn right at the Regency theater may be replaced by or augmented with the route guidance item make a right turn at the corner of Attorney Jack Smith s office .

As schematically illustrated in another generated map may include for example landmark based indications and or personal contacts based indications but may not include street names indications. For example map of may be similar to map of but map of may not include the street names indications and of and or may not include the avenue name indication of . In some embodiments some users may find map to be less crowded with information and or more convenient for their usage in comparison with map of .

As schematically illustrated in yet another generated map may include for example landmark based indications and or personal contacts based indications but may not include street names indications and further may not include illustrations of streets or avenues. For example map of may be similar to map of but map of may not include the linear depiction of the streets and avenues. In some embodiments some users may find map of to be less crowded with information and or more convenient for their usage in comparison with map of and or map of .

As schematically illustrated in still another generated map may include for example landmark based indications and or personal contacts based indications but may not include street names indications may not include illustrations of streets or avenues and further may not include portions of the route that are not required for navigation purposes. For example map of may be similar to map of but map of may not include linear depiction of segments of route and may include only route segments and indicating a directional change or a navigational change in the route . In some embodiments some users may find map of to be less crowded with information and or more convenient for their usage in comparison with map of and or map of and or map of .

In some embodiments optionally an indication on a map corresponding to a personal contact may include a representation notifying the user that this indication is based on a personal contact of the user. For example as shown in the indication of a personal contact may be accompanied by an indication for example showing the abbreviation PC in proximity to indication thereby notifying the user that indication is based on a personal contact. Other suitable indications may be used to notify the user that a particular map element is associated with a personal contact of the user or is derived from the personal contacts list of the user.

In some embodiments optionally an indication on a map corresponding to an official landmark e.g. a landmark having information which is created and or validated by an administrator of the mapping system may be presented together with a representation notifying the user that this indication is based on an official landmark. For example as shown in the indication of an official landmark may be accompanied by an indication for example showing OF in proximity to indication thereby notifying the user that indication is based on an official landmark. Other suitable indications may be used to notify the user that a particular map element corresponds to an official landmark.

In some embodiments optionally an indication on a map corresponding to an unofficial landmark e.g. a landmark having information which is not created and or non validated by an administrator of the mapping system or based on non validated information contributed by one or more users may be presented together with a representation notifying the user that this indication is based on an unofficial landmark. For example as shown in the indication of an unofficial landmark may be accompanied by an indication for example showing UN in proximity to indication thereby notifying the user that indication is based on an unofficial landmark. Other suitable indications may be used to notify the user that a particular map element corresponds to an unofficial landmark.

Although shows for demonstrative purposes both an indication of an official landmark and an indication of an unofficial landmark embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard. In some embodiments for example a map may include indications of and route guidance information may refer to both official landmarks and unofficial landmarks in other embodiments a map may include indications of and route guidance information may refer to only official landmarks in still other embodiments a map may include indications of and route guidance information may refer to only unofficial landmarks in yet other embodiments a map may include indications of and route guidance information may refer to landmarks and or unofficial landmarks based on user selection or based on toggling on off official landmarks and or unofficial landmarks.

Additionally or alternatively an indication showing 4 users may notify the user that indication corresponds to an unofficial landmark regarding which a total of four users contributed information. Additionally or alternatively an indication showing QR 8 may notify the user that indication corresponds to an unofficial landmark associated with a score or a Quality Rating QR having a value of eight e.g. in accordance with a pre defined scale or scoring scheme . Other suitable indications may be used to notify the user of various attributes of one or more personal contacts official landmarks and or unofficial landmarks.

As indicated at block the method may optionally include for example creating a landmark database. The landmark database may include for example landmark description data and landmark location data.

As indicated at block the method may optionally include for example adding personal contacts data e.g. to the landmark database or to another database. For example personal contact description data and personal contact location data may optionally be added to the landmark database. This may optionally include importing converting and or reformatting of personal contact data.

As indicated at block the method may optionally include for example receiving as input from one or more users an indication of a request to modify the landmark database. For example the received input may include an indication of a request to add a landmark an indication of a request to remove or delete a landmark an indication of a request to modify a location or a description of a landmark or the like.

In some embodiments user input may be optional and need not be received in order to trigger an update or a modification of the landmark database. For example some embodiments may utilize automatic feedback which may not necessarily be based on a user request. For example an automatic feedback may be transmitted or utilized based on GPS information or based on other information sources or triggers. As indicated at block the method may optionally include for example modifying the landmark database based on the received input. In some embodiments optionally the modification may be performed if one or more conditions are met for example if the modification is requested by a pre defined number of users if the modification is requested by a trusted source or user if the requested modification is validated or verified or the like.

In some embodiments modification or updating of the landmark database may be performed manually for example by an administrator of the mapping system based on users feedback. In other embodiments modification or updating of the landmark database may be performed automatically or semi automatically. For example in one embodiment a data feed may indicate that a business establishment or a chain of business establishments is out of business and landmarks that are based on that business establishment or chain may automatically be removed or purged. In another embodiment for example information may be received e.g. from one or more users or from a third party information provider that a particular building is demolished e.g. intentionally demolished for re construction demolished due to a terror attack or an earthquake or hurricane storm or the like based on the received information the landmark database may be updated substantially automatically to remove or purge business establishments that existed in the demolished building. Other updating methods may be used.

In some embodiments optionally as indicated by arrow the operations of blocks and may be repeated for example to allow updating of the landmark database from time to time substantially continuously at pre defined time intervals when one or more conditions are met or the like.

As indicated at block the method may optionally include for example generating a map a route and or route guidance information optionally including a reference to a landmark for example an off route landmark.

Some embodiments of the invention may be implemented by software by hardware or by any combination of software and or hardware as may be suitable for specific applications or in accordance with specific design requirements. Embodiments of the invention may include units and or sub units which may be separate of each other or combined together in whole or in part and may be implemented using specific multi purpose or general processors or controllers or devices as are known in the art. Some embodiments of the invention may include buffers registers stacks storage units and or memory units for temporary or long term storage of data or in order to facilitate the operation of a specific embodiment.

Some embodiments may include devices and or systems using one or more suitable Operating Systems for example Microsoft Windows Microsoft Windows XP Microsoft Windows Vista Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Windows Embedded Microsoft Windows Mobile Unix Linux Sun Solaris Palm OS J2ME BREW an OS used by BlackBerry device s or other suitable Operating Systems.

Some embodiments of the invention may be implemented for example using a machine readable medium or article which may store an instruction or a set of instructions that if executed by a machine for example by device of by processor of or by other suitable machines cause the machine to perform a method and or operations in accordance with embodiments of the invention. Such machine may include for example any suitable processing platform computing platform computing device processing device computing system processing system computer processor or the like and may be implemented using any suitable combination of hardware and or software. The machine readable medium or article may include for example any suitable type of memory unit e.g. memory unit or storage unit memory device memory article memory medium storage device storage article storage medium and or storage unit for example memory removable or non removable media erasable or non erasable media writeable or re writeable media digital or analog media hard disk floppy disk Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM memory stick secure digital SD memory card Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Re Writeable CD RW optical disk magnetic media various types of Digital Versatile Disks DVDs a tape a cassette or the like. The instructions may include any suitable type of code for example source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code or the like and may be implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled and or interpreted programming language e.g. C C Java BASIC Pascal Fortran Cobol assembly language machine code or the like.

While certain features of the invention have been illustrated and described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents may occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

