---

title: Beverage production machines with restrictors
abstract: Machines and methods for preparing single-servings of a beverage. The machine can include a housing and a basket assembly positioned in the housing. The basket assembly defines a chamber capable of receiving a cartridge containing a beverage precursor. A screen having a plurality of openings can be positioned at a bottom portion of the chamber. A first plate having a single restricting orifice can be secured to the screen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09282849&OS=09282849&RS=09282849
owner: Starbucks Corporation
number: 09282849
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140311
---
This application is related to at least U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 198 titled SINGLE SERVE BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINE which is filed on the same day as the present application U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 256 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH MULTI CHAMBERED BASKET UNITS which is filed on the same day as the present application U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 261 titled CARTRIDGE EJECTION SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SINGLE SERVE BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES which is filed on the same day as the present application U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 241 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH TAMPING ASSEMBLY which is filed on the same day as the present application and U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 197 titled POD BASED RESTRICTORS AND METHODS which is filed on the same day as the present application. The entirety of each of the aforementioned applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Single serve beverage machines are devices that are designed to produce a single serving or sometimes a single cup of a desired beverage. In comparison to other types of beverage machines such as drip coffee makers having a multi cup carafe single serve beverage machines can enhance convenience by reducing the time to prepare the beverage.

Some single serve beverage machines use a cartridge or capsule containing one or more beverage components or precursors to produce the beverage. Generally such cartridges are received in the single serve beverage machine are used to produce the single serving of the beverage and are subsequently manually removed from the machine and discarded.

The following discussion is presented to enable a person skilled in the art to make and use one or more of the present embodiments. The general principles described herein may be applied to embodiments and applications other than those detailed below without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Indeed the present embodiments are not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments shown but are to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed or suggested herein.

Various restriction assembly embodiments are described below to illustrate various examples that may be employed to achieve one or more desired improvements. These examples are only illustrative and not intended in any way to restrict the general disclosure presented and the various aspects and features of the disclosure. Certain aspects advantages and features of the inventions have been described herein. It is not necessary that any or all such aspects advantages and features are achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment. Indeed not all embodiments achieve the advantages described herein but may achieve different advantages instead. Any structure feature or step in one example is contemplated to be used in place of or in addition to any structure feature or step of any other example. No features structure or step disclosed herein is essential or indispensable.

Some beverages can benefit from being prepared at a specific pressure. For example espresso can benefit from being prepared at an increased pressure in a brew chamber or cartridge. However due to variations in the beverage component or precursor e.g. due to variations in the grind tamp settling or disruption during shipping or otherwise it can be difficult to provide a consistent and predictable pressure in the brew chamber or cartridge.

Accordingly some aspects of the present disclosure describe a restriction assembly that can provide or facilitate creating an increased pressure in a brew chamber or cartridge which can aid in the production of certain beverages e.g. espresso and or can aid in compensating for certain inconsistencies in the beverage component or precursor. Some implementations of the restriction assembly can provide and or facilitate the creation of at least about 9 bar of pressure in the cartridge during operation of the beverage production machine.

Certain aspects of the disclosure are directed toward a machine for preparing single servings of a beverage. The machine can include a housing and a basket assembly positioned in the housing. The basket assembly can define a chamber capable of receiving a cartridge containing a beverage precursor. A screen having a plurality of openings can be positioned at a bottom portion of the chamber. A first plate having a single restricting orifice can be secured to the screen e.g. by welding or using screws .

In certain aspects the machine can include a spring loaded relief valve. The relief valve can move from a closed position to an open position when the pressure between the screen and the first plate exceeds a cracking pressure. In certain aspects the machine can include a needle valve having a plunger secured to the screen. The tip of the plunger can extend at least partially through the restricting orifice to restrict an open area of the restricting orifice. In certain aspects the machine can include a spring loaded check valve positioned below the restricting orifice. The check valve can move from a closed configuration to an open configuration when the valve is rotated to an inverted position and fluid flows in a downstream direction. In certain aspects the machine can include a leaf spring positioned across the restricting orifice. The leaf spring can move from a closed configuration to an open configuration when the leaf spring is rotated to an inverted position and fluid flows in a downstream direction. In certain aspects the machine can include a second plate and a compression spring positioned between the first plate and the second plate. The second plate can include a plunger extending at least partially through the restricting orifice when the first plate is moved toward the second plate.

Certain aspects of the disclosure are directed toward a method for preparing single servings of a beverage. The method can include providing a beverage production machine including a basket assembly having a chamber a screen having a plurality of openings positioned at a bottom portion of the chamber and a first plate secured to the screen. The first plate can include a single restricting orifice. The method can also include inserting a cartridge containing a beverage precursor into the chamber. Further the method can include introducing a liquid into communication with the beverage precursor to form the beverage flowing the beverage through the plurality of openings of the screen and dispensing the beverage through the single restricting orifice of the first plate to create at least 9 bar of pressure between the screen and the plate during use.

In certain aspects the method can include limiting the beverage flow through the single restricting orifice using a spring loaded relief valve. The method can also include moving the relief valve from a closed configuration to an open configuration when the pressure between the screen and the first plate is exceeds a cracking pressure. In certain aspects the method can include limiting the beverage flow through the restricting orifice using a needle valve. The method can also include adjusting a needle valve to adjust an open area of the restricting orifice. In certain aspects after directing the beverage through the restricting orifice the method can include flowing the beverage through a passageway defined by a spring loaded check valve. The method can also include rotating the check valve to an inverted position and moving the check valve from a closed configuration to an open configuration when fluid flows in a downstream direction. In certain variants the check valve can move from a closed configuration to an open configuration by delivering fluid in an upstream direction e.g. without rotating the check valve to an inverted position . In certain aspects the method can include limiting the beverage flow through the restricting orifice using a leaf spring. The method can also include rotating a leaf spring to an inverted position and moving the leaf spring from a closed configuration to an open configuration when fluid flows in a downstream direction. In certain variants the leaf spring can move from a closed configuration to an open configuration by delivering fluid in an upstream direction e.g. without rotating the check valve to an inverted position . In certain aspects the method can include moving the first plate toward a second plate such that a plunger of the second plate extends into the restricting orifice.

The beverage preparation machine can include a liquid reservoir within the brewer or external to the brewer . For example the liquid reservoir can be external to the brewer and in fluid communication e.g. via tubing or pipes with the brewer to provide liquid e.g. water stored within the liquid reservoir to a chamber within the brewer where the beverage is prepared. In various embodiments the liquid is pre heated before entering the chamber. For example the liquid may be heated within a separate storage reservoir or within fluid supply lines as the liquid travels to the chamber. The amount of liquid e.g. water provided to the chamber from the liquid reservoir may be determined by the beverage recipe. The liquid reservoir may include a water level sensor that can determine whether enough liquid is present in the liquid reservoir to prepare a requested beverage. In some embodiments the beverage preparation machine can include a frother unit not shown that can froth a liquid e.g. frothed milk . After dispensing a brewed beverage into the cup the frothed liquid e.g. frothed milk can be poured into the beverage. The frother unit may include a control input to toggle the frothing on and off.

As shown in the brewer can include a frame that supports a beverage production assembly having a brew basket assembly . As also shown an upper portion of the brewer can include a top with an opening to facilitate the loading of a single serving beverage cartridge e.g. a single serve cartridge with a porous upper and or lower surface into the basket assembly . The opening can be selectively opened and closed with a lid assembly . Additional details regarding single serve beverage cartridge are disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 191 225 titled STRETCHABLE BEVERAGE CARTRIDGES AND METHODS filed Feb. 26 2014 and U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 197 titled POD BASED RESTRICTORS AND METHODS filed on the same day as the present application the entirety of both of which is hereby incorporated by reference and should be considered a part of this specification.

In various embodiments the brewer includes an input and output unit . For example the input and output unit can include an indicator e.g. a light display dial or otherwise to indicate status information such as whether the brewer has power is operating requires maintenance etc. The input and output unit can include a user interface member e.g. a button or switch to provide instruction to the brewer such as a command to begin the beverage production process. The input and output unit can be connected with a memory and or a controller such as a microprocessor.

In some variants the input and output unit includes a reader. The reader can read a code e.g. optical code bar code quick response QR code etc. and or a tag e.g. an radio frequency identification RFID tag on the cartridge or associated packaging. This can allow the brewer to identify the type of beverage to be produced. For example reading a cartridge containing espresso coffee grounds can identify to the brewer that an espresso beverage is to be produced. In several implementations the beverage production assembly is adjusted based on the type of beverage to be produced as is discussed in more detail below. Additional details regarding the reader are disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 198 titled SINGLE SERVE BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINE filed on the same day as the present application the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference and should be considered a part of this specification.

In some implementations when the cartridge has been loaded into the basket assembly and the lid assembly has been closed a beverage preparation process can begin. In some embodiments of the beverage preparation process liquid e.g. hot water is introduced into the cartridge to produce a beverage. The beverage can exit the cartridge and be conveyed through portions of the brewer to the cup . For example the beverage can be conveyed through a dispensing assembly . In some embodiments the dispensing assembly includes a pivoting member a catch member and a dispensing nozzle .

As noted above and shown in the beverage production assembly can include the brew basket assembly . The beverage production assembly can also include a ratchet assembly and a collar . Engagement between the ratchet assembly and the collar can facilitate movement e.g. rotation of the basket assembly . The basket assembly can be selectively positioned to provide access to a desired chamber in the basket assembly such as for loading a cartridge. Additional details regarding the basket assembly are disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 256 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH MULTI CHAMBERED BASKET UNITS filed on the same day as the present application the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference and should be considered a part of this specification.

In some embodiments a tamping mechanism e.g. in the lid assembly depresses the cartridge positioned in the basket assembly . Additional details regarding the tamping mechanism can be found in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 241 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH TAMPING ASSEMBLY filed on the same day as the present application the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

In some embodiments rotation of the basket assembly can aid in ejecting or otherwise removing a used or unwanted cartridge from the basket assembly . More details about cartridge ejection mechanisms and features can be found in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 261 titled CARTRIDGE EJECTION SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SINGLE SERVE BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES filed on the same day as the present application the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Although the basket assembly described above includes multiple chambers the restriction assemblies described below can be used in connection with a basket assembly having a single chamber that can be removed from or fixed to the beverage production assembly .

As shown in the basket assembly can include a chamber for receiving a beverage precursor alone or a cartridge containing the beverage precursor. A restriction assembly can be disposed at a bottom portion of the chamber . The restriction assembly can facilitate creating or providing an increase in pressure in the chamber during the beverage production process. This can be beneficial in producing certain types of beverages. For example producing espresso under elevated pressure conditions e.g. about at least 9 bar can yield an improved beverage.

The restriction assembly can include a screen having a generally planar surface e.g. flat and a downward extending flange . The screen can include a plurality of openings that allow beverage to flow through the screen while preventing beverage precursor from escaping the chamber . Further the screen can support the cartridge and displace the cartridge from a restricting orifice see . In some embodiments the screen has a diameter greater than or equal to about 10 mm and or less than or equal to about 100 mm for example between about 20 mm and about 80 mm. Some embodiments have a diameter between about 30 mm and about 70 mm such as about 30 mm 35 mm 40 mm 45 mm 50 mm 55 mm 60 mm or values between the aforementioned values. Certain variants have a diameter greater than or equal to about 30 mm and or less than or equal to about 50 mm.

The plurality of openings can include at least about 100 holes at least about 125 holes at least about 150 holes at least about 175 holes at least about 200 holes at least about 250 holes at least about 300 holes or more. The plurality of openings can be evenly distributed across a number of rows or concentric rings. The ratio of the diameter of each hole compared to the diameter of the screen can be at least about 1 5 1 10 1 15 1 20 1 25 1 30 1 40 1 50 1 100 1 125 1 150 ratios between the aforementioned ratios or otherwise. For example each of the plurality of openings can include a diameter of less than or equal to about 1.0 mm such as about 0.75 mm about 0.50 mm about 0.25 mm or about 0.20 mm. The ratio of the total amount of open area to the surface area of the screen can be at least about 1 50 1 60 1 70 1 80 1 90 1 100 ratios between the aforementioned ratios or otherwise. Each of the openings can have a substantially uniform diameter from a top surface of the espresso screen to a bottom surface of the espresso screen. Further each of the openings can be generally aligned along an axis that is generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the beverage production machine. Further the outermost openings can be separated from an edge of the screen by at least 10 of the screen radius at least about 20 of the screen radius at least about 30 of the screen radius or at least about 40 of the screen radius.

As shown in the restriction assembly can include a plate secured to the screen e.g. by welding or using screws . For example the flange can be secured to the plate using a number of fasteners e.g. screws . The screen and the plate can be shaped to define a holding chamber . For example the plate can be slanted downward from a periphery of the plate to the center of the plate such that the beverage can flow towards a centrally disposed nozzle . The nozzle can define a restricting orifice that can restrict hamper or otherwise limit the discharge of liquid through the brew basket assembly . Limiting the discharge of liquid can facilitate creating a pressure increase in the holding chamber which can aid in the production of certain beverages e.g. espresso and or can aid in compensating for certain inconsistencies in the beverage component or precursor e.g. due to variations in the grind tamping settling or disruption during shipping or otherwise . Some implementations of the restricting orifice can provide and or facilitate the creation of at least about 6 bar and or less than or equal to about 12 bar of pressure in the holding chamber preferably at least about 9 bar during operation of the beverage production machine such as about 9 bar 10 bar 11 bar or 12 bar of pressure. In some embodiments the restricting orifice can achieve the desired pressure in less than or equal to about 25 seconds after introducing liquid into the cartridge often less than or equal to about 10 seconds such as less than or equal to about 8 seconds or less than or equal to about 5 seconds. Further the percentage of total dissolved solids i.e. an indicator of coffee strength can be less than about 5.0 such as between about 4.5 and about 5.0 . In some embodiments the percentage of total dissolved solids can be greater than about 5.0 .

According to some embodiments the restricting orifice is positioned in the generally radial center of the plate . In certain embodiments the restricting orifice is positioned off center. As shown in the restricting orifice can be aligned with e.g. extend about a longitudinal axis of the chamber . However in other implementations the restricting orifice can be positioned at an angle relative to the longitudinal axis. In certain embodiments the restricting orifice can be substantially smaller e.g. in diameter than a diameter of the chamber . For example the ratio of the diameter of the restricting orifice compared to the diameter of the screen can be between about 1 215 and about 1 5 such as no more than about 1 5 1 10 1 15 1 20 1 25 1 30 1 40 1 50 1 60 1 100 1 120 1 140 1 160 1 180 or 1 200 and or at least about 1 215. The restricting orifice can have a diameter of at least about 0.20 mm and less than or equal to about 6 mm such as at least about 0.2 mm about 0.5 mm about 1.0 mm about 1.5 mm about 2.0 mm about 2.5 mm about 3.0 mm about 3.5 mm about 4.0 mm about 4.5 mm or about 5 mm.

In some embodiments the restriction assembly can include a valve positioned in the nozzle . As shown in the valve can be a spring loaded pressure relief valve having a screw a spring and a plunger . The plunger can limit the flow area through the restricting orifice to provide or facilitate the creation of a pressure increase in the holding chamber . For example the open area can be at least about 0.25 mmand or less than or equal to about 3 mm such as at least about 2.5 mm about 2.0 mm about 1.5 mm about 1.0 mm about 0.5 mm or about 0.25 mm.

If the pressure in the holding chamber exceeds a cracking pressure e.g. if the restriction orifice gets clogged the relief valve can release the pressure that builds up behind the valve . When the pressure exceeds the cracking pressure the valve can moved to an open configuration to increase the open area of the restriction orifice to clear debris. In some embodiments the cracking pressure can be between about 100 psi and 150 psi for example about 110 psi about 120 psi about 130 psi 140 psi or values in between the aforementioned values. The cracking pressure can be adjusted by adjusting the pressure adjusting screw .

With reference to another illustrative embodiment of a restriction assembly is shown. The restriction assembly resembles or is identical to the restriction assembly discussed above in many respects. Accordingly numerals used to identify features of the restriction assembly are incremented by one hundred 100 to identify like features of the restriction assembly . This numbering convention generally applies to the remainder of the figures. Any component or step disclosed in any embodiment in this specification can be used in other embodiments.

As shown in the restriction assembly can include a screen permanently secured to a plate having a single restricting orifice . The screen can resemble or is identical to the screen . For example the screen can have a generally planar surface e.g. flat and a downward extending flange . The screen can include a plurality of openings that allow beverage to flow through the screen while preventing beverage precursor from escaping the chamber . Further the screen can support the cartridge and displace the cartridge from a restricting orifice .

The restriction assembly can include a plate secured to the screen e.g. the flange can be welded to the plate . The screen and the plate can be shaped to define a holding chamber . For example the plate can be slanted downward from a periphery of the plate to the center of the plate such that the beverage can flow towards the centrally disposed restricting orifice . The restricting orifice can restrict hamper or otherwise limit the discharge of liquid from the holding chamber . Limiting the discharge of liquid can facilitate creating a pressure increase inside the chamber which can aid in the production of certain beverages e.g. espresso and or can aid in compensating for certain inconsistencies in the beverage component or precursor e.g. due to variations in the grind tamping settling or disruption during shipping or otherwise . Some implementations of the restricting orifice can provide and or facilitate the creation of at least about 6 bar of pressure and or less than or equal to about 12 bar of pressure preferably at least about 9 bar of pressure such as about 9 bar about 10 bar about 11 bar or about 12 bar of pressure in the holding chamber during use. The restricting orifice can achieve the desired pressure in less than or equal to about 25 seconds after liquid is introduced into the cartridge often less than or equal to about 10 seconds such as less than or equal to about 8 seconds or less than or equal to about 5 seconds. Further the percentage of total dissolved solids can be less than about 5.0 such as between about 4.0 and about 5.0 .

The restricting orifice can be substantially smaller e.g. in diameter than a diameter of the chamber . For example the ratio of the diameter of the restricting orifice compared to the diameter of the chamber can be between about 1 220 and about 1 5 such as no more than about 1 5 1 10 1 15 1 20 1 25 1 30 1 40 1 50 1 60 1 100 1 120 1 140 1 160 1 180 or 1 200 and or at least about 1 220. For example the restricting orifice can have a diameter of at least about 0.005 inches and or less than or equal to about 0.03 inches for example at least about 0.008 inches about 0.009 inches 0.012 inches about 0.014 inches about 0.016 inches about 0.018 inches about 0.02 inches about 0.022 inches about 0.024 inches about 0.026 inches about 0.028 inches or values between the aforementioned values.

According to some embodiments the restricting orifice is positioned in the generally radial center of the plate . In certain embodiments the restricting orifice is positioned off center. As shown in the restricting orifice can be aligned with e.g. extend about a longitudinal axis of the chamber . However in other implementations the restricting orifice can be positioned at an angle relative to the longitudinal axis.

In some scenarios it can be desirable for the screen to be removable from the plate so the plate can be thoroughly cleaned or to clear the restricting orifice . For example as shown in the screen and the plate can include a number of openings for receiving one or more fasteners e.g. screws to secure the screen to the plate .

In another example as shown in the screen and the plate can be integrally formed in a basket configuration that can be positioned in the chamber . In certain variants the screen and the plate can be integrally formed with the chamber .

With reference to another illustrative embodiment of a restriction assembly is shown. The restriction assembly resembles or is identical to the restriction assembly discussed above in many respects. Accordingly numerals used to identify features of the restriction assembly are incremented by one hundred 100 to identify like features of the restriction assembly . This numbering convention generally applies to the remainder of the figures. Any component or step disclosed in any embodiment in this specification can be used in other embodiments.

As shown in the restriction assembly can include a screen secured to a plate having a single restricting orifice e.g. by welding or using screws . The screen can have a generally planar surface e.g. flat and a downward extending flange . The screen can include a plurality of openings that allow beverage to flow through the screen while preventing beverage precursor from escaping the chamber . Further the screen can support the cartridge and displace the cartridge from a restricting orifice .

The plate can resemble or is identical to the screen . For example the plate can be slanted downward from a periphery of the plate to the center of the plate such that the beverage can flow towards the centrally disposed restricting orifice . The restricting orifice can restrict hamper or otherwise limit the discharge of liquid from the holding chamber . Limiting the discharge of liquid can facilitate creating a pressure increase inside the holding chamber which can aid in the production of certain beverages e.g. espresso and or can aid in compensating for certain inconsistencies in the beverage component or precursor e.g. due to variations in the grind tamping settling or disruption during shipping or otherwise .

In some scenarios it can be desirable to adjust an open area of the restricting orifice e.g. depending on the type of beverage precursor or to clear debris . Accordingly as shown in the restriction assembly can include a needle valve having a body portion and a plunger secured to the body portion . The body portion can be integrally formed with or secured to a bottom surface of the screen . The body portion can be substantially aligned with the restricting orifice such that the tip of the plunger can extend into the restricting orifice to at least partially restrict the open area of the restricting orifice . Adjusting e.g. manually adjusting the axial position of the plunger adjusts the open area of the restricting orifice . During the brewing process the amount of open area can be at least about 0.25 mmand or less than or equal to about 3 mm such as at least about 2.5 mm about 2.0 mm about 1.5 mm about 1.0 mm about 0.5 mm or about 0.25 mm. Advantageously the plunger can be unscrewed and removed to facilitate the cleaning of the restriction assembly and clearing of any debris.

With reference to another illustrative embodiment of a restriction assembly is shown. The restriction assembly resembles or is identical to the restriction assembly discussed above in many respects. Accordingly numerals used to identify features of the restriction assembly are incremented by two hundred 200 to identify like features of the restriction assembly . This numbering convention generally applies to the remainder of the figures. Any component or step disclosed in any embodiment in this specification can be used in other embodiments.

As shown in the restriction assembly can include a screen secured to a plate having a single restricting orifice e.g. by welding or using screws . The screen can resemble or is identical to the screen . For example the screen can have a generally planar surface e.g. flat and a downward extending flange . The screen can include a plurality of openings that allow beverage to flow through the screen while preventing beverage precursor from escaping the chamber . Further the screen can support the cartridge and displace the cartridge from a restricting orifice .

The plate can be slanted downward from a periphery of the plate to the center of the plate such that the beverage can flow towards the centrally disposed restricting orifice . The restricting orifice can restrict hamper or otherwise limit the discharge of liquid from the holding chamber . Limiting the discharge of liquid can facilitate creating a pressure increase inside the holding chamber which can aid in the production of certain beverages e.g. espresso and or can aid in compensating for certain inconsistencies in the beverage component or precursor e.g. due to variations in the grind tamping settling or disruption during shipping or otherwise .

As shown in the restriction assembly can include a check valve positioned below the restricting orifice . The check valve can include a body portion a spring and a cone shaped plunger . The body portion can define a valve seat and a valve outlet and the body portion can be integrally formed with or secured to a bottom surface of the plate . The cone shaped plunger can have a first portion having a first diameter at one axial location and a second portion having a second diameter greater than the first diameter at a second axial location different than the first axial location. The plunger can also include a passageway extending along a length of the plunger . The diameter of the passageway can be generally the same as the diameter of the restricting orifice . Further as shown in the plunger can also be positioned in the body portion such that the second portion of the plunger is closer to the plate than the first portion

During the brewing process the check valve can be in a closed configuration in which the first portion of the plunger can be seated on the valve seat thereby closing the valve outlet and forcing the beverage to flow through the passageway extending through the plunger . During the rinse cycle the check valve can be rotated from an upright position to an inverted position such that the first portion of the plunger is closer to a fluid source than the second portion of the plunger . Fluid flowing downstream from the fluid source can move the check valve from the closed configuration to an open configuration so that debris can be cleared from the restriction assembly . In an alternative embodiment the check valve can move from a closed configuration to an open configuration by delivering fluid in an upstream direction while the check valve is in the upright position i.e. as shown in .

With reference to another illustrative embodiment of a restriction assembly is shown. The restriction assembly resembles or is identical to the restriction assembly discussed above in many respects. Accordingly numerals used to identify features of the restriction assembly are incremented by three hundred 300 to identify like features of the restriction assembly . This numbering convention generally applies to the remainder of the figures. Any component or step disclosed in any embodiment in this specification can be used in other embodiments.

As shown in the restriction assembly can include a screen secured to a plate having a single restricting orifice e.g. by welding or using screws . The screen can resemble or is identical to the screen . For example the screen can have a generally planar surface e.g. flat and a downward extending flange . The screen can include a plurality of openings that allow beverage to flow through the screen while preventing beverage precursor from escaping the chamber . Further the screen can support the cartridge and displace the cartridge from a restricting orifice .

The plate can have a generally planar surface e.g. flat and an upward extending flange that is secured to the screen flange . The restricting orifice can restrict hamper or otherwise limit the discharge of liquid from the holding chamber . Limiting the discharge of liquid can facilitate creating a pressure increase inside the holding chamber which can aid in the production of certain beverages e.g. espresso and or can aid in compensating for certain inconsistencies in the beverage component or precursor e.g. due to variations in the grind tamping settling or disruption during shipping or otherwise .

As shown in the restriction assembly can include a leaf spring valve positioned across the restricting orifice along an upper surface of the plate . The leaf spring can include a number of flaps e.g. two flaps . During the brewing process the flaps can restrict the open area of the restricting orifice to provide or facilitate the creation of an increased dispensing pressure. The restricted open area can be at least about 0.25 mmand or less than or equal to about 3 mm such as at least about 2.5 mm about 2.0 mm about 1.5 mm about 1.0 mm about 0.5 mm or about 0.25 mm. In some embodiments the leaf spring can have a different spring constant in each direction.

In some embodiments during the rinse cycle the leaf spring can be rotated from an upright position to an inverted position such that the plate is closer to a fluid source than the leaf spring . Fluid flowing downstream from the fluid source can move the flaps downward to open the restricting orifice so that debris can be cleared from the restriction assembly . In an alternative embodiment the leaf spring can move from a closed configuration to an open configuration by delivering fluid in an upstream direction while the leaf spring is in the upright position i.e. as shown in .

With reference to another illustrative embodiment of a restriction assembly is shown. The restriction assembly resembles or is identical to the restriction assembly discussed above in many respects. Accordingly numerals used to identify features of the restriction assembly are incremented by four hundred 400 to identify like features of the restriction assembly . This numbering convention generally applies to the remainder of the figures. Any component or step disclosed in any embodiment in this specification can be used in other embodiments.

As shown in the restriction assembly can include a screen secured to a first plate having a single restricting orifice e.g. by welding or using screws . The screen can resemble or is identical to the screen . For example the screen can have a generally planar surface e.g. flat and a downward extending flange . The screen can include a plurality of openings that allow beverage to flow through the screen while preventing beverage precursor from escaping the chamber . Further the screen can support the cartridge and displace the cartridge from a restricting orifice .

The first plate can resemble or is identical to the screen . For example the first plate can be slanted downward from a periphery of the first plate to the center of the first plate such that the beverage can flow towards the centrally disposed restricting orifice . The restricting orifice can restrict hamper or otherwise limit the discharge of liquid from the holding chamber . Limiting the discharge of liquid can facilitate creating a pressure increase inside the holding chamber which can aid in the production of certain beverages e.g. espresso and or can aid in compensating for certain inconsistencies in the beverage component or precursor e.g. due to variations in the grind tamping settling or disruption during shipping or otherwise .

As shown in the restriction assembly can include a second plate separated from the first plate by a compression spring . The second plate can include an upward extending needle shaped plunger . The plunger can be sized to fit within the restricting orifice . Further the plunger can be surrounded by a number of openings through which the beverage can flow. The openings can be positioned in a ring configuration surrounding the plunger .

During the brewing process the first plate can be pushed against the second plate to restrict e.g. at least partially restrict the open area of the restricting orifice to provide or facilitate the creation of an increased dispensing pressure see . The restricted open area can be at least about 0.25 mmand or less than or equal to about 3 mm such as at least about 2.5 mm about 2.0 mm about 1.5 mm about 1.0 mm about 0.5 mm or about 0.25 mm. To rinse the restriction assembly fluid can flow in a reverse direction i.e. upstream to force the first plate away from the second plate to increase the size of the restricting orifice to clear debris see . In certain variants the restriction assembly can be inverted such that fluid flowing downstream can increase the pressure and cause the first plate to move away from the second plate to increase the size of the restricting orifice to clear debris during the rinse cycle.

The plurality of flow restrictors can include at least about 100 restrictors at least about 125 restrictors at least about 150 restrictors at least about 175 restrictors at least about 200 restrictors at least about 250 restrictors at least about 300 restrictors or more. As shown in the plurality of restrictors can be evenly distributed across a number of rows or concentric rings. The outermost restrictors can be separated from an edge of the screen by at least 10 of the screen radius at least about 20 of the screen radius at least about 30 of the screen radius or at least about 40 of the screen radius.

In some embodiments each flow restrictor can be generally conical or nozzle shaped. In certain such variants a reduced size portion e.g. the throat of the generally conical or nozzle shaped flow restrictor can generally abut the chamber . Each flow restrictor can be aligned with e.g. extend about an axis that is generally parallel with the longitudinal axis of the beverage production machine . However in other implementations the flow restrictors can be positioned at an angle relative to the longitudinal axis such as at least about 1 degree and or less than about 90 degrees. For example the angle can be between about 1 degree and 15 degrees e.g. about 1 degree about 3 degrees about 5 degrees about 7 degrees or about 10 degrees between about 15 degrees and 30 degrees between about 30 degrees and about 45 degrees between about 45 degrees and about 60 degrees between about 60 degrees and about 75 degrees or between about 75 degrees and about 90 degrees.

Various methods of forming the plurality of flow restrictors in the screen are contemplated. For example the plurality of flow restrictors formed by sintering or by laser cutting a metal screen .

Some implementations of the cartridge include additional or other pressure facilitating features. For example some embodiments of the cartridge include a valve e.g. a flap or duckbill valve that can be opened closed or modulated to generate pressure in the cartridge . In some embodiments the valve can generate the desired pressure in the cartridge . Certain embodiments of the valve can be actively adjusted such as based on liquid flow rate pressure in the cartridge or brew system or otherwise. Some variants of the valve can include a spring loaded valve that opens and closes or adjusts as the pressure in the cartridge increases and decreases. In various embodiments the valve can be opened for cleaning rinsing flushing and or to increase the flow rate out of the cartridge and or through the single serve beverage machine.

Although certain embodiments and examples of beverage production machines have been described herein with respect to coffee the beverage production machines described herein can be configured to receive other particulate materials or components for producing many other types of beverages such as a chocolate based product e.g. hot cocoa tea juice and other beverages. Further although some embodiments have been disclosed in which liquid is introduced into the cartridge the introduction of other phases is contemplated. For example in some embodiments steam or a combination of steam and liquid water is introduced into the cartridge. Additionally although certain embodiments have been disclosed that include a single beverage component or precursor the term beverage component or precursor is not limited to only a single component. Rather the beverage component or precursor can comprise one component e.g. coffee or a plurality of components e.g. coffee and a sweetener .

Although this disclosure describes certain embodiments and examples of restriction assemblies it will be understood by those skilled in the art that many aspects of the methods and devices shown and described in the present disclosure may be differently combined and or modified to form still further embodiments or acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure. Indeed a wide variety of designs and approaches are possible and are within the scope of this disclosure. No feature structure or step disclosed herein is essential or indispensible. Moreover while illustrative embodiments have been described herein the scope of any and all embodiments having equivalent elements modifications omissions combinations e.g. of aspects across various embodiments adaptations and or alterations as would be appreciated by those in the art based on the present disclosure.

Furthermore certain features that are described in this disclosure in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the combination may be claimed as a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Moreover while operations may be depicted in the drawings or described in the specification in a particular order such operations need not be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all operations be performed to achieve desirable results. Other operations that are not depicted or described can be incorporated in the example methods and processes. For example one or more additional operations can be performed before after simultaneously or between any of the described operations. Further the operations may be rearranged or reordered in other implementations. Also the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single product or packaged into multiple products.

For purposes of this disclosure certain aspects advantages and novel features are described herein. Not necessarily all such advantages may be achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment. Thus for example those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure may be embodied or carried out in a manner that achieves one advantage or a group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other advantages as may be taught or suggested herein.

Conditional language such as can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments.

Conjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y and Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to convey that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require the presence of at least one of X at least one of Y and at least one of Z.

Language of degree used herein such as the terms approximately about generally and substantially as used herein represent a value amount or characteristic close to the stated value amount or characteristic that still performs a desired function or achieves a desired result. For example the terms approximately about generally and substantially may refer to an amount that is within less than 10 of within less than 5 of within less than 1 of within less than 0.1 of and within less than 0.01 of the stated amount. As another example in certain embodiments the terms generally parallel and substantially parallel refer to a value amount or characteristic that departs from exactly parallel by less than or equal to 15 degrees 10 degrees 5 degrees 3 degrees 1 degree 0.1 degree or otherwise.

The language of the claims is to be interpreted broadly based on the language employed in the claims and not limited to the examples described in the present specification or during the prosecution of the application which examples are to be construed as non exclusive.

Some embodiments have been described in connection with the accompanying drawings. However the figures are not drawn to scale. Distances angles etc. are merely illustrative and do not necessarily bear an exact relationship to actual dimensions and layout of the devices illustrated. Components can be added removed and or rearranged. Further the disclosure herein of any particular feature aspect method property characteristic quality attribute element or the like in connection with various embodiments can be used in all other embodiments set forth herein. Additionally it will be recognized that any methods described herein may be practiced using any device suitable for performing the recited steps.

In summary various illustrative embodiments and examples of restriction assemblies have been disclosed. Although the restriction assemblies have been disclosed in the context of those embodiments and examples it will be understood by those skilled in the art that this disclosure extends beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative embodiments and or other uses of the embodiments as well as to certain modifications and equivalents thereof. This disclosure expressly contemplates that various features and aspects of the disclosed embodiments can be combined with or substituted for one another. Accordingly the scope of this disclosure should not be limited by the particular disclosed embodiments described above but should be determined only by a fair reading of the claims that follow as well as their full scope of equivalents.

