---

title: Fantasy league management
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems for managing a fantasy league are disclosed to incorporate one or more reality factors, equity lines, luxury tax, and/or revenue sharing policies into administration of the fantasy league. A reality factor may influence real life scenarios between at least one of a real player, a real team, and/or a real league, for example. Accordingly, the reality factor may be applied to at least one of a corresponding fantasy player, fantasy team, and/or fantasy league to create a fantasy rule configured to enable a fantasy environment (e.g., the fantasy player, fantasy team, fantasy league, and/or relationships thereof) to more closely emulate the real player, real team, real league, and/or corresponding relationships.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09555325&OS=09555325&RS=09555325
owner: FRONT OFFICE MEDIA LLC
number: 09555325
owner_city: Richfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140324
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 224 870 filed on Sep. 2 2011 and titled FANTASY LEAGUE MANAGEMENT which is incorporated herein.

In a fantasy league participants e.g. fantasy team owners may build a fantasy team that competes against other fantasy teams of other fantasy team owners. Participants generally have control over aspects a real general manager and or a real coach of a real team would otherwise manage. For example fantasy team owners may manage lineups of fantasy players draft trade cut sign add drop start and or bench fantasy players similarly as real managers would. Fantasy team owners may participate in a fantasy draft where respective fantasy teams acquire fantasy players which correspond to real players on real teams in real leagues e.g. professional sporting leagues . Typically fantasy team rosters may be reset between seasons although keeper leagues may allow for retention of at least some fantasy players from season to season. That is at an end of a fantasy season fantasy teams may clear their rosters prior to an upcoming draft and or permit fantasy team owners to retain at least some fantasy players from a fantasy roster for the next season e.g. a keeper league . Generally a keeper league draft may comprise rookies previously undrafted fantasy players and dropped fantasy players while drafts for other fantasy leagues may begin a draft with at least a majority of real players from the real league.

Typically an outcome of a fantasy league may be based on fantasy players belonging to fantasy teams in the fantasy league and on statistics related to performances of real players corresponding to fantasy players on respective fantasy teams. For example merely fantasy players designated to start on a roster may score points for a fantasy team. For example a fantasy team may be matched up against other fantasy team opponents e.g. from a fantasy league on a weekly basis and points may be awarded using a point scoring system or according to scoring categories e.g. touchdowns yards home runs hits earned run average points assists etc. . As an example a touchdown may be worth six points while increments of thirty passing yards may be worth one point and increments of twenty rushing and or receiving yards may be worth one point etc. Some fantasy leagues may track win loss records for head to head matchups between fantasy teams while other leagues may track total points to rank fantasy teams according to an ongoing point tally for example.

While current fantasy leagues account for on field performance of real players these fantasy leagues are not believed to consider other realities associated with managing a real team. For example head to head fantasy leagues generally do not promote a realistic fantasy payroll as part of head to head fantasy league play. That is an owner of a fantasy team may merely manage the fantasy team from a coaching and or drafting perspective without regard to finances payroll of players contractual agreements or league policies for example.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form which are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

One or more techniques and or systems for managing a fantasy league are disclosed to promote one or more reality factors during a match s and or administration of the fantasy league. The reality factor s may comprise data related to real life sources relating to economic contractual legal political and or other factors which may affect the real player real team real league and or relationships thereof. Accordingly the reality factor may be applied to the fantasy league such that the fantasy league and or environment more closely emulate the real league. In one exemplary embodiment the reality factor may comprise a performance bonus for a real player to be paid to the real player by a real team to which the real player belongs upon the real player achieving a pre determined performance e.g. throwing ten touchdowns winning a playoff game making an All Star Team etc. . To this end a reality factor comprising the performance bonus may be applied to a corresponding fantasy player e.g. a fantasy quarterback on a fantasy team to create a fantasy rule configured to deduct a corresponding fantasy performance bonus from a fantasy payroll for the fantasy team upon the real quarterback completing the pre determined performance. Other reality factors that may be applied to a fantasy player team and or league may comprise among other things trade restrictions luxury payrolls taxes 

It will be appreciated that the reality factor and or application of the reality factor to create a fantasy rule may be scaled to facilitate implementation within the fantasy league. Thus with regard to the fantasy luxury payroll tax the fantasy league may implement a salary cap e.g. which may be scaled different than an actual salary cap of the real league depending on a number of fantasy teams within a fantasy league for example. Alternatively the fantasy league may mirror the luxury payroll tax policy of the real league and follow a fantasy rule substantially similar to the actual salary cap and or luxury tax of the real league.

In one embodiment for management of a fantasy league a fantasy payroll and fantasy equity line may be provided such that a fantasy team owner may draft trade for and or acquire fantasy players e.g. by way of waiver wire until the fantasy payroll is exhausted. For example fantasy team owners may begin a season with an initial fantasy payroll and draft fantasy players according to minimum contract obligations and or maximum contract obligations owed to the real player. However since contracts for the real player may be based on performance e.g. by performance bonuses production statistics whether or not the real player makes the playoffs an All Star Team etc. a value for the contract may be unknown at a time when a fantasy team acquires a fantasy player and or until a season is over. To this end incorporating reality factors in fantasy leagues enables a contract value for a respective player to fluctuate throughout a fantasy season similar to that of a real contract value. Therefore it may be possible for a fantasy team owner to owe fantasy players additional money e.g. performance bonuses endorsements etc. as a season progresses. To this end a fantasy equity line may provide a fantasy team owner with an increase to a fantasy payroll in a scenario where the allocated fantasy payroll is exceeded. Further the fantasy equity line may be available before e.g. during a fantasy draft or prior to actual play during e.g. due to performance bonuses to paid to fantasy players and or after e.g. for offseason trades the fantasy season. For example if a fantasy team spends at least a majority of fantasy payroll during the draft but desires to continue drafting additional players a fantasy equity line may extend a loan to the fantasy team in exchange for repayment at an interest rate. In this way the fantasy team may draft the additional player but may be charged with repaying a loan and additional interest for example. In one example if a fantasy team exhausts a fantasy payroll of one hundred million the fantasy team may draft an additional player e.g. with a corresponding ten million dollar salary by taking a ten million dollar loan through the fantasy equity line. In this example the fantasy equity line may be configured to setup a repayment plan for the fantasy team comprising ten monthly one million dollar payments at a five percent interest rate compounded monthly. In another example a fantasy team may merely use a fantasy payroll provided during an initial draft for fantasy players e.g. spending an amount of a provided fantasy payroll such that zero fantasy payroll remains and invoke the fantasy equity line upon one of the fantasy players on the fantasy team achieving a performance bonus e.g. opening the fantasy equity line due to a new monetary obligation created by a performance bonus clause in a contract for the real player where a reality factor comprises the real performance bonus clause . Additionally aspects pertaining to the equity line may be used for scoring head to head matches between fantasy teams and or overall performance of a fantasy team within the fantasy league. For example one of the scoring categories may comprise a comparison between two fantasy teams to determine a team associated with borrowing less equity e.g. the team which borrowed less money may be awarded a point in an equity scoring category . Therefore it is believed that the equity line promotes an economic aspect of fantasy league management for example.

According to one aspect social media actions relating to a fantasy team owner and or a fantasy team may be used to adjust a fantasy payroll and or a fantasy equity line. That is for example if a fantasy team owner creates a social media page corresponding to the fantasy team the fantasy team owner may be rewarded with an increase to the fantasy payroll and or equity line for creating the social media page. As another example the fantasy team owner may be rewarded e.g. by way of a fantasy payroll increase fantasy equity line increase and or a fantasy interest rate decrease when other social media users act in a manner related to e.g. the fantasy team e.g. via microblogs blogs posts likes status updates etc. .

In one embodiment achievements and or prizes may be awarded to fantasy team owners and or fantasy teams for accomplishing feats within the fantasy league. For example a winner of a fantasy league may receive a fantasy team logo which may appear as an icon and or an avatar on a homepage for the fantasy team and or social media pages related to the fantasy team. A fantasy team owner could purchase merchandise bearing the fantasy team logo for example. Achievements related to reality factors may be awarded for fantasy team owners who obtain a fantasy win streak break a fantasy win streak of another fantasy team owner achieve a win to fantasy payroll spent ratio earn the most net profit acquire players corresponding to a best fantasy point production to contract cost ratios and or make the most efficient trades.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

One or more techniques and or systems for managing a fantasy league are provided herein. For example one or more reality factors related to a real player a real team and or a real league may be received and applied to a fantasy player a fantasy team and or a fantasy league. The reality factor s may comprise but are not limited to economic political legal and or policy oriented aspects commonly associated with real players real teams and or real leagues. For example if a real player signs a contract with a no trade clause a real team to which the real player belongs may not trade the real player to another real team without consent from the real player. Applying the no trade reality factor to a fantasy environment e.g. at least one of a fantasy player fantasy team fantasy league and or relationships thereof may create a fantasy rule which provides that the fantasy player corresponding to the real player may be at least one of untradeable and or inhibited from trade. Moreover in one embodiment using the techniques described herein a fantasy rule based upon the no trade reality factor may optionally penalize fantasy team owners who participate in a trade involving the corresponding fantasy player.

At in the example method a draft may be administered to distribute fantasy players to fantasy teams. It will be appreciated that the draft may be automatic e.g. based on the set presented at and or the customized order and or live enabling the fantasy team owner to make adjustments to picks in real time. Generally a fantasy league is comprised of a plurality of fantasy team owners e.g. participants and respective fantasy team owners take turns drafting players using a serpentine ordering e.g. a fantasy team owner who picks first in an odd round may be setup to pick last in an even round etc. . However other techniques for determining an order for the draft are also contemplated herein e.g. such as a lottery system . In one embodiment fantasy team owners may trade fantasy draft picks and or fantasy players prior to during and or after the fantasy draft based on one or more trading reality factors. For example if a first team drafts a top fantasy player and has no fantasy draft picks remaining and a second team drafts an average fantasy player and has a fantasy draft pick remaining the first team may trade the top fantasy player to the second team for the average fantasy player and the remaining fantasy draft pick. In one embodiment a fantasy team owner may trade for future fantasy draft picks e.g. during a season after an initial draft has concluded during a fantasy draft etc. . In another embodiment a fantasy team owner may trade a portion of their fantasy payroll e.g. play money in exchange for fantasy draft picks and or fantasy players. For example a first fantasy team may buy a fantasy draft pick and or a fantasy player from a second fantasy team using at least a portion of the fantasy payroll of the first fantasy team. In this way the ability to freely trade fantasy draft picks fantasy players and or fantasy payroll may be promoted based on a reality factor indicative of trading policies and or a trade protocol of a real league. Accordingly trades which may be possible in the real league may be enabled in the fantasy league as well based on one or more trading reality factors for example.

At in the exemplary method matches may be scheduled between fantasy teams such that a first fantasy team is scheduled to meet head to head with one or more other fantasy teams for example. In one embodiment various head to head categories may be provided and respective fantasy teams may compete to win respective categories and score points. To this end points for scoring categories may be summed e.g. a team winning more categories may be declared a winner of a head to head matchup to determine a winner for a match for example. In one embodiment fantasy teams may be awarded points based on statistics e.g. six points for a touchdown related to players on respective fantasy teams and a winner of a match may be chosen based on a point total rather than by scoring categories.

At scores for respective matches between fantasy teams may be calculated based on statistics for respective fantasy players on respective fantasy teams. For example one scoring category may comprise a collective player salary configured to compare collective fantasy player salaries from fantasy teams to determine a team with a lower fantasy payroll e.g. the team with the lower fantasy payroll may be awarded a point in the collective player salary scoring category . In one embodiment if a point total scoring system is used a number of points may be subtracted from a point total of a fantasy team based on an amount of debt e.g. fantasy payroll spent fantasy equity incurred by the fantasy team etc. for example. In another embodiment the number of points subtracted may be tiered based on an amount of debt e.g. minus one point for one to ten million of debt minus five points for ten to twenty million of debt etc. . It will be appreciated that fantasy payroll spent may be treated differently e.g. more or less favorably than fantasy equity incurred at least because fantasy equity may be associated with fantasy interest for example.

Continuing with exemplary method winners of respective matches may be determined at in the example method . For example in a head to head matchup the winner may be determined based on a fantasy team winning more categories than another fantasy team. To this end fantasy teams may accumulate a fantasy record as a fantasy season progresses.

Prizes and or achievements may be awarded to winners throughout and or at a conclusion of the fantasy season at in the example method . As an example a fantasy team winning a fantasy season e.g. a fantasy champion may receive a customized logo with a corresponding fantasy team emblem. That is for example members e.g. fantasy team owners of the fantasy league may be presented with the customized logo of the fantasy team when viewing pages related to the winning team for example. Similarly a fantasy team owner may receive an achievement for an efficient trade and be rewarded with an icon to be displayed next to a corresponding fantasy player acquired by the efficient trade. To this end rewards may comprise an increase in fantasy payroll an additional roster spot and or additional draft picks for an upcoming draft for example. The exemplary method ends at thereafter.

At in the example method the received one or more reality factors are applied to at least one of a fantasy player fantasy team and fantasy league to create a fantasy rule. It will be appreciated that an application of the fantasy rule may depend at least in part upon whether the received factor pertains to a real player a real team and or a real league. For example a reality factor that merely pertains to a real player e.g. as opposed to a real team and or a real league may be applied to a corresponding fantasy player. However at least some reality factors may not be applicable in a fantasy game Without at least some variation in the fantasy rule e.g. relative to the reality factor e.g. real contractual agreement . For example in professional sports a real player who becomes a free agent may have the option to select his her team. However in a fantasy league fantasy players typically do not have such discretion e.g. the fantasy team owners choose their respective fantasy players through a draft trade etc. . Therefore the reality factor e.g. the free agency contractual obligation may be adapted to be more applicable to a fantasy league. Moreover a fantasy team generally comprises fantasy players that correspond to real players on numerous teams e.g. such that there isn t a direct correlation between a real team and a fantasy team . Thus for these reason and others it will be appreciated that at least some reality factors e.g. such as some real rules contractual obligations etc. may not be directly applied in the fantasy league. Rather the fantasy rule created at may be an adaptation of the received reality factor for example. That is in one embodiment one or more fantasy rules created at may be merely loosely based upon the received reality factor for example as opposed to a direct application of the received reality factor.

Paragraphs 0035 through 0044 of the instant disclosure provide several examples of reality factors that may be received at and an application of the received reality factors to create rules at . It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the reality factors described herein and or the fantasy rules derived therefrom are merely example factors that may be received at and or fantasy rules derived therefrom that may be applied to a fantasy player fantasy team and or fantasy league at . Such examples are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all such reality factors and or fantasy rules.

One example of a reality factor that may be received at may be indicative of a trade protocol for a real league. To this end if a trade may be feasible in the real league e.g. based on the trade protocol a fantasy rule may be created at indicative of this reality factor. For example if the trade protocol enables draft picks real players and or real payroll to be traded before during and or after a draft a fantasy rule may be created to enable trading of fantasy players fantasy picks and or fantasy payroll before during and or after a fantasy draft.

As another example the received reality factor s may comprise a contract expiration date for a real player. Accordingly a fantasy rule may be created at to initiate a release of a fantasy player corresponding to the real player whose contract has an expiration date and or may create a fantasy rule that provides for the release of fantasy players as respective real players with whom the fantasy players correspond are released from their respective contracts. It will be appreciated that the fantasy rule created at may deviate from aspects of the received reality factor e.g. in scenarios where application of the reality factor may not correspond in a one to one manner from the real league to the fantasy league . For example when a contract for a real player expires the real player may become a free agent and sign with a real team based on various factors e.g. hometown location highest bidder best opportunity to win a championship for the real player etc. . Because some of these aspects may not come into play in a fantasy league fantasy players released from respective fantasy teams due to contract expiration may instead be placed in a fantasy draft for an upcoming season based on the corresponding fantasy rule created at for example.

In yet another embodiment the received reality factor s may comprise information related to a salary cap for a real league e.g. providing that real teams within the real league may not exceed a salary of a specified amount and at the salary cap information may be applied to create a fantasy rule for the fantasy league. For example the fantasy rule may inhibit an acquisition of players based on minimum contract value e.g. a fantasy team may merely acquire fantasy players if a fantasy payroll of the fantasy team covers a maximum contract value for a potential player for example. Therefore if a fantasy team owner has twenty million in remaining fantasy payroll the fantasy rule may be configured to inhibit a fantasy team from acquiring a fantasy player with a fifteen million dollar salary and six million dollars in potential incentives.

In one embodiment the received reality factor s may comprise a salary cap luxury payroll tax and or a revenue sharing plan from the real league where the real league taxes teams based on a percentage of an amount the salary cap is exceeded by. For example if a real team exceeds the salary cap by X the real team may owe the real league Y of the X. Further in one embodiment the luxury tax may be distributed to other teams within the real league to aid smaller market teams based on the revenue sharing plan. If the luxury payroll reality factor is applied to a fantasy league a fantasy rule may be created at comprising a fantasy salary cap a fantasy luxury payroll tax e.g. a percentage to be paid by a fantasy team upon exceeding the fantasy salary cap and or a fantasy revenue sharing plan for example. It will be appreciated that the fantasy salary cap fantasy luxury payroll tax and or distribution plan may be scaled to facilitate implementation within the fantasy league. Therefore if the real league has a salary cap of two hundred million and a tax of ten percent the fantasy league may tailor the fantasy rule to implement scaled variations of the salary cap luxury tax and or revenue sharing plan e.g. a fantasy salary cap of one hundred million with a fantasy luxury tax rate of five percent rather than matching numbers provided by the corresponding reality factor for example. Further the fantasy league may distribute the collected luxury tax to other fantasy teams to promote an aim of the salary cap luxury payroll tax and or the revenue sharing plan for example.

Another example of a reality factor that may be received at may relate to a no trade clause for a real player. The reality factor may reflect a clause stating that the real player may not be traded to another real team unless the real player provides consent for the trade. However since aspects related to trade consent may not come into play in a fantasy environment a fantasy rule may be created which inhibits trade of a corresponding fantasy player between fantasy teams e.g. regardless of consent for example.

In yet another example a received reality factor may relate to a guaranteed money clause for a real player which provides that the real player may receive a salary from a real team in the event of an injury and or release from the real team. To this end a fantasy rule may be created that provides that a fantasy player on a fantasy team may be paid from a fantasy payroll of the fantasy team to which the fantasy player is associated unless the fantasy player is acquired by another team regardless of whether the fantasy player plays e.g. if a first fantasy team acquires a fantasy player corresponding to a real player with a guaranteed money clause and the first fantasy team drops the fantasy player from a first fantasy team roster the first fantasy team may be responsible for at least a portion of a salary for the dropped fantasy player until the fantasy player is acquired by a second fantasy team . On the other hand a fantasy rule may be created that excuses a fantasy team owner from further obligations to a fantasy player corresponding to a real player upon release of the fantasy player from the fantasy team if a received reality factor indicates that a contract for the real player does not comprise a guaranteed money clause.

As another example the received reality factor may relate to disciplinary action e.g. fines received by the real player for committed transgressions and a fantasy rule may be created which tracks a number of times a player receives discipline throughout a season and penalizes a fantasy team owner for corresponding behavior. For example if a real player receives a fine e.g. ten thousand dollars for unsportsmanlike conduct the fantasy rule may carry the fine over from the real league to the fantasy league and deduct the ten thousand dollar fine from a payroll of a fantasy team comprising a fantasy player corresponding to the real player who received the fine. As another example a fantasy rule may be created to inhibit a fantasy team owner from starting a fantasy player upon a corresponding real player receiving disciplinary action.

Another reality factor may pertain to a signing bonus of a real player. Typically a real player may be paid a signing bonus at a beginning of a contract term. Thus a fantasy rule may be created which provides that respective fantasy teams may be charged with the signing bonus upon acquisition of a corresponding fantasy player. For example if a first fantasy team acquires a fantasy player corresponding to real player with a five million dollar signing bonus the first fantasy team may be required to pay the fantasy a bonus using their fantasy payroll.

Yet another reality factor may relate to a performance bonus clause from a contract for a real player. Typically a performance bonus provides a real player with a sum of money for achieving a pre determined performance. For example the performance bonus clause may award a baseball player a sum of money for winning a batting title. To this end a fantasy rule may be created that is provides for the deduction of a performance bonus from a fantasy payroll of a fantasy team to which the corresponding fantasy player belongs upon the real player achieving the pre determined performance. That is for example if a real player has a performance bonus clause of ten million dollars for hitting fifty home runs a performance bonus e.g. which may be equal to the sum of the real performance bonus or may be different may be deducted from a fantasy payroll of a fantasy team which owns a corresponding fantasy player.

As another example a reality factor may relate to an impact a real player has on other real players a real franchise a real team and or a real league for example. A real player may impact a real team by demonstrating leadership frame creating locker room drama media distractions drawing fans based on a popularity of the real player and or creating opportunities for a real team to win games etc. Based upon this reality factor a fantasy rule may be created to determine an impact number indicative of an overall impact a real player has on a real franchise a real team and or a real league for example. In one embodiment a positive impact number may be indicative of a positive impact of a real player while a negative impact number may represent a negative impact for the real player. Accordingly if a real player adversely affects locker room chemistry and often receives boos from fans a corresponding fantasy player may be assigned a negative impact number e.g. and may cause a deduction in a payroll of a fantasy team to which the fantasy player is associated . On the other hand a real player who performs poorly on the field but is otherwise generally popular coveted by fans and or teammates may be assigned a higher impact number to be associated with a corresponding fantasy player e.g. and may cause an increase in a payroll of a fantasy team to which the fantasy player is associated . To this end impact numbers for fantasy players of a fantasy team roster may be summed averaged and or compared with corresponding impact numbers from a second fantasy team for head to head scoring for example. The example method ends at .

In one embodiment of the example method after a draft is held e.g. as described in the example method of signing bonuses e.g. for respective fantasy players corresponding to real players who have signing bonuses may be deducted from respective fantasy payrolls of respective teams at . For example if a fantasy team drafts a fantasy player corresponding to a real player who has a five million dollar signing bonus in his her contract the five million dollar signing bonus e.g. or a signing bonus of a different sum may be deducted from a fantasy payroll for the fantasy team. According to one aspect a signing bonus for a fantasy player may be deducted from a fantasy payroll upon a fantasy team acquiring the fantasy player regardless of whether the signing bonus has already been paid by another fantasy team. According to another aspect signing bonuses may be deducted merely during a fantasy draft enabling fantasy teams to acquire fantasy players e.g. by trade free agency and or waivers during a fantasy season without paying the signing bonus.

At in the example method salaries of fantasy players may be deducted from a fantasy payroll of a fantasy team periodically throughout the season. In one embodiment player salaries may be deducted on a weekly basis e.g. but other deduction timetables are contemplated herein and may depend for example upon how a real league manages payroll deductions . For example if a fantasy player has a sixteen million dollar salary e.g. based upon a salary of a real player to which the fantasy player corresponds and a season is sixteen weeks long one million may be deducted from the fantasy payroll for that fantasy player weekly.

It will be appreciated that in another embodiment fantasy player salaries and signing bonuses may be summed and deducted over a course of a season e.g. such that the acts describes at and are merely a single act spread out over the season . For example if a player has a one hundred million dollar salary and a sixty million dollar signing bonus sixteen million may be deducted on a weekly basis over the course of a ten game season. In one embodiment if a fantasy team acquires a fantasy player partway through the season the fantasy team may be responsible for merely a portion of the fantasy player s salary that is due payable after the fantasy team has acquired the fantasy player.

At in the example method a payroll of a fantasy team may be increased based upon an equity line. For example a fantasy team owner e.g. participant that desires to raise a fantasy payroll e.g. obtain more imaginary money for the fantasy team may request an equity line e.g. by contributing a specified sum of real money and an equity line may be extended e.g. by the fantasy league to increase the payroll of a fantasy team owned by the fantasy team owner. Various scenarios may arise which may justify use of the fantasy equity line. For example if a fantasy team comprises injured fantasy players e.g. fantasy players corresponding to real players who are injured a fantasy team owner may wish to take out a loan through the fantasy equity line to obtain replacement fantasy players. As another example if a fantasy team owner depletes a fantasy payroll of the fantasy team during an initial draft performance bonuses may charge the fantasy team owner with additional e.g. unexpected fantasy payroll deductions. Accordingly in this example the fantasy team owner could request a loan using a fantasy equity line for an amount of the performance bonus.

At in the example method the payroll of a fantasy team may be decreased based upon equity line interest and or loan repayment. For example if a fantasy team owner receives a loan e.g. equity line at to increase payroll the fantasy team may be required to repay the loan plus interest according to a loan repayment schedule e.g. which may require that the loan by paid back by the end of a season and or which may allow the loan to be repaid over the course of a plurality of seasons .

At in the example method fantasy payroll for a fantasy team may be adjusted to reflect management skills of a fantasy team owner for the fantasy team. According to one aspect the fantasy payroll may be increased for winning and or losing fantasy matches against other fantasy teams e.g. providing a winner s revenue and a losers revenue . These revenues may simulate income and or cash flow a real franchise and or a real team may earn from winning and or losing games. Moreover fantasy payroll may be based on reality factors such as fan attendance e.g. player impact . For example respective fantasy players on a fantasy roster may be associated with fan attendance and or player popularity. To this end a cumulative effect on fan attendance may be determined from reality factors associated with respective fantasy players for respective fantasy teams. Accordingly this impact on fan attendance may be used to determine adjustments to a fantasy payroll for a fantasy team. For example a reality factor associated with high fan attendance may increase winning and or losing revenue by a multiplication factor e.g. multiplying the fantasy revenue by a multiplication factor greater than one . A low attendance reality factor may decrease fantasy revenue e.g. by multiplying the fantasy revenue by a multiplication factor less than one . In one embodiment awards and or achievements may comprise an increase to the fantasy payroll and or fantasy equity line. Further adjustments may be made to interest rates of the fantasy equity line to reward and or punish fantasy team owners. For example if a fantasy team defaults on a fantasy loan payment an increase may be made to the interest rate for the fantasy loan.

The fantasy payrolls and or equity lines e.g. interest rates on loans may also be adjusted based upon a number of followers a fantasy team has. In one embodiment webpages e.g. including social media websites blogs microblogs etc. may be monitored for posts indicative of a fantasy team and a fantasy team may be rewarded e.g. by an increased payroll and or lower interest rates for identify posts indicative of the fantasy team. For example respective fantasy teams may create a webpage on a popular social networking webpage and based upon the number of followers of the webpage e.g. the number of people liking the webpage the number of people linking the webpage to a microblog etc. payroll e.g. revenue and or an equity line may be adjusted. Moreover it will be appreciated that while reference is made herein to adjusting the payroll and or equity line to reward of a fantasy team the payroll and or equity line of a team may be negatively impacted if the fantasy team has few followers e.g. just as the revenue of a real team with a smaller fan base may receive less revenue than another real team that has a much larger fan base . The example method ends at .

At in the example method fantasy payrolls may be increased for respective fantasy teams upon collection of one or more payments from respective fantasy team owners. For example a payment e.g. of real money from one of the fantasy team owners may increase a fantasy payroll for a fantasy team from one hundred million to two hundred million. In one embodiment however an increase to a fantasy payroll of one team may trigger adjustments e.g. luxury tax revenue sharing to fantasy payrolls of other teams the adjustments based on the increase to the fantasy payroll. For example if one fantasy team increases their fantasy payroll e.g. by submitting an additional league fee remaining fantasy teams may receive a smaller increase e.g. at no additional fee or for a smaller fee in fantasy payroll. It will be appreciated that increasing the fantasy payrolls of remaining teams may be optional as a fantasy league may implement an increase in fantasy payroll for one team without making adjustments to fantasy payrolls for other teams.

At in the example method matches may be scheduled held and or conducted between fantasy teams and scores may be calculated for respective fantasy teams and or fantasy matches based on fantasy players on respective fantasy teams reality factors associated with respective fantasy players and or statistics associated with fantasy players on respective fantasy teams. For example scores may be calculated by summing and or averaging statistics for respective scoring categories. That is for example in a fantasy football league a total number of touchdowns may be tallied for respective fantasy teams and a point may be awarded to a team with a higher number of touchdowns. Some categories may award points for smaller numbers rather than larger ones and or some categories may be scored different than other categories e.g. a team with the most touchdowns may be awarded two points and a team with the most field goals may be awarded merely one point . For example with regard to a number of fumbles a fantasy team collectively commits a fantasy team with a lower number of fumbles generally receives one or more points for the fumble scoring category. In another example scores may comprise player popularity e.g. a team with a higher average popularity for respective fantasy players may be awarded with one or more points . Further a score may comprise tallies of social media interaction e.g. a post tag like microblog text etc. related to the fantasy team. For example a scoring category may comprise a social media competition to determine a team which generates more social media attention e.g. during the period in which two or more teams are matched up . To this end the scoring competition may track a number of positive and or negative social media actions related to respective fantasy teams e.g. over the course of the matchup . In one embodiment the fantasy team drawing more positive social media action may be awarded with a point. In another embodiment the number of negative social media actions may be subtracted from the number of positive social media actions to determine a number for the social media competition for respective teams.

At in the example method a winning fantasy team and a losing fantasy team may be determined based on calculated scores e.g. the winning fantasy team winning more scoring categories and or more total points .

At in the example method winning and losing teams may be awarded winning and losing revenues e.g. or losses to respective fantasy payrolls. The example method ends at .

A monetary component may be configured to accept payments from fantasy team owners to fund the fantasy league. For example the monetary component may be configured to accept a base payment to fund a fantasy team with a basic fantasy payroll. Further the monetary component may be configured to accept additional payments to increase the fantasy payroll or invoke a fantasy equity line e.g. as described above . To this end an invoked fantasy equity line may charge a fantasy team with loan repayments and interest. In one embodiment monetary component may be configured to collect a payment from one or more fantasy team owners for trading a fantasy player. The monetary component may be also configured to award prizes e.g. for winning achievements etc. to fantasy team owners at an end of a fantasy season. For example awards may comprise additional fantasy payroll a reduction in fantasy equity line interest rate additional roster spots etc. Further achievements may comprise going on a fantasy win streak breaking a fantasy win streak of another fantasy team owner having a highest win to fantasy payroll ratio in the fantasy league having a best record in the fantasy league acquiring a fantasy player with a best performance to fantasy payroll ratio etc.

According to one aspect the monetary component may be configured to adjust a value e.g. stock value for a fantasy team based on fantasy players on the fantasy team e.g. changes to the fantasy team and or a starting lineup for the fantasy team management of the fantasy team e.g. a win loss record for the fantasy team or an outlook for the fantasy team e.g. owning future draft picks a prediction related to performance of the fantasy team . Further the value may fluctuate similar to stock values within a stock market. In one embodiment fantasy team owners may conduct transactions based on the adjusted value. That is for example a fantasy team owner could sell a fantasy team to another person based on the adjusted value for the fantasy team. It will be appreciated that monetary component may be configured to adjust the value for respective fantasy teams in real time. For example if a news flash announces that a star player is injured in real life the monetary component may adjust the value for the fantasy team owning the corresponding fantasy player in a corresponding fashion. In one embodiment the monetary component may be configured to collect a payment e.g. of real money from one or more fantasy teams involved in a trade of a fantasy player and or a fantasy pick. For example a fee associated with a trade may be based on a monetary value e.g. a higher ranked fantasy player may have a higher monetary value than a lower ranked fantasy player of a particular draft pick. To this end if a real player is injured a monetary value for a corresponding fantasy player may be adjusted. In one embodiment monetary component may manage an escalating revenue sharing system. For example income and or revenue of a league may be tracked and users may be awarded a percentage against a league fee. The award percentage may increase and or decrease over time based on factors disclosed herein e.g. fantasy stock value reality factors win loss records efficiency profitability etc. .

A fantasy payroll component may be configured to manage fantasy payrolls e.g. play money for respective fantasy teams and provide at least one of an available fantasy payroll and or a spent fantasy payroll for respective fantasy teams. In one embodiment the fantasy payroll component may be configured to add and or subtract revenue e.g. for participating in fantasy matchups to a fantasy payroll and subtract expenses e.g. player salaries bonuses etc. from the fantasy payroll on a periodic basis. In one embodiment the fantasy payroll component may be configured to deduct one or more fees from fantasy payrolls of one or more fantasy teams involved in a trade of a fantasy player and or a fantasy pick. The fantasy payroll component may be configured to manage salary caps for a fantasy league luxury taxes and or distribution of the luxury taxes for example. In one embodiment fantasy payroll component and or monetary component may penalize e.g. charge fantasy money and or real money and or require a fantasy team owner to spend above a minimum fantasy payroll amount e.g. a fantasy salary floor . The fantasy payroll component may further be configured to provide a fantasy equity line e.g. fantasy loans to fantasy team owners in exchange for repayment and interest.

A fantasy league component may be configured to schedule league play e.g. head to head matchups and or matches between fantasy teams and enable interaction between fantasy teams fantasy players and or the fantasy league. In one embodiment the fantasy league component may be coupled with a processing unit not shown . Further the fantasy league component may be configured to calculate scores for scheduled matches. According to one aspect the fantasy league component may be configured to calculate the scores based on statistics of fantasy players on respective fantasy teams. For example if a fantasy player is on a fantasy team and a real player corresponding to the fantasy player scores two touchdowns fantasy league component may be configured to award two corresponding touchdowns to the fantasy team. The fantasy league component may also be configured to determine a winning fantasy team and or a losing fantasy team based on the calculated scores.

A display may allow a user to interact with a user interface to manage a fantasy team. The user interface may be configured to allow the user to setup a lineup for a fantasy team for example. In one embodiment the user interface may be configured to enable the user to start bench add and or drop fantasy players on a fantasy team. The user interface will be described in further detail at least with regard to .

Social media component may be configured to facilitate social media interaction between at least one of the fantasy league fantasy team owner and fantasy team and various social media. Social media component may be configured to track social media actions e.g. likes posts microblogs texts messages emails etc. related to fantasy teams within a fantasy league and further identify a social media action as at least one of positive neutral and or negative for example. In one embodiment social media component may be configured to compare a volume of social media activity for one fantasy team with the volume of social media activity for another fantasy team and determine a winner for a social media scoring category in connection with the fantasy league component . In one embodiment social media component may generate revenue for a fantasy team owner based on the tracked social media action related to a fantasy team.

A reality factor database may be configured to access reality factor data related to a real player real team and or real league. The reality factor database will be described in further detail at lease with regard to .

A fantasy rule component of the example system may be configured to generate and or create fantasy rules based on application of reality factors from the reality factor database . It will be appreciated that the fantasy rule component may be configured to create fantasy rules by scaling reality factors to facilitate implementation in a fantasy league. Accordingly fantasy rules may not have a 1 1 correspondence with reality factors from which the fantasy rules are derived e.g. but may be configured to mimic a real league when possible .

An administrative component may be configured to enable an administrator to modify aspects related to a fantasy player fantasy team and or a fantasy league. For example the administrative component may be configured to enable an administrator to expand a roster size for the fantasy league from ten to twelve slots. In one embodiment the administrative component may be configured to allow the administrator to modify aspects related to fantasy matchups by changing scoring systems e.g. between category scoring and point total scoring . Further the administrative component may be operatively coupled to and have control over fantasy rule component fantasy payroll component and or monetary component for example. Therefore the administrative component may be configured to alter fantasy payrolls for fantasy teams create fantasy rules waive league fees etc. In one embodiment the administrative component may be configured to enable league approval of trades between fantasy teams e.g. by vote of fantasy teams not participating in the trades .

It will be appreciated that creating rules based upon reality factor s may provide at least a benefit of more closely emulating at least one of a real player real team real league and or relationships thereof upon application to a fantasy environment for example. Conventionally fantasy teams could hoard fantasy players without regard to reality factors such as salaries of players aspects of player contracts e.g. guaranteed money no trade clauses etc. league policies e.g. trading deadlines trade protocol salary caps and or luxury taxes and or cash flow e.g. equity lines and or interest rates . To this end aspects related to reality factors are believed to facilitate a closer simulation of reality e.g. a real team may not afford a roster of top players thus reflected by reality factors thereby affording a fantasy team owner a more realistic management experience. Further creating fantasy rules based upon reality factors provide a benefit of creating an unknown variable related to a fantasy player s cost e.g. in terms of fantasy payroll thereby rewarding fantasy team owners who select profitable draft picks. Accordingly these unknowns may challenge fantasy team owners to not only select fantasy players based on production but also to closely emulate good decision making e.g. draft a player as a package rather than solely on one aspect such as production similar to that of a real general manager.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processing unit a processing unit an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in respective embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

