---

title: Detecting and reporting improper activity involving a vehicle
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for detecting and reporting improper activity, such a traffic violation. In one embodiment, a computing device receives multiple image frames from a client device. The computing device detects that a vehicle shown in at least one of the image frames is in violation of a rule. The computing device generates an evidence package based on at least one of the image frames. The computing device transmits the evidence to an evidence review device for review by an enforcement individual.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495601&OS=09495601&RS=09495601
owner: Mirsani, LLC
number: 09495601
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140227
---
This application claims priority to U.S. provisional application entitled CROWD SOURCING OF DRIVER VIOLATIONS having Ser. No. 61 913 742 and filed Dec. 9 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

To facilitate the safe and orderly operation of vehicles on roadways traffic laws have been adopted. A law enforcement officer may personally witness a driver violating a traffic law and issue a citation to the driver. The citation may result in a fine or jail time for the driver.

The present disclosure describes various systems and methods for detecting and reporting improper activity involving one or more vehicles. As a non limiting example a user may position a mobile computing device on the dash of his or her vehicle. While the user is driving the mobile computing device may collect image frames of other vehicles. The mobile computing device may perform image processing operations on the image frames to determine whether one or more of the other vehicles has performed an improper activity such a violation of a traffic law. In alternative embodiments the user may indicate that improper activity has occurred by selecting a button speaking a voice command making a hand gesture or by providing some other type of indication. In response to detecting improper activity or receiving an indication of improper activity from the user the mobile computing device may transmit at least a subset of the image frames and potentially other data to an evidence processing system.

The evidence processing system may receive the image frames and detect whether one or more of the image frames shows improper activity. In alternative embodiments the evidence processing system may provide the image frames for manual review by a trained technician. If the evidence processing system detects that improper activity has occurred or if the trained technician indicates that improper activity has occurred the evidence processing system may generate an evidence package and transmit the evidence package to a device operated by an enforcement individual such as a law enforcement officer.

The enforcement individual may decide whether to issue a citation to the owner of the vehicle shown in the image frames based on information in the evidence package. If the citation is issued and a monetary fine for the citation is paid the evidence processing system may provide a promotional benefit such as a monetary or non monetary reward to the user associated with the mobile computing device that captured the image frames showing the improper activity. Thus various embodiments of the present disclosure may increase the amount of improper activity such as traffic violations that are detected and prosecuted. Additionally users may be provided an incentive to use their mobile devices for monitoring.

In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment shown in includes a computing environment a user device an evidence review device a vehicle records device a payment device and or other devices in data communication via a network . The network may include for example the Internet one or more intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks telephone networks satellite networks other suitable networks and or any combination of two or more such networks.

The computing environment may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively the computing environment may include multiple computing devices that are arranged for example in one or more server banks computer banks or other types of arrangements. For example a plurality of computing devices together may form a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations.

Various systems and functionality may be executed in the computing environment . For example the computing environment may provide and execute an evidence processing system and or other types of systems and or functionality. The evidence processing system may receive data and detect whether the data indicates that improper activity has occurred. The improper activity may or may not be civil and or criminal activity such as a traffic violation. As non limiting examples the improper activity may be improperly turning at an intersection improperly changing a lane entering an intersection while a stop light is active turning or changing a lane without activating a turn signal littering colliding with an object parking in an unauthorized area and or committing any other type of improper activity.

The evidence processing system may also generate evidence packages . An evidence package may include data such as one or more image frames audio data and or other collected information that may be transmitted to the evidence review device and rendered for an enforcement individual such as a law enforcement officer. The enforcement individual may determine whether to issue a citation on the basis of the content in the evidence package . In some embodiments the evidence package may purposefully lack data that can identify the user who collected the data used to generate the evidence package .

Various data is stored in one or more data stores that are accessible to the computing environment . The data store may include user data one or more rules evidence data violator data and or other data. The user data may represent the users who are registered with the evidence processing system . For example users may provide information regarding themselves when registering to participate with the evidence processing system and the evidence processing system may store this information as user data .

Additionally the evidence processing system may generate data for a user based on his or her activities with the computing environment . In some embodiments the evidence processing system may generate credibility scores for the users. A credibility score may be a value that represents how likely data provided by a particular user will result in a valid citation being issued. For example a user that provided data that resulted in citations 90 of the time may have a higher credibility score than a user who provided data that resulted in citations 10 of the time. The evidence processing system may consider the credibility score in order to prioritize the processing of data. For instance data from a user with a high credibility score may be given relatively high priority in a processing queue while data from a user with a low credibility score may be discarded or assigned a lower priority in the processing queue.

The evidence processing system may apply one or more rules to determine whether improper activity has occurred. Some rules may be generated in response to data as it is being processed as will be described in further detail below. Other rules may be predetermined .

The user device is representative of multiple client computing devices that may be coupled to the network and operated by users who in some embodiments have registered to participate with the evidence processing system . The user device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a mobile device such as a cellular telephone a music player a tablet computer system a web pad a wearable computing device a personal digital assistant a laptop computer or any type of mobile device. Alternatively the user device may be embodied in the form of a stationary computing device such as a desktop computer a security system for a building or any other type of stationary computing device.

The user device may execute a user device application and or other types of applications. The user device application may be executed to capture data and to detect whether the captured data indicates that improper activity has occurred. To this end the user device application may apply the same or similar rules that are applied by the evidence processing system . Because the user device may have a slower processing speed and less memory than that which is available to the computing environment the data processing by the user device application may be less rigorous than the data processing by the computing environment . Additionally or alternatively the user device application may be configured to receive a user input that indicates that the user believes that an improper activity has occurred. Such an input may be for example a button being selected a voice command a gesture by the user and or any other type of input.

The user device may be in communication with one or more image capture devices one or more sensors a user device display and or other types of components. The image capture device is configured to receive light which is then converted into image frames. In some embodiments the image frames may form a video sequence.

The sensors may include for example a global positioning system GPS receiver an accelerometer a microphone and or any other type of component to that may provide data. The microphone may be used by the user device application to detect improper activity. For example a user may speak a voice command that is received by the microphone and recognized by the user device application as an indication that improper activity has occurred. As another example the microphone may capture the sound of screeching tires or breaking glass which may be recognized by the user device application as an indication that improper activity has occurred.

The GPS receiver may receive GPS satellite signals and provide location data that represents the geographic location of the user device . This location data may be transmitted to the evidence processing system so that the geographical location where improper activity occurred may be identified.

The user device display may comprise one or more liquid crystal displays LCDs cathode ray tube CRT displays plasma displays and or any other type of display that provides visual renderings of data. For example the user device display may render one or more user interfaces that facilitate a user interacting with and controlling the user device .

The evidence review device is representative of multiple client computing devices that may be coupled to the network and that may be operated by enforcement individuals such as law enforcement officers. The evidence review device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a table computer system a web pad a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant or any type of suitable device.

The evidence review device may be coupled to an evidence review device display and or other types of components. The evidence review device display may comprise one or more liquid crystal displays LCDs cathode ray tube CRT displays plasma displays and or any other type of display that provides visual renderings of data. For example the evidence review device display may render one or more user interfaces that facilitate an enforcement individual interacting with and controlling the evidence review device .

The evidence review device may execute an evidence review application and or other types of applications. The evidence review application may receive an evidence package and render data for presentation on the evidence review device display . The evidence review application may also receive input data that indicates whether an enforcement individual has determined to issue one or more citations as a result of the content in the evidence package .

The vehicle records device may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. In some embodiments the vehicle records device may include multiple computing devices that are arranged in one or more server banks computer banks or other types of arrangements. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. The vehicle records device may be operated by a government agency such as a Department of Motor Vehicles. Alternatively the vehicle records device may be operated by a private entity that has collection information for vehicles. Alternatively the vehicle records device may store data transferred from other databases such as a database from a Department of Motor Vehicles.

The vehicle records device may include one or more vehicle records data stores . The vehicle records data stores may include vehicle data that represents various information regarding vehicles. For example each entry of vehicle data may include a vehicle identifier owner data characteristics and or other types of data.

The vehicle identifier may be used to identify a particular vehicle among other vehicles. In some embodiments the vehicle identifier may represent the characters shown on a license plate. The owner data may identify the owner or entity that owns a particular vehicle. The owner data may include for example the name and address of the owner. The characteristics may identify various features of a particular vehicle. For example the characteristics may represent the make and or model of a vehicle the color of the vehicle and or any other information regarding the vehicle.

The payment device is representative of multiple client computing devices that may be coupled to the network and operated by users who have received citations and or are paying fines for improper activities. The payment device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a cellular telephone a tablet computer system a web pad a personal digital assistant a payment instrument reader e.g. a credit card reader and or any other type of suitable device. The payment device may be configured to receive payment information and or initiate the transfer of money from an account associated with a user who received a citation to an account associated with the evidence processing system .

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin a user may register to participate with the evidence processing system and install the user device application on his or her user device . After the user device application has been installed on the user device the user device application may be executed.

The user may position the user device in a way that facilitates the collection of data using the image capture device and or one or more of the sensors . In one embodiment the user device may be mounted on the dash of a vehicle so that other vehicles may be within the field of view of the image capture device while the user is driving. For example the user device may be positioned so that vehicles that are in front of the vehicle of the user may be within the field of view of the image capture device . As another example the user may for example sit at a bus stop and hold the user device so that the intersection of two or more roads is within the field of view of the image capture device . As another example a user may temporarily leave the user device at a location to autonomously collect data even in his or her absence.

The user device application may then collect data such as image frames location data accelerometer data sound and or other types of information using the image capture device and or the sensors . Since the collected data may be used to issue a citation or even pursue a criminal charge the user device application may store the collected data in a memory to which the user is restricted access. For example the collected data may be stored in random access memory RAM to which the user is restricted from access. In this way the user device application may prevent the user from altering the collected data. In some embodiments the user device application may use a cyclic buffer in which newly collected data is written over the oldest collected data.

While data is being collected the user device application may detect that improper activity has occurred in various ways. In one embodiment the user of the user device may provide an input to indicate that an improper activity has occurred. For example the user may select a button speak a voice command or make a hand gesture that the user device application recognizes as an indication that improper activity has occurred.

Additionally the user device application may detect whether the data generated by the image capture device indicates that an improper activity has occurred. To this end the user device application may apply one or more rules that were predefined or that are generated in response to the data that was collected by the user device application .

As a non limiting example a predefined rule may specify that an improper activity has occurred if image frames show the vehicle crossing two lane divider markings within a predetermined amount of time. Such a rule may be used to detect vehicle making an improper lane change. To apply this rule the user device application may identify a vehicle shown in one or more image frames that have been generated by the image capture device . The user device application may also identify two lane divider markings which define a travel lane. If the image frames show the vehicle crossing both lane divider markings within a predetermined amount of time the user device application determines that the rule has been violated and that improper activity has occurred.

As a non limiting example of a rule that is generated in response to data that has been collected the user device application may detect a traffic sign shown in one or more image frames that are generated by the image capture device . Using optical character recognition the user device application may determine that the traffic sign indicates that vehicles are prohibited from turning right while a stop light is active. Accordingly the user device application may generate a rule specifying that improper activity has occurred if one or more image frames shows a vehicle turning right while the stop light is active. To apply this rule the user device application may identify a stop light in one or more of the image frames and detect whether the stop light is illuminated red. If so the user device application may identify a vehicle shown in one or more of the image frames and detect whether the vehicle is shown moving across an intersection threshold shown in one or more of the image frames. If so the evidence processing system determines that the rule has been violated and that improper activity has occurred.

Additionally data collected from one or more sensors may be used to detect whether an improper activity has occurred. For example the sound of breaking glass or screeching tires collected by the microphone may indicate to the user device application that improper activity has occurred. As another non limiting example the user device application may detect that improper activity has occurred if accelerometer data indicates that the user device has experienced an acceleration that is greater than a predefined amount. An acceleration of a relatively large amount may indicate that the vehicle in which the user device was mounted has been involved in a collision with another object or has performed an evasive maneuver to avoid colliding with another object.

Upon detecting that an improper activity has occurred the user device application may initiate various actions. For example the user device application may prevent at least a portion of the data collected prior to the time when the improper activity was detected from being discarded. Additionally the user device application may continue to collect data subsequent to the time when the improper activity was detected.

The user device may transmit at least a portion of the data collected prior to and subsequent to the time when the improper activity was detected. Additionally the user device may transmit information such as the identity of the user of the user device the time when the improper activity was detected the location of the user device when the improper activity was detected and or any other information that may be useful for the evidence processing system . In some embodiments the user device application may wait to transmit the data to the evidence processing system until the user device application has joined a particular type of network such as a local area network. By waiting to transmit the data until connected to such a network the user device application may avoid transmitting data using a cellular data network that may be relatively expensive and or have relatively low bandwidth for the user device .

The user device application may provide an authentication mechanism for at least a portion of the data that is transmitted to the evidence processing system . For example the user device application may apply a hash function to at least a portion of the collected data. The hash value that is output when the hash function is applied may be transmitted to the evidence processing system and used by the evidence processing system to detect whether the collected data has been tampered with or manipulated as will be described below. The user device application may also encrypt at least a portion of the data that is transmitted to the evidence processing system . Encrypting the data may prevent unauthorized devices from accessing the content that is transmitted by the user device .

In some embodiments the user device application may also transmit to other user devices a notification that an improper activity has been detected. The location of the user device when the improper activity was detected may also be transmitted in conjunction with the notification. Other user devices that receive the notification may compare their own locations to the location where the user device detected the improper activity. User devices that are within a predetermined distance from the improper activity may transmit data that they have been collecting to the evidence processing system . Since the data provided by multiple user devices may include image frames or other data showing an improper activity from different viewpoints the evidence processing system may use this data to obtain more information regarding the improper activity.

After the evidence processing system receives collected data from the user device the evidence processing system may begin processing the data. First the evidence processing system may decrypt the data using the appropriate key. If the user device application provided a hash value with the data the evidence processing system may apply the hash function to at least a portion of the received data. If the hash value that results from the hash function matches the hash value that was provided by the user device application the evidence processing system may determine that the received data has not been tampered with or manipulated. If the hash values do not match the evidence processing system may determine that the received data has been manipulated and is not suitable for further processing. The evidence processing system may discard the data and reduce the credibility score of the user that provided the data if the evidence processing system determines that the data has been manipulated.

After the data has been decrypted and authenticated the evidence processing system may initiate the process of detecting whether the data collected by the user device shows that an improper activity occurred. In some embodiments the evidence processing system may render the collected data for manual review by one or more trained technicians. For example the evidence processing system may render audio video images and or any other content that was provided by the user device . If a technician believes that the rendered content shows that an improper activity has occurred the technician may provide an input for the evidence processing system to signal that the improper activity has occurred. The technician may also specify the type of improper activity one or more reasons why the technician believes that improper activity has occurred and or other information. For embodiments in which a technician provides reasons why the improper activity is believed to have occurred the evidence processing system may use this information to learn how to detect improper activity in the future. For example a technician may specify that an improper activity occurred because image frames show a vehicle turning without activating a turn signal. Using this information the evidence processing system may then automatically detect that an improper activity has occurred if image frames show a vehicle turning without activating a turn signal. Thus one or more technicians can train the evidence processing system to automatically detect one or more improper activities.

In various embodiments the evidence processing system may process and automatically detect whether the data collected by the user device application indicates that an improper activity occurred. To this end the evidence processing system may perform image processing operations on the collected image frames and apply one or more rules that are predefined and or generated in response to the data that is being processed by the evidence processing system . Because the computing resources such as processor speed and memory that are available to the computing environment may be greater than the computing resources in the user device the data processing performed by the evidence processing system may be more intensive and thorough than the data processing performed by the user device application .

As a non limiting example a predefined rule may specify that an improper activity has occurred if image frames show a vehicle crossing two lane divider markings within a predetermined amount of time. To apply this rule the evidence processing system may identify a vehicle shown in one or more image frames in the data provided by the user device . The evidence processing system may also identify two lane divider markings which define a travel lane. If the image frames show the vehicle crossing both lane divider markings within a predetermined amount of time the evidence processing system determines that the predefined rule has been violated and that improper activity has occurred.

As a non limiting example of the evidence processing system generating a rule the evidence processing system may detect a sign shown in one or more images. Using optical character recognition the evidence processing system may read the characters on the sign and determine that the sign indicates that a right turn is prohibited while a stop light is active. As a result the evidence processing system may generate a rule specifying that improper activity has occurred if one or more image frames shows a vehicle turning right while the stop light is active. To apply this rule the evidence processing system may then identify a stop light in one or more of the image frames and detect whether the stop light is illuminated red. Additionally the evidence processing system may detect a vehicle shown in one or more of the image frames and detect whether the vehicle is shown moving across an intersection threshold shown in one or more of the image frames. If so the evidence processing system determines that this rule has been violated and that improper activity has occurred.

When an improper activity has been detected by the evidence processing system the image frames and or other data associated with the improper activity may be rendered for further review by one or more trained technicians. The one or more trained technicians may provide an additional level of review and verification before an evidence package is generated and or transmitted to the evidence review device . Additionally the trained technician may provide input indicating whether the evidence processing system correctly identified an improper activity. If a trained technician determines that an improper activity was correctly identified by the evidence processing system the one or more rules and or algorithms used to detect the improper activity may be validated and used again in subsequent processing. Alternatively if a trained technician determines that the evidence processing system incorrectly identified an activity as improper or if the evidence processing system failed to detect an improper activity the rules and or algorithms used may be refined or discarded. In this way the evidence processing system may learn to accurately detect improper activities.

When an improper activity has been detected the associated data may be subjected to subsequent levels of processing by the evidence processing system and or review by one or more trained technicians. Each subsequent level may subject the data to higher lever of scrutiny by the evidence processing system and or a trained technician. For example a subsequent level of processing may involve more sophisticate rules and or processing algorithms that a previous level of processing. In this way it may be less likely for improper activity that was incorrectly detected to result in an evidence package being generated.

After an improper activity has been detected the evidence processing system may obtain information regarding the vehicle shown in one or more of the image frames that was provided by the user device . To this end the evidence processing system may use optical character recognition to identify the characters on the license plate of the vehicle shown in one or more of the image frames. Alternatively a technician may manually identify and enter the license plate characters into the evidence processing system .

The evidence processing system may then transmit a request to the vehicle records device for information regarding the vehicle that corresponds to identified characters on the license plate. The vehicle records device may use an Application Programming Interface API to facilitate the evidence processing system transmitting the request and receiving the corresponding data. Upon receiving the request from the evidence processing system the vehicle records device may search the vehicle records data store for vehicle data corresponding to the vehicle identifier that matches the characters provided in the request. If the requested vehicle data is found by the vehicle records device the vehicle data may be transmitted to the evidence processing system .

Upon receiving the requested vehicle data from the vehicle records device the evidence processing system may compare the received vehicle data to the vehicle shown in the image frames that were provided by the user device . For example if the characteristics represented in the vehicle data indicate that the vehicle is a particular make model year color etc. the evidence processing system may determine whether the vehicle shown in the image frames has the same features.

If the features of the vehicle shown in the image frames match the characteristics represented in the vehicle data the evidence processing system may generate an evidence package . In one embodiment the evidence package is a data package that is configured to be rendered in interactive user interface. For example the interactive user interface may facilitate an enforcement individual reviewing several image frames and then selecting a subset of the image frames for inclusion with a citation. In alternative embodiments the evidence processing system may be an electronic document such as a Portable Document Format PDF file that is configured to be rendered on the evidence review device . In other embodiments the evidence processing system may cause a paper version of the evidence package to be printed and provided to an enforcement individual for review. In some embodiments the evidence processing system may also select and include in the evidence package one or more image frames that best show the improper activity.

If the evidence package comprises an electronic document or a data package the evidence package is transmitted to the evidence review device which may be operated by an enforcement individual such as a law enforcement officer. The evidence review application may render the evidence package on the evidence review device display . In some embodiments the evidence review application may facilitate the enforcement individual viewing several image frames collected by the user device . If the enforcement individual determines to issue a citation based on the evidence package the enforcement individual may select one or more of the image frames for inclusion with the citation. In one embodiment two image frames may be selected for inclusion with the citation.

The evidence review application may also facilitate the enforcement individual generating the citation. For example the evidence review application may provide a button that the enforcement individual may select to indicate that the citation is to be issued and to provide an electronic signature of the enforcement individual on appropriate documents. The evidence review application may automatically complete data fields of the citation using the vehicle data obtained by the evidence processing system the data provided by the user device and or other information. For example data fields regarding the model of the vehicle the owner of the vehicle the time of the improper activity the location of the improper activity and or any other data field of citation may be automatically completed using information that has been obtained by the evidence processing system . The evidence review application may also facilitate the enforcement individual completing and or modifying the data fields. After the data fields for the citation have been completed the evidence review application may cause a paper citation to be printed and mailed to the individual represented by the owner data . Alternatively an electronic citation may be transmitted to the individual.

The evidence review application may transmit to the evidence processing system data representing whether the enforcement individual issued the citation. The evidence processing system may update the credibility score of the user associated with the user device that provided the collected data based on whether a citation was issued. For example the credibility score may be raised if a citation was issued or the credibility score may be lowered if the evidence package did not result in a citation being issued. Additionally the evidence processing system may apply machine learning techniques to improve the rules and or image processing algorithms based on whether a citation was issued.

If a citation was issued the individual may pay a monetary fine. If a fine is paid a payment processing device may transmit to the evidence processing system a notification that the monetary fine was paid. Upon receiving the notification the evidence processing system may initiate the transfer of a promotional benefit to the user associated with the user device that provided the data used to issue the citation. For example evidence processing system may initiate the transfer of money to an account associated with the user. In some embodiments the amount of money that is transferred may be a predefined percentage of the monetary fine that was paid.

With reference to shown is a drawing of an example of a user interface that may be generated by the user device application and rendered for display in the user device display . For the embodiment shown in the user device has been mounted on the dash of a vehicle and positioned so that the image capture device generated image frames showing another vehicle that is in front of the vehicle of the user.

The user interface includes a rendering of an image frame that was generated by the image capture device . The image frame shows the vehicle an intersection threshold a traffic sign and a traffic light . Additionally a violation notification has been rendered in the user interface . In some embodiments an audio notification may be generated to indicate that an improper activity has been detected. In the example shown the user device application has detected the traffic sign and applied optical character recognition to learn that the traffic sign indicates that the vehicle is prohibited from turning right. As such the user device application has generated a rule specifying that an improper activity has occurred if the vehicle crosses the intersection threshold while the traffic light is illuminated red.

When applying this rule the user device application has detected that the traffic light is illuminated red. Additionally the user device application has detected that the vehicle has crossed the intersection threshold . As such the user device application has determined that the rule has been violated. Thus the user device application has detected an improper activity. In response to the improper activity being detected the violation notification has been generated and rendered in the user interface to notify the user that an improper activity has been detected.

With reference to shown is an example of an enforcement individual user interface that may be generated by the evidence review application and rendered in the evidence review device display . It is noted that one or more of the elements shown in the enforcement individual user interface may be omitted in some embodiments. Additionally some embodiments may purposefully lack renderings of personally identifiable information.

The enforcement individual user interface shown in includes renderings of a first image frame a second image frame and an enlargement of a license plate . The renderings of the first image frame and the second image frame show the vehicle at two points in time. In particular the first image frame shows the vehicle prior to when the detected improper activity occurs. Additionally the vehicle is easily identifiable in the first image frame . The second image frame shows the vehicle when the detected improper activity is occurring. The enlargement of the license plate may facilitate an individual identifying the characters in the license plate of the vehicle .

Associated with the first image frame and the second image frame are first control buttons and second control buttons respectively. The first control buttons may facilitate an enforcement individual such as a law enforcement officer selecting one of multiple image frames to be rendered as the first image frame . Additionally the first control buttons may facilitate the enforcement individual causing the first image frame to be zoomed in or zoomed out when rendered. Alternative embodiments may include additionally functionality such as zoom to selected area functionality scroll functionality multi gesture zoom functionality and or other functionality. The functionality may be controlled by using touch screen controls and or any other suitable type of interface.

Similarly the second control buttons may facilitate the enforcement individual selecting one of multiple image frames to be rendered as the second image frame . Additionally the second control buttons may facilitate the enforcement individual causing the second image frame to be zoomed in or zoomed out when rendered.

The user interface in the embodiment shown in also includes a vehicle information region and a detected information region . The vehicle information region may include renderings of at least a portion of the vehicle data that the evidence processing system obtained from the vehicle records device . For example the vehicle information region may show renderings of the vehicle identifier for the vehicle the make of the vehicle the model of the vehicle the color of the vehicle and or other characteristics of the vehicle . Additionally the vehicle information region may include a rendering of the owner data such as the identity of the owner of the vehicle and corresponding contact information.

The detected information region may include renderings of information that the evidence processing system detected from the collected data that was provided by the user device . For example detected features of the vehicle such as the make model and or color of the vehicle may be shown in the detected information region . In one embodiment the user interface includes an indicator not shown that notifies the enforcement individual if data in the detected information region matches data in the vehicle information region . Additionally the time of the improper activity and location where the improper activity occurred may be shown in the detected information region . The detected information region may also show the type of detection mechanism that was used by the user device application and or the evidence processing system to detect the improper activity. In the embodiment shown in the detected information region indicates that an image processing algorithm was used to detect the improper activity. In alternative embodiments the detected information region may show that a user indicated that the improper activity occurred by for example selecting a button speaking a voice command and or providing any other type of input.

An edit button is associated with the detected information region in the user interface shown in . An enforcement individual may select the edit button and edit one or more data fields in the detected information region . For example the enforcement individual may correct information in the data field that indicates the detected color of the vehicle .

If the enforcement individual determines not to issue a citation the enforcement individual may select the no violation button provided in the user interface . In response to the no violation button being selected the evidence review application may discard the evidence package that was received. In addition the evidence review application may provide to the evidence processing system a notification that a citation was not issued. The evidence processing system may update the credibility score for the corresponding user data and or update the algorithms and or rules that were used to generate the evidence package .

If the enforcement individual determines to issue a citation the enforcement individual may select the issue citation button . In response to the issue citation button being selected the evidence review application may cause a paper citation to be printed and sent to an individual such as the owner of the vehicle identified using the vehicle data from the vehicle records device . Alternatively the evidence review application may transmit an electronic citation to the individual. In addition the evidence review application may provide to the evidence processing system a notification that the citation was issued. The evidence processing system may update the credibility score for the corresponding user and or update the algorithms and or rules that were used to generate the evidence package .

With reference to shown is a drawing representing an example of image frames that may be generated and selectively transmitted by the user device . The top row of blocks represent image frames referred to hereinafter as generated image frames that are generated by the image capture device from time tto time tand provided to the user device application . The bottom row of blocks represent the subset of the generated image frames referred to hereinafter as transmitted image frames that may be transmitted from the user device to the evidence processing system . The quantity of blocks shown for a given length of time represents a relative frame rate for the generated image frames and the transmitted image frames .

The image capture device may capture and or provide the generated image frames at a particular frame rate. For example the generated image frames may be captured and or provided at N frames per second where N is a predefined number. The user device application may store the generated image frames in a cyclic buffer that is initially empty. Newly generated image frames are added and old generated image frames may be removed. In one embodiment the generated image frames are added and deleted as described with respect to .

Because it may be inefficient to transmit all of the generated image frames to the evidence processing system through the network various embodiments of the present disclosure transmit a selected portion of the generated image frames based on the time when the improper activity was detected. In the time trepresents the point in time when an improper activity was detected. The times t trepresent points in time that occurred prior to time t and the times t trepresent points in time that occurred after time t.

Because the time window between time tand time tmay include a relatively high amount of information relevant to the detected improper activity the user device application may select all of the generated image frames to be transmitted to the evidence processing system . As such the frame rate of the transmitted image frames within the time window from time tto time tmay be the same frame rate N at which the generated image frames were captured and or provided. Since the points in time that are relatively far from the time tmay be less likely to include information relevant to the detected improper activity the user device application may select fewer of those generated image frames to be transmitted to the evidence processing system . Thus in the embodiment represented in the transmitted image frames from time window from time tto time thave a lower frame rate than the frame rate of the transmitted image frames from the time window from time tto time t. Additionally the transmitted image frames from time window from time tto time thave a lower frame rate than the frame rate of the transmitted image frames from the time window from time tto time t. Similarly the transmitted image frames from time window from time tto time thave a lower frame rate than the frame rate of the transmitted image frames from the time window from time tto time t and the transmitted image frames from time window from time tto time thave a lower frame rate than the frame rate of the transmitted image frames from the time window from time tto time t. Thus the generated image frames that may eventually be transmitted as transmitted image frames may be selectively reduced as compared to embodiments in which all of the generated image frames are transmitted as transmitted image frames .

With reference to shown is a flowchart that represents an example of the operation of a portion of the user device application according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the user device application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the user device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the user device application collects image frames provided by the image capture device and or sensor data provided by one or more sensors such as remotely generated GPS location data and or other data. At box the user device application detects whether an improper activity has occurred. In some embodiments user input such as a button selection or voice command may indicate that improper activity has occurred. In other embodiments the user device application may apply one or more rules to the image frames and or sensor data that is being collected in order to automatically detect an improper activity as discussed above.

If improper activity is not detected the user device application returns to box and the process is repeated as shown. Otherwise if an improper activity is detected the user device application moves from box to box and selects at least a subset of the image frames and sensor data that was collected. A hash function is then applied to the selected image frames and or sensor data in box . As discussed above the hash function may be used as an authentication mechanism for the data that is provided to the evidence processing system . Additionally at box the selected image frames and or sensor data is encrypted.

The user device application then moves to box and transmits the encrypted image frames sensor data and hash value to the evidence processing system . Thereafter the process ends.

With reference to shown is a flowchart that represents an example of the operation of a portion of the evidence processing system according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the evidence processing system as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing environment according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the evidence processing system obtains the image frames sensor data hash value and or other information from the user device . In box the image frames and sensor data are decrypted. The evidence processing system then applies the hash function to the image frames and sensor data as shown in box . At box the resulting hash value is compared to the hash value that was provided by the user device to authenticate the data. If the hash values do not match at box the evidence processing system moves to box and generates an error message and the data received from the user device may be discarded. In some embodiments a credibility score for the user associated with the user device is lowered as a result of the hash values being different.

If the hash values match the evidence processing system moves from box to box and performs image processing on the image frames. To this end the evidence processing system may apply one or more rules as discussed above. If no improper activity is detected at box the process ends. In some embodiments the credibility score of the user associated with the user device may be reduced. Otherwise if improper activity is detected the evidence processing system moves from box to box .

At box the evidence processing system analyzes the image frames and detects the license plate characters and vehicle features that are shown in one or more of the image frames. The evidence processing system then moves to box and obtains from the vehicle records device the vehicle data that corresponds to the license plate characters. As shown at box the evidence processing system then compares the vehicle data to the vehicle features that were detected. For example the evidence processing system may detect whether the make model color etc. of the vehicle represented in the vehicle data matches the make model color etc. of that was detected in the image frames.

At box the evidence processing system determines whether the vehicle data matches the detected vehicle features. If the vehicle data does not closely match the detected vehicle features the evidence processing system moves to box generates an error message and the process ends or further review is prompted. The error message may prompt a technician to perform a manual review of the image frames and or other data.

If the vehicle data matches the detected vehicle features the evidence processing system moves from box to box and generates an evidence package . The evidence package may include one or more image frames audio data at least a portion of the vehicle data and or other information. In some embodiments the evidence package lacks data that identifies the user associated with the user device .

As shown in box the evidence package is then transmitted to the evidence review device for review by an enforcement individual. Thereafter the process ends.

With reference to shown is a flowchart that represents an example of the operation of a portion of the evidence review application according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the evidence review application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the evidence review device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning at box the evidence review application receives the evidence package from the evidence processing system . The evidence package is then rendered for display on the evidence review device display as shown at box . As shown at box the evidence review application obtains input data indicating whether the enforcement individual issued the citation. In one embodiment this input data may generated in response to the enforcement individual selecting the issue citation button of the user interface . The evidence review application then moves to box and transmits to the evidence processing system a notification whether the citation was issued. Thereafter the process ends.

With reference to shown is a flowchart that represents an example of the operation of a portion of the payment device according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the payment device as described herein. The flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the payment device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning at box the payment device obtains user input that identifies a citation. For example a user such as the owner of a vehicle shown in one or more image frames may be provided with a physical or electronic citation and the user may input a citation identifier that is shown on the citation. At box the payment device obtains citation data that corresponds to the citation that was identified at box . The citation data may be obtained from the evidence processing system the evidence review device the vehicle records device and or any other device that has stored information regarding the identified citation. The citation data that is obtained may identify the amount of the fine that is owed due to the citation.

As shown at box the payment device then obtains payment information from the user. In some embodiments the user may provide an account number and or verification information. In other embodiments the user may provide a username and password to sign into a payment service. After the payment information has been obtained the payment device initiates the transfer of funds for the amount of the fine that is owed due to the citation. The payment device then moves to box and transmits a notification to the evidence processing system that the fine has been paid. Thereafter the process ends.

With reference to shown is a flowchart that represents an example of the operation of another portion of the evidence processing system according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the evidence processing system as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing environment according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning at box the evidence processing system receives a notification that a fine was paid for a citation. In some embodiments the notification may be provided by a computing device that is operated in association with a traffic court or other governmental entity. At box the evidence processing system identifies the one or more users who provided the collected data that was used to generate the evidence package that led to the citation being issued. The evidence processing system then initiates the transfer of a promotional benefit to the one or more identified uses as shown at box . For example the promotional benefit may be a monetary award and the evidence processing system may initiate a payment transfer to an account associated with a user. If multiple users provided data that was used in the evidence package the promotional benefit may be divided in various ways. For example each user who provided the data may receive a pro rata portion of a predefined percentage of the fine that was paid. In other embodiments the user who first provided the data may be provided the entire promotional benefit. Thereafter the process ends.

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing environment according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing environment shown includes one or more computing devices . Each computing device includes at least one processor circuit that may include one or more processors and one or more memories both of which are coupled to a local interface . As such each computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or any other bus structure.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor is the evidence processing system and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be the data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the user device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The user device shown includes at least one processor circuit that may include one or more processors and one or more memories both of which are coupled to a local interface . One or more image capture devices sensors and or user device displays may be coupled to the local interface . The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or any other bus structure.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor is the user device application and potentially other applications. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memories and and are executable by the processors and respectively as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components may be stored in the memories and and be executable by the processors and respectively. In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by one or more of the processor and . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that may be loaded into a random access portion of one or more of the memories and and run by one or more of the processors and source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the one or more of the memories and and executed by one or more of the processors and or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of one or more of the memories and to be executed by one or more of the processors and etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of one or more of the memories and including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard drive a solid state drive a USB flash drive a memory card an optical disc a floppy disk a magnetic tape or any other suitable type of memory.

The memories and may include both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memories and may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard disk drive a solid state drive a USB flash drive a memory card accessed via a memory card reader a floppy disk accessed via a floppy disk drive an optical disc accessed via an optical disc drive a magnetic tape accessed via a tape drive another memory component or any combination of two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such components. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory component.

Also each of the processors and may represent multiple processors and or multiple processor cores and each of the memories and may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case each of the local interfaces and may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the respective multiple processors and between any processor and and any of the respective memories and or between any two of the respective memories and etc. The each of local interfaces and may comprise additional systems such as a load balancing system designed to coordinate this communication. The processors and may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the evidence processing system the user device application the evidence review application and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above the same may be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each application or system can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits ASICs having appropriate logic gates field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts of show the functionality and operation of portions of the evidence processing system the user device application and the evidence review application respectively. If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as one or more of the processors and in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowcharts of show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more boxes may be switched relative to the order shown. Also two or more boxes shown in succession in flowcharts of may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the boxes shown in flowcharts of may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the evidence processing system the user device application and the evidence review application that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example one or more of the processors and in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

Further any logic or application described herein including the evidence processing system the user device application and the evidence review application may be implemented and structured in a variety of ways. For example one or more applications described may be implemented as modules or components of a single application. Further one or more applications described herein may be executed in shared or separate devices or a combination thereof. For example a plurality of the applications described herein may execute in the same computing device or in multiple computing devices in the same computing environment . Additionally it is understood that terms such as application service system engine module and so on may be interchangeable and are not intended to be limiting.

Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y or at least one of Z to each be present.

It is emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

