---

title: Techniques for secure browsing
abstract: Techniques for secure browsing may be realized as a method including: in response to a non-browser instruction to resolve a first resource reference, submitting the first resource reference to a server; receiving a response from the server indicating approval of the first resource reference; directing the first resource reference to a browser application based on the approval response; in response to a non-browser instruction to resolve a second resource reference, submitting the second resource reference to the server; receiving a response from the server indicating disapproval of the second resource reference; and determining not to direct the second resource reference to a browser application based on the disapproval response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09231913&OS=09231913&RS=09231913
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 09231913
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140225
---
The present disclosure relates generally to browsing networks and more particularly to techniques for secure browsing.

Internet browsing has increasingly become a standard part of the use of mobile computing devices and correspondingly uniform resource locator URL addresses are often provided to a mobile device in many different ways from short message service SMS messages to links within mobile applications. Furthermore mobile devices may have a variety of applications available for browsing. Because there are multiple vectors available both for receiving and entering web addresses safeguards limited to specific vectors may still allow attacks from bad URLs received and entered through unprotected vectors. Indeed there is currently a lack of capability to examine and clear a URL on a mobile device irrespective of its source or the eventual browser selected to display it.

In view of the foregoing it may be understood that there may be significant problems and shortcomings associated with current URL firewall technologies.

Techniques for secure browsing are disclosed. In one particular embodiment the techniques may be realized as a method comprising the steps of in response to a non browser instruction to resolve a first resource reference submitting the first resource reference to a server receiving a response from the server indicating approval of the first resource reference directing the first resource reference to a browser application based on the approval response in response to a non browser instruction to resolve a second resource reference submitting the second resource reference to the server receiving a response from the server indicating disapproval of the second resource reference and determining not to direct the second resource reference to a browser application based on the disapproval response.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the method may further comprise generating a notification associated with the second resource reference based on the disapproval response.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the method may further comprise after determining not to direct the second resource reference to a browser application based on the disapproval response receiving override input from a user to resolve the second resource reference and directing the second resource reference to a browser application based on the override input.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the method may further comprise in response to receiving approval of the first resource reference presenting a plurality of browser applications for selection by a user. Directing the first resource reference to a browser application may be further based on a selection made by the user

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the method may further comprise before the non browser instruction to resolve the first resource reference receiving a selection of a default browser application. The browser application that the first resource reference is directed to may be the default browser application

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment submitting the first resource reference to a server may occur in response to a user selecting a firewall application from a browser list for resolving the first resource reference

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment wherein submitting the first resource reference to a server may occur based on a firewall application having previously been chosen as a default application for resolving resource references

In accordance with another exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as an article of manufacture including at least one processor readable storage medium and instructions stored on the at least one medium. The instructions may be configured to be readable from the at least one medium by at least one processor and thereby cause the at least one processor to operate so as to carry out any and all of the steps in the above described method.

In accordance with another exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as a system comprising one or more processors communicatively coupled to a network wherein the one or more processors are configured to carry out any and all of the steps described with respect to any of the above embodiments.

The present disclosure will now be described in more detail with reference to particular embodiments thereof as shown in the accompanying drawings. While the present disclosure is described below with reference to particular embodiments it should be understood that the present disclosure is not limited thereto. Those of ordinary skill in the art having access to the teachings herein will recognize additional implementations modifications and embodiments as well as other fields of use which are within the scope of the present disclosure as described herein and with respect to which the present disclosure may be of significant utility.

With reference to computer system of modem network interface or some other method may be used to provide connectivity from one or more of client systems and to network . Client systems and may access information on server A or B using for example a web browser or other client software not shown . Such a client may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server A or B or one of storage devices A N B N and or N .

Networks and may be local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs the Internet cellular networks satellite networks or other networks that permit communication between clients servers and other devices communicatively coupled to networks and . Networks and may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Networks and may utilize one or more protocols of one or more clients or servers to which they are communicatively coupled. Networks and may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although networks and are each depicted as one network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments networks and may each comprise a plurality of interconnected networks.

Storage devices A N B N and or N may be network accessible storage and may be local remote or a combination thereof to server A or B. Storage devices A N B N and or N may utilize a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID magnetic tape disk a storage area network SAN an internet small computer systems interface iSCSI SAN a Fibre Channel SAN a common Internet File System CIFS network attached storage NAS a network file system NFS optical based storage or other computer accessible storage. Storage devices A N B N and or N may be used for backup or archival purposes. Further storage devices A N B N and or N may be implemented as part of a multi tier storage environment.

According to some embodiments clients and may be smartphones PDAs desktop computers a laptop computers servers other computers or other devices coupled via a wireless or wired connection to network . Clients and may receive data from user input a database a file a web service and or an application programming interface. In some implementations clients and may specifically be network capable mobile devices such as smartphones or tablets.

Servers A and B may be application servers archival platforms backup servers network storage devices media servers email servers document management platforms enterprise search servers or other devices communicatively coupled to network . Servers A and B may utilize one of storage devices A N B N and or N for the storage of application data backup data or other data. Servers A and B may be hosts such as an application server which may process data traveling between clients and and a backup platform a backup process and or storage. According to some embodiments servers A and B may be platforms used for backing up and or archiving data. One or more portions of data may be backed up or archived based on a backup policy and or an archive applied attributes associated with the data source space available for backup space available at the data source or other factors.

According to some embodiments clients and may contain one or more portions of software for implementation of secure browsing processes such as for example URL firewall application while server A may include one or more portions such as for example URL security module . Further one or more portions of the URL security module may reside at a network centric location. For example server A may be a server a firewall a gateway or other network element that may perform one or more actions to support management of system and network security elements. According to some embodiments network may be an external network e.g. the Internet and server A may be a gateway or firewall between one or more internal components and clients and the external network. According to some embodiments analysis and approval of resource references including URL security module may be implemented as part of a cloud computing environment.

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may include read only memory ROM or flash memory neither shown and random access memory RAM not shown as previously noted. The RAM may be the main memory into which the operating system and application programs may be loaded. The ROM or flash memory can contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components. Applications resident with computer system may be stored on and accessed via a computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive e.g. fixed disk an optical drive e.g. optical drive a floppy disk unit a removable disk unit e.g. Universal Serial Bus drive or other storage medium. According to some embodiments URL firewall application may be resident in system memory .

Storage interface as with the other storage interfaces of computer system can connect to a standard computer readable medium for storage and or retrieval of information such as a fixed disk drive . Fixed disk drive may be a part of computer system or may be separate and accessed through other interface systems. Modem may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a telephone link or to the Internet via an internet service provider ISP . Network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct network link to the Internet via a POP point of presence . Network interface may provide such connection using wireless techniques including digital cellular telephone connection Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD connection digital satellite data connection or the like.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner e.g. document scanners digital cameras and so on . Conversely all of the devices shown in need not be present to practice the present disclosure. The devices and subsystems can be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Code to implement the present disclosure may be stored in computer readable storage media such as one or more of system memory fixed disk optical disk or floppy disk . Code to implement the present disclosure may also be received via one or more interfaces and stored in memory. The operating system provided on computer system may be MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS 2 OS X UNIX Linux or another known operating system.

Power manager may monitor a power level of battery . Power manager may provide one or more APIs Application Programming Interfaces to allow determination of a power level of a time window remaining prior to shutdown of computer system a power consumption rate an indicator of whether computer system is on mains e.g. AC Power or battery power and other power related information. According to some embodiments APIs of power manager may be accessible remotely e.g. accessible to a remote backup management module via a network connection . According to some embodiments battery may be an Uninterruptable Power Supply UPS located either local to or remote from computer system . In such embodiments power manager may provide information about a power level of an UPS.

In one embodiment a client system may be a mobile device which includes an operating system as illustrated in . Here the operating system maintains a browser list which indicates which applications are equipped to receive resource references such as URLS as inputs. In some implementations even though the URL firewall application is not equipped as a browser to resolve resource references the URL firewall application is nonetheless configured to appear on the browser list so that it can respond to a resource reference being selected for resolution. A default system browser and additional installed browser applications are also included on the browser list.

In addition to the URL firewall application and browser applications the system may also include a messaging application which may be an SMS or MMS application an instant messaging application or the like. One or more other non browsing applications may also be installed common examples include email mapping shopping account management and others. Some non browsing applications may present information received from the Internet in a unique format but under some other circumstances may present a resource reference such as a URL for resolution by the mobile device outside of the application.

The device may also include a network module which is equipped to access a network such as the Internet in order to send and receive information not available on the mobile device itself. The operating system may allow any of the browsing and or non browsing applications to interface with the network module in order to send and receive information over the internet as necessary.

The messaging application or another non browsing application may present a user with a resource reference such as a URL that the user may select in order to browse to a resource. The operating system is then configured to allow a user to select any of the browsers on the browser list to resolve the reference and access the resource. This poses a security challenge as firewalls or other security installed for example on the system browser may not also be installed on the other browser applications . This avenue of accessing websites therefore represents a potential security risk.

The risk can be addressed by the user selecting the URL firewall application to resolve the reference. The URL firewall application transmits the reference to a server A including a URL security module which is equipped to evaluate the reference. An approval or disapproval is then returned to the URL firewall application which may convey each approved reference onto a browser application . Unapproved references may instead be flagged for further scrutiny by the system and or user and not passed along to a browser.

The user selects a resource reference to resolve . As discussed above the resource reference may have been provided to the user by means of a non browser application so that the mobile device has to select an appropriate application to resolve the reference.

The system then checks to see if the URL firewall application is set as the default application . In some implementations the method will proceed if the default is not set at all or is set to the URL firewall application. If another default browser is already set to resolve the resource reference then there may not be an opportunity for the URL firewall to intervene therefore it is important that the URL firewall application be either set as the default application for resolving URLs or available for selection by the user.

If the URL browser is not set as the default then the system displays a browser list from which the user may select a browser . The user selects the URL firewall application in order to proceed with the secure browsing process .

Once the URL firewall application is activated to resolve the URL it transmits the URL to a remote security server capable of evaluating the URL . In some implementations this transmission may occur over the same network connection that the application would use if it were browsing to the selected site so that as long as the URL firewall application has the permissions for a browser it should be able to communicate with the security server as necessary.

The security server sends back whether the URL is approved . If the URL is not approved then the URL firewall application may alert the user that a risky URL has been selected for browsing . In some implementations the application may then allow the user to decide whether to proceed with resolving the risky URL or not. The source of the risky URL for example the non browser application or the identity of the messenger if received in a message may also be logged for further analysis or flagged by the system for additional scrutiny. In some implementations the system may provide the option of disabling certain capabilities such as removing the hotlinks from a questionable application or particular messenger based on the disapproved URL.

If the URL is approved then the firewall application may send the URL on to be resolved by a browser application as normal . In some implementations the firewall application may provide the user with the system s browser list minus its own entry. The user may also be able to configure a default browser to which the URL firewall application automatically directs approved URLs.

At this point it should be noted that techniques for secure browsing in accordance with the present disclosure as described above may involve the processing of input data and the generation of output data to some extent. This input data processing and output data generation may be implemented in hardware or software. For example specific electronic components may be employed in a URL firewall application URL security module security server or similar or related circuitry for implementing the functions associated with secure browsing in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. Alternatively one or more processors operating in accordance with instructions may implement the functions associated with secure browsing in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. If such is the case it is within the scope of the present disclosure that such instructions may be stored on one or more non transitory processor readable storage media e.g. a magnetic disk or other storage medium or transmitted to one or more processors via one or more signals embodied in one or more carrier waves.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed other various embodiments of and modifications to the present disclosure in addition to those described herein will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Thus such other embodiments and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure. Further although the present disclosure has been described herein in the context of at least one particular implementation in at least one particular environment for at least one particular purpose those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the present disclosure may be beneficially implemented in any number of environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly the claims set forth below should be construed in view of the full breadth and spirit of the present disclosure as described herein.

