---

title: Low affinity blood brain barrier receptor antibodies and uses therefor
abstract: The present invention relates to antibodies that bind blood brain barrier receptors (BBB-R) and methods of using the same.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09611323&OS=09611323&RS=09611323
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 09611323
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141219
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 306 524 having a filing date of Nov. 29 2011 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. provisional application No. 61 418 223 filed Nov. 30 2010 the contents of which are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.

A sequence listing is submitted concurrently with the specification as an ASCII formatted text file via EFS Web with a file name of P4499R1C1US.txt a creation date of Dec. 18 2014 and a size of 19 714 bytes. The sequence listing filed via EFS Web is part of the specification and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to antibodies that bind blood brain barrier receptors BBB R and methods of using the same.

Brain penetration of large molecule drugs is severely limited by the largely impermeable blood brain barrier BBB . Among the many strategies to overcome this obstacle is to utilize transcytosis trafficking pathways of endogenous receptors expressed at the brain capillary endothelium. Recombinant proteins such as monoclonal antibodies have been designed against these receptors to enable receptor mediated delivery of large molecules to the brain. However strategies to maximize brain uptake while minimizing reverse transcytosis back to the blood and the extent of accumulation after therapeutic dosing remain unexplored. Furthermore whether antibodies that cross the BBB are pharmacodynamically functional is unknown.

Monoclonal antibodies have vast therapeutic potential for treatment of neurological or central nervous system CNS diseases but their passage into the brain is restricted by the blood brain barrier BBB . Past studies have shown that a very small percentage approximately 0.1 of an IgG circulating in the bloodstream crosses through the BBB into the CNS Felgenhauer Klin. Wschr. 52 1158 1164 1974 where the CNS concentration of the antibody may be insufficient to permit a robust effect. The methods and compositions of the invention provide a way to improve the percentage of the antibody that distributes into the CNS and thus more readily attain therapeutic antibody concentrations in the CNS.

Herein is described a group of antibodies against the transferrin receptor TfR that can deliver therapeutics including antibodies and small molecules across the BBB at both trace and therapeutically relevant doses after a single systemic injection in mice. Distribution of antibody changed from vascular to neuronal 24 hours after injection indicating that a significant amount of antibody had transcytosed through brain endothelial cells to reach the parenchyma. The magnitude of antibody uptake into and distribution in the CNS was inversely related to its binding affinity to TfR for the anti TfR variants studied. Proof of BBB transport was achieved using a bispecific antibody that binds both TfR and the amyloid precursor protein APP cleavage enzyme secretase BACE1 . A single systemic dose of the bispecific anti TfR BACE1 antibody engineered using the methodology of the invention not only resulted in significant antibody uptake in brain but also dramatically reduced levels of brain A compared to monospecific anti BACE1 alone suggesting that BBB penetrance affects the potency of anti BACE1. Similarly a bispecific antibody that binds both TfR and amyloid beta i.e. a portion of APP that results from BACE1 cleavage of APP which is one of the main constituents of amyloid plaques was shown to be readily taken up into the brain using the methodology of the invention. The data and experiments described herein highlight several causative mechanisms behind increasing uptake of an antibody into the CNS using a lower affinity antibody approach. First high affinity anti BBB receptor BBB R antibodies e.g. anti TfR limit brain uptake by quickly saturating the BBB R in the brain vasculature thus reducing the total amount of antibody taken up into the brain and also restricting its distribution to the vasculature. Strikingly lowering affinity for the BBB R improves brain uptake and distribution with a robust shift observed in localization from the vasculature to neurons and associated neuropil distributed within the CNS. Second the lower affinity of the antibody for the BBB R is proposed to impair the ability of the antibody to return to the vascular side of the BBB via the BBB R from the CNS side of the membrane because the overall affinity of the antibody for the BBB R is low and the local concentration of the antibody on the CNS side of the BBB is non saturating due to the rapid dispersal of the antibody into the CNS compartment. Third in vivo and as observed for the TfR system antibodies with less affinity for the BBB R are not cleared from the system as efficiently as those with greater affinity for the BBB R and thus remain at higher circulating concentrations than their higher affinity counterparts. This is advantageous because the circulating antibody levels of the lower affinity antibody are sustained at therapeutic levels for a longer period of time than the higher affinity antibody which consequently improves uptake of antibody in brain for a longer period of time. Furthermore this improvement in both plasma and brain exposure may reduce the frequency of dosing in the clinic which would have potential benefit not only for patient compliance and convenience but also in lessening any potential side effects or off target effects of the antibody and or of a therapeutic compound coupled thereto. Anti TfR BACE1 and anti TfR Abeta are each promising and novel therapeutic candidates for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease. Furthermore receptor mediated transport RMT based bispecific targeting technology opens the door for a wide range of potential therapeutics for CNS diseases. The invention provides methods of engineering BBB penetrant therapeutics that greatly improve transport across the BBB and CNS distribution of the therapeutic.

Accordingly in a first embodiment the invention provides a method of transporting a compound across the blood brain barrier comprising exposing an antibody which binds with low affinity to a blood brain barrier receptor BBB R coupled to a compound to the blood brain barrier such that the antibody transports the compound coupled thereto across the blood brain barrier. In one aspect the compound is a neurological disorder drug. In another aspect the compound is an imaging agent. In another aspect the compound is labeled. In another aspect the antibody is labeled. In another aspect the antibody does not impair the binding of the BBB R to one or more of its native ligands. In another such aspect the antibody specifically binds to TfR in such a manner that it does not inhibit binding of the TfR to transferrin. In another aspect the BBB is in a mammal. In another such aspect the mammal is a human. In another such aspect the mammal has a neurological disorder. In another such aspect the neurological disorder is selected from the group consisting of Alzheimer s disease AD stroke dementia muscular dystrophy MD multiple sclerosis MS amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS cystic fibrosis Angelman s syndrome Liddle syndrome Parkinson s disease Pick s disease Paget s disease cancer and traumatic brain injury. In another aspect the BBB is in a human.

In another aspect the antibody has an IC50 for the BBB R from about 1 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 5 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 50 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 100 nM to about 100 M. In another aspect the antibody has an affinity for the BBB R from about 5 nM to about 10 M. In another such aspect the antibody when coupled to a compound has an affinity for the BBB R from about 30 nM to about 1 M. In another such aspect the antibody when coupled to a compound has an affinity for the BBB R from about 50 nM to about 1 M. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an affinity for TfR between those affinities observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an affinity for TfR between those affinities observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an IC50 for TfR between those IC50s observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an IC50 for TfR between those IC50s observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In one aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using scatchard analysis. In another aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using BIACORE analysis. In another aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using a competition ELISA.

In another aspect the BBB R is selected from the group consisting of transferrin receptor TfR insulin receptor insulin like growth factor receptor IGF receptor low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 8 LRP8 low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 1 LRP1 and heparin binding epidermal growth factor like growth factor HB EGF . In another such aspect the BBB R is a human BBB R. In one such aspect the BBB R is TfR. In another such aspect the BBB R is TfR and the antibody does not inhibit TfR activity. In another such aspect the BBB R is TfR and the antibody does not inhibit the binding of TfR to transferrin. In another aspect the compound coupled antibody is administered at a therapeutic dose. In one such aspect the therapeutic dose is a dose that saturates the BBB R to which the antibody specifically binds.

In another aspect the compound is covalently coupled to the antibody. In one such aspect the compound is joined to the antibody by a linker. In one such aspect the linker is cleavable. In another such aspect the linker is not cleavable. In another such aspect the compound is directly linked to the antibody. In one such aspect the antibody is a multispecific antibody and the compound forms one portion of the multispecific antibody. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody comprises a first antigen binding site which binds the BBB R and a second antigen binding site which binds a brain antigen. In another such aspect the brain antigen is selected from the group consisting of beta secretase 1 BACE1 Abeta epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 HER2 Tau apolipoprotein E4 ApoE4 alpha synuclein CD20 huntingtin prion protein PrP leucine rich repeat kinase 2 LRRK2 parkin presenilin 1 presenilin 2 gamma secretase death receptor 6 DR6 amyloid precursor protein APP p75 neurotrophin receptor p75NTR and caspase 6. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody binds both TfR and BACE1. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody binds both TfR and Abeta. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody is labeled. In another aspect the compound is reversibly coupled to the antibody such that the compound is released from the antibody concurrent with or after BBB transport.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of increasing exposure of the CNS to a compound wherein the compound is coupled to an antibody which binds with low affinity to a BBB R thereby increasing the exposure of the CNS to the compound. In one aspect the compound is a neurological disorder drug. In another aspect the compound is an imaging agent. In another aspect the compound is labeled. In another aspect the antibody is labeled. In another aspect the antibody does not impair the binding of the BBB R to one or more of its native ligands. In another such aspect the antibody specifically binds to TfR in such a manner that it does not inhibit binding of the TfR to transferrin. In another aspect the antibody coupled compound is administered to a mammal. In another such aspect the mammal is a human. In another such aspect the mammal has a neurological disorder. In another such aspect the neurological disorder is selected from the group consisting of Alzheimer s disease AD stroke dementia muscular dystrophy MD multiple sclerosis MS amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS cystic fibrosis Angelman s syndrome Liddle syndrome Parkinson s disease Pick s disease Paget s disease cancer and traumatic brain injury.

In another aspect the increase in CNS exposure to the compound is measured relative to the CNS exposure of a compound coupled with a typical antibody not having lowered affinity for the BBB R. In another aspect the increase in CNS exposure to the compound is measured as a ratio of the amount of the compound found in the CNS relative to the amount found in the serum after administration. In another such aspect the increase in CNS exposure results in a ratio of greater than 0.1 . In another aspect the increase in CNS exposure to the compound is measured relative to the CNS exposure of a compound in the absence of a coupled antibody. In another aspect the increase in CNS exposure to the compound is measured by imaging. In another aspect the increase in CNS exposure to the compound is measured by an indirect readout such as a modification of one or more physiological symptoms.

In another aspect the antibody has an IC50 for the BBB R from about 1 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 5 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 50 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 100 nM to about 100 M. In another aspect the antibody has an affinity for the BBB R from about 5 nM to about 10 M. In another such aspect the antibody when coupled to a compound has an affinity for the BBB R from about 30 nM to about 1 M. In another such aspect the antibody when coupled to a compound has an affinity for the BBB R from about 50 nM to about 1 M. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an affinity for TfR between those affinities observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an affinity for TfR between those affinities observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an IC50 for TfR between those IC50s observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an IC50 for TfR between those IC50s observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In one aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using scatchard analysis. In another aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using BIACORE analysis. In another aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using a competition ELISA.

In another aspect the BBB R is selected from the group consisting of transferrin receptor TfR insulin receptor insulin like growth factor receptor IGF receptor low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 8 LRP8 low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 1 LRP1 and heparin binding epidermal growth factor like growth factor HB EGF . In another such aspect the BBB R is a human BBB R. In one such aspect the BBB R is TfR. In another such aspect the BBB R is TfR and the antibody does not inhibit TfR activity. In another such aspect the BBB R is TfR and the antibody does not inhibit the binding of TfR to transferrin. In another aspect the compound coupled antibody is administered at a therapeutic dose. In one such aspect the therapeutic dose is a dose that saturates the BBB R to which the antibody specifically binds.

In another aspect the compound is covalently coupled to the antibody. In one such aspect the compound is joined to the antibody by a linker. In one such aspect the linker is cleavable. In another such aspect the linker is not cleavable. In another such aspect the compound is directly linked to the antibody. In one such aspect the antibody is a multispecific antibody and the compound forms one portion of the multispecific antibody. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody comprises a first antigen binding site which binds the BBB R and a second antigen binding site which binds a brain antigen. In another such aspect the brain antigen is selected from the group consisting of beta secretase 1 BACE1 Abeta epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 HER2 Tau apolipoprotein E4 ApoE4 alpha synuclein CD20 huntingtin prion protein PrP leucine rich repeat kinase 2 LRRK2 parkin presenilin 1 presenilin 2 gamma secretase death receptor 6 DR6 amyloid precursor protein APP p75 neurotrophin receptor p75NTR and caspase 6. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody binds both TfR and BACE1. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody binds both TfR and Abeta. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody is labeled. In another aspect the compound is reversibly coupled to the antibody such that the compound is released from the antibody concurrent with or after BBB transport.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of decreasing clearance of a compound administered to a subject wherein the compound is coupled to an antibody which binds with low affinity to a BBB R such that the clearance of the compound is decreased. In one aspect the compound is a neurological disorder drug. In another aspect the compound is an imaging agent. In another aspect the compound is labeled. In another aspect the antibody is labeled. In another aspect the antibody does not impair the binding of the BBB R to one or more of its native ligands. In another such aspect the antibody specifically binds to TfR in such a manner that it does not inhibit binding of the TfR to transferrin. In another aspect the subject is a mammal. In another such aspect the mammal is a human. In another such aspect the mammal has a neurological disorder. In another such aspect the neurological disorder is selected from the group consisting of Alzheimer s disease AD stroke dementia muscular dystrophy MD multiple sclerosis MS amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS cystic fibrosis Angelman s syndrome Liddle syndrome Parkinson s disease Pick s disease Paget s disease cancer and traumatic brain injury.

In another aspect the decrease in clearance of the compound is measured relative to the clearance of a compound coupled with a typical antibody not having lowered affinity for the BBB R. In another aspect the decrease in clearance of the compound is measured relative to the clearance of the compound in the absence of a coupled antibody.

In another aspect the antibody has an IC50 for the BBB R from about 1 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 5 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 50 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 100 nM to about 100 M. In another aspect the antibody has an affinity for the BBB R from about 5 nM to about 10 M. In another such aspect the antibody when coupled to a compound has an affinity for the BBB R from about 30 nM to about 1 M. In another such aspect the antibody when coupled to a compound has an affinity for the BBB R from about 50 nM to about 1 M. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an affinity for TfR between those affinities observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an affinity for TfR between those affinities observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an IC50 for TfR between those IC50s observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an IC50 for TfR between those IC50s observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In one aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using scatchard analysis. In another aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using BIACORE analysis. In another aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using a competition ELISA.

In another aspect the BBB R is selected from the group consisting of transferrin receptor TfR insulin receptor insulin like growth factor receptor IGF receptor low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 8 LRP8 low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 1 LRP1 and heparin binding epidermal growth factor like growth factor HB EGF . In another such aspect the BBB R is a human BBB R. In one such aspect the BBB R is TfR. In another such aspect the BBB R is TfR and the antibody does not inhibit TfR activity. In another such aspect the BBB R is TfR and the antibody does not inhibit the binding of TfR to transferrin. In another aspect the compound coupled antibody is administered at a therapeutic dose. In one such aspect the therapeutic dose is a dose that saturates the BBB R to which the antibody specifically binds.

In another aspect the compound is covalently coupled to the antibody. In one such aspect the compound is joined to the antibody by a linker. In one such aspect the linker is cleavable. In another such aspect the linker is not cleavable. In another such aspect the compound is directly linked to the antibody. In one such aspect the antibody is a multispecific antibody and the compound forms one portion of the multispecific antibody. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody comprises a first antigen binding site which binds the BBB R and a second antigen binding site which binds a brain antigen. In another such aspect the brain antigen is selected from the group consisting of beta secretase 1 BACE1 Abeta epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 HER2 Tau apolipoprotein E4 ApoE4 alpha synuclein CD20 huntingtin prion protein PrP leucine rich repeat kinase 2 LRRK2 parkin presenilin 1 presenilin 2 gamma secretase death receptor 6 DR6 amyloid precursor protein APP p75 neurotrophin receptor p75NTR and caspase 6. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody binds both TfR and BACE1. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody binds both TfR and Abeta. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody is labeled. In another aspect the compound is reversibly coupled to the antibody such that the compound is released from the antibody concurrent with or after BBB transport.

A method of increasing retention in the CNS of a compound administered to a subject wherein the compound is coupled to an antibody which binds with low affinity to a BBB R such that the retention in the CNS of the compound is increased. In one aspect the compound is a neurological disorder drug. In another aspect the compound is an imaging agent. In another aspect the compound is labeled. In another aspect the antibody is labeled. In another aspect the antibody does not impair the binding of the BBB R to one or more of its native ligands. In another such aspect the antibody specifically binds to TfR in such a manner that it does not inhibit binding of the TfR to transferrin. In another aspect the compound is administered to a mammal. In another such aspect the mammal is a human. In another such aspect the mammal has a neurological disorder. In another such aspect the neurological disorder is selected from the group consisting of Alzheimer s disease AD stroke dementia muscular dystrophy MD multiple sclerosis MS amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS cystic fibrosis Angelman s syndrome Liddle syndrome Parkinson s disease Pick s disease Paget s disease cancer and traumatic brain injury.

In another aspect the increase in CNS retention of the compound is measured relative to the CNS retention of a compound coupled with a typical antibody not having lowered affinity for the BBB R. In another aspect the increase in CNS retention of the compound is measured as a ratio of the amount of the compound found in the CNS relative to the amount found in the serum at one or more time points after administration. In another such aspect the increase in CNS retention results in a ratio of greater than 0.1 at one or more time points after administration. In another aspect the increase in CNS retention of the compound is measured relative to the CNS retention of a compound in the absence of a coupled antibody. In another aspect the increase in CNS retention of the compound is measured by imaging. In another aspect the increase in CNS retention of the compound is measured by an indirect readout such as a modification of one or more physiological symptoms.

In another aspect the antibody has an IC50 for the BBB R from about 1 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 5 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 50 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 100 nM to about 100 M. In another aspect the antibody has an affinity for the BBB R from about 5 nM to about 10 M. In another such aspect the antibody when coupled to a compound has an affinity for the BBB R from about 30 nM to about 1 M. In another such aspect the antibody when coupled to a compound has an affinity for the BBB R from about 50 nM to about 1 M. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an affinity for TfR between those affinities observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an affinity for TfR between those affinities observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an IC50 for TfR between those IC50s observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an IC50 for TfR between those IC50s observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In one aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using scatchard analysis. In another aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using BIACORE analysis. In another aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using a competition ELISA.

In another aspect the BBB R is selected from the group consisting of transferrin receptor TfR insulin receptor insulin like growth factor receptor IGF receptor low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 8 LRP8 low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 1 LRP1 and heparin binding epidermal growth factor like growth factor HB EGF . In another such aspect the BBB R is a human BBB R. In one such aspect the BBB R is TfR. In another such aspect the BBB R is TfR and the antibody does not inhibit TfR activity. In another such aspect the BBB R is TfR and the antibody does not inhibit the binding of TfR to transferrin. In another aspect the compound coupled antibody is administered at a therapeutic dose. In one such aspect the therapeutic dose is a dose that saturates the BBB R to which the antibody specifically binds.

In another aspect the compound is covalently coupled to the antibody. In one such aspect the compound is joined to the antibody by a linker. In one such aspect the linker is cleavable. In another such aspect the linker is not cleavable. In another such aspect the compound is directly linked to the antibody. In one such aspect the antibody is a multispecific antibody and the compound forms one portion of the multispecific antibody. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody comprises a first antigen binding site which binds the BBB R and a second antigen binding site which binds a brain antigen. In another such aspect the brain antigen is selected from the group consisting of beta secretase 1 BACE1 Abeta epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 HER2 Tau apolipoprotein E4 ApoE4 alpha synuclein CD20 huntingtin prion protein PrP leucine rich repeat kinase 2 LRRK2 parkin presenilin 1 presenilin 2 gamma secretase death receptor 6 DR6 amyloid precursor protein APP p75 neurotrophin receptor p75NTR and caspase 6. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody binds both TfR and BACE1. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody binds both TfR and Abeta. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody is labeled. In another aspect the compound is reversibly coupled to the antibody such that the compound is released from the antibody concurrent with or after BBB transport.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of optimizing the pharmacokinetics and or pharmacodynamics of a compound to be efficacious in the CNS of a subject wherein the compound is coupled to an antibody which binds with low affinity to a BBB R and the antibody is selected such that its affinity for the BBB R after coupling to the compound results in an amount of transport of the antibody conjugated to the compound across the BBB that optimizes the pharmacokinetics and or pharmacodynamics of the compound in the CNS. In one aspect the compound is a neurological disorder drug. In another aspect the compound is an imaging agent. In another aspect the compound is labeled. In another aspect the antibody is labeled. In another aspect the antibody does not impair the binding of the BBB R to one or more of its native ligands. In another such aspect the antibody specifically binds to TfR in such a manner that it does not inhibit binding of the TfR to transferrin. In another aspect the BBB is in a mammal. In another such aspect the mammal is a human. In another such aspect the mammal has a neurological disorder. In another such aspect the neurological disorder is selected from the group consisting of Alzheimer s disease AD stroke dementia muscular dystrophy MD multiple sclerosis MS amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS cystic fibrosis Angelman s syndrome Liddle syndrome Parkinson s disease Pick s disease Paget s disease cancer and traumatic brain injury. In another aspect the BBB is in a human.

In one aspect the optimizing may include the generation of a series of antibody compound complexes in which each antibody has a different affinity for the BBB R and assessing the pharmacokinetics and or pharmacodynamics of each in the CNS. In another aspect optimizing may be relative to a known standard such as but not limited to the pharmacokinetics and or pharmacodynamics of the compound when directly introduced into the CNS or when introduced to the subject in the absence of a coupled anti BBB R antibody.

In another aspect the antibody has an IC50 for the BBB R from about 1 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 5 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 50 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 100 nM to about 100 M. In another aspect the antibody has an affinity for the BBB R from about 5 nM to about 10 M. In another such aspect the antibody when coupled to a compound has an affinity for the BBB R from about 30 nM to about 1 M. In another such aspect the antibody when coupled to a compound has an affinity for the BBB R from about 50 nM to about 1 M. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an affinity for TfR between those affinities observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an affinity for TfR between those affinities observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an IC50 for TfR between those IC50s observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an IC50 for TfR between those IC50s observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In one aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using scatchard analysis. In another aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using BIACORE analysis. In another aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using a competition ELISA.

In another aspect the BBB R is selected from the group consisting of transferrin receptor TfR insulin receptor insulin like growth factor receptor IGF receptor low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 8 LRP8 low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 1 LRP1 and heparin binding epidermal growth factor like growth factor HB EGF . In another such aspect the BBB R is a human BBB R. In one such aspect the BBB R is TfR. In another such aspect the BBB R is TfR and the antibody does not inhibit TfR activity. In another such aspect the BBB R is TfR and the antibody does not inhibit the binding of TfR to transferrin. In another aspect the compound coupled antibody is administered at a therapeutic dose. In one such aspect the therapeutic dose is a dose that saturates the BBB R to which the antibody specifically binds.

In another aspect the compound is covalently coupled to the antibody. In one such aspect the compound is joined to the antibody by a linker. In one such aspect the linker is cleavable. In another such aspect the linker is not cleavable. In another such aspect the compound is directly linked to the antibody. In one such aspect the antibody is a multispecific antibody and the compound forms one portion of the multispecific antibody. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody comprises a first antigen binding site which binds the BBB R and a second antigen binding site which binds a brain antigen. In another such aspect the brain antigen is selected from the group consisting of beta secretase 1 BACE1 Abeta epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 HER2 Tau apolipoprotein E4 ApoE4 alpha synuclein CD20 huntingtin prion protein PrP leucine rich repeat kinase 2 LRRK2 parkin presenilin 1 presenilin 2 gamma secretase death receptor 6 DR6 amyloid precursor protein APP p75 neurotrophin receptor p75NTR and caspase 6. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody binds both TfR and BACE1. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody binds both TfR and Abeta. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody is labeled. In another aspect the compound is reversibly coupled to the antibody such that the compound is released from the antibody concurrent with or after BBB transport.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of treating a neurological disorder in a mammal comprising treating the mammal with an antibody that binds a BBB R and is coupled to a compound wherein the antibody has been selected to have a low affinity for the BBB R and thereby improves CNS uptake of the antibody and coupled compound. In one aspect the compound is a neurological disorder drug. In another aspect the compound is an imaging agent. In another aspect the compound is labeled. In another aspect the antibody is labeled. In another aspect the antibody does not impair the binding of the BBB R to one or more of its native ligands. In another such aspect the antibody specifically binds to TfR in such a manner that it does not inhibit binding of the TfR to transferrin. In one aspect the mammal is a human. In another such aspect the mammal has a neurological disorder. In another such aspect the neurological disorder is selected from the group consisting of Alzheimer s disease AD stroke dementia muscular dystrophy MD multiple sclerosis MS amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS cystic fibrosis Angelman s syndrome Liddle syndrome Parkinson s disease Pick s disease Paget s disease cancer and traumatic brain injury.

In one aspect the treating results in lessening or elimination of disorder symptoms. In another aspect the treating results in amelioration of the neurological disorder.

In another aspect the antibody has an IC50 for the BBB R from about 1 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 5 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 50 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 100 nM to about 100 M. In another aspect the antibody has an affinity for the BBB R from about 5 nM to about 10 M. In another such aspect the antibody when coupled to a compound has an affinity for the BBB R from about 30 nM to about 1 M. In another such aspect the antibody when coupled to a compound has an affinity for the BBB R from about 50 nM to about 1 M. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an affinity for TfR between those affinities observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an affinity for TfR between those affinities observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an IC50 for TfR between those IC50s observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an IC50 for TfR between those IC50s observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In one aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using scatchard analysis. In another aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using BIACORE analysis. In another aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using a competition ELISA.

In another aspect the BBB R is selected from the group consisting of transferrin receptor TfR insulin receptor insulin like growth factor receptor IGF receptor low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 8 LRP8 low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 1 LRP1 and heparin binding epidermal growth factor like growth factor HB EGF . In another such aspect the BBB R is a human BBB R. In one such aspect the BBB R is TfR. In another such aspect the BBB R is TfR and the antibody does not inhibit TfR activity. In another such aspect the BBB R is TfR and the antibody does not inhibit the binding of TfR to transferrin. In another aspect the compound coupled antibody is administered at a therapeutic dose. In one such aspect the therapeutic dose is a dose that saturates the BBB R to which the antibody specifically binds.

In another aspect the compound is covalently coupled to the antibody. In one such aspect the compound is joined to the antibody by a linker. In one such aspect the linker is cleavable. In another such aspect the linker is not cleavable. In another such aspect the compound is directly linked to the antibody. In one such aspect the antibody is a multispecific antibody and the compound forms one portion of the multispecific antibody. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody comprises a first antigen binding site which binds the BBB R and a second antigen binding site which binds a brain antigen. In another such aspect the brain antigen is selected from the group consisting of beta secretase 1 BACE1 Abeta epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 HER2 Tau apolipoprotein E4 ApoE4 alpha synuclein CD20 huntingtin prion protein PrP leucine rich repeat kinase 2 LRRK2 parkin presenilin 1 presenilin 2 gamma secretase death receptor 6 DR6 amyloid precursor protein APP p75 neurotrophin receptor p75NTR and caspase 6. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody binds both TfR and BACE1. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody binds both TfR and Abeta. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody is labeled. In another aspect the compound is reversibly coupled to the antibody such that the compound is released from the antibody concurrent with or after BBB transport.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of making an antibody useful for transporting a compound across the BBB comprising selecting an antibody specific for a blood brain barrier receptor BBB R because it has a desirably low affinity for the BBB R.

In one aspect the antibody is selected from a panel of antibodies based upon the affinity of the selected antibody. In another aspect the antibody is engineered to have the affinity. In one such aspect the antibody is generated using any art known protein engineering methodology including but not limited to phage display yeast display random mutagenesis and site directed mutagenesis.

In one aspect the compound is a neurological disorder drug. In another aspect the compound is an imaging agent. In another aspect the compound is labeled. In another aspect the antibody is labeled. In another aspect the antibody does not impair the binding of the BBB R to one or more of its native ligands. In another such aspect the antibody specifically binds to TfR in such a manner that it does not inhibit binding of the TfR to transferrin. In another aspect the BBB is in a mammal. In another such aspect the mammal is a human. In another such aspect the mammal has a neurological disorder. In another such aspect the neurological disorder is selected from the group consisting of Alzheimer s disease AD stroke dementia muscular dystrophy MD multiple sclerosis MS amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS cystic fibrosis Angelman s syndrome Liddle syndrome Parkinson s disease Pick s disease Paget s disease cancer and traumatic brain injury. In another aspect the BBB is in a human.

In another aspect the antibody has an IC50 for the BBB R from about 1 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 5 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 50 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 100 nM to about 100 M. In another aspect the antibody has an affinity for the BBB R from about 5 nM to about 10 M. In another such aspect the antibody when coupled to a compound has an affinity for the BBB R from about 30 nM to about 1 M. In another such aspect the antibody when coupled to a compound has an affinity for the BBB R from about 50 nM to about 1 M. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an affinity for TfR between those affinities observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an affinity for TfR between those affinities observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an IC50 for TfR between those IC50s observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an IC50 for TfR between those IC50s observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In one aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using scatchard analysis. In another aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using BIACORE analysis. In another aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using a competition ELISA.

In another aspect the BBB R is selected from the group consisting of transferrin receptor TfR insulin receptor insulin like growth factor receptor IGF receptor low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 8 LRP8 low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 1 LRP1 and heparin binding epidermal growth factor like growth factor HB EGF . In another such aspect the BBB R is a human BBB R. In one such aspect the BBB R is TfR. In another such aspect the BBB R is TfR and the antibody does not inhibit TfR activity. In another such aspect the BBB R is TfR and the antibody does not inhibit the binding of TfR to transferrin. In another aspect the compound coupled antibody is administered at a therapeutic dose. In one such aspect the therapeutic dose is a dose that saturates the BBB R to which the antibody specifically binds.

In another aspect the compound is covalently coupled to the antibody. In one such aspect the compound is joined to the antibody by a linker. In one such aspect the linker is cleavable. In another such aspect the linker is not cleavable. In another such aspect the compound is directly linked to the antibody. In one such aspect the antibody is a multispecific antibody and the compound forms one portion of the multispecific antibody. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody comprises a first antigen binding site which binds the BBB R and a second antigen binding site which binds a brain antigen. In another such aspect the brain antigen is selected from the group consisting of beta secretase 1 BACE1 Abeta epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 HER2 Tau apolipoprotein E4 ApoE4 alpha synuclein CD20 huntingtin prion protein PrP leucine rich repeat kinase 2 LRRK2 parkin presenilin 1 presenilin 2 gamma secretase death receptor 6 DR6 amyloid precursor protein APP p75 neurotrophin receptor p75NTR and caspase 6. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody binds both TfR and BACE1. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody binds both TfR and Abeta. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody is labeled. In another aspect the compound is reversibly coupled to the antibody such that the compound is released from the antibody concurrent with or after BBB transport.

In another embodiment the invention provides an antibody which binds to a blood brain barrier receptor BBB R with low affinity. In one aspect the affinity of the antibody for the BBB R is from about 5 nM to about 10 M. In another aspect the affinity of the antibody for the BBB R is from about 20 nM to about 1 M. In another aspect the antibody has an IC50 for the BBB R from about 1 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 5 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 50 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the IC50 is from about 100 nM to about 100 M. In another such aspect the antibody when coupled to a compound has an affinity for the BBB R from about 50 nM to about 1 M. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an affinity for TfR between those affinities observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an affinity for TfR between those affinities observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an IC50 for TfR between those IC50s observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In another such aspect the compound coupled antibody specifically binds to TfR and has an IC50 for TfR between those IC50s observed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody and the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. In one aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using scatchard analysis. In another aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using BIACORE analysis. In another aspect the affinity of the anti BBB R or anti BBB R compound for the BBB R is measured using a competition ELISA.

In another aspect the BBB R is selected from the group consisting of transferrin receptor TfR insulin receptor insulin like growth factor receptor IGF receptor low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 8 LRP8 low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 1 LRP1 and heparin binding epidermal growth factor like growth factor HB EGF . In one such aspect the BBB R is TfR. In another such aspect the BBB R is TfR and the antibody does not inhibit TfR activity. In another such aspect the BBB R is TfR and the antibody does not inhibit the binding of TfR to transferrin. In another such aspect the BBB R is a human BBB R.

In another aspect the antibody is coupled to a compound. In one aspect the compound is a neurological disorder drug. In another aspect the compound is an imaging agent. In another aspect the compound is labeled. In another aspect the antibody is labeled. In another aspect the antibody does not impair the binding of the BBB R to one or more of its native ligands. In another such aspect the antibody specifically binds to TfR in such a manner that it does not inhibit binding of the TfR to transferrin.

In another aspect the compound is covalently coupled to the antibody. In one such aspect the compound is joined to the antibody by a linker. In one such aspect the linker is cleavable. In another such aspect the linker is not cleavable. In another such aspect the compound is directly linked to the antibody. In one such aspect the antibody is a multispecific antibody and the compound forms one portion of the multispecific antibody. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody comprises a first antigen binding site which binds the BBB R and a second antigen binding site which binds a brain antigen. In another such aspect the brain antigen is selected from the group consisting of beta secretase 1 BACE1 Abeta epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 HER2 Tau apolipoprotein E4 ApoE4 alpha synuclein CD20 huntingtin prion protein PrP leucine rich repeat kinase 2 LRRK2 parkin presenilin 1 presenilin 2 gamma secretase death receptor 6 DR6 amyloid precursor protein APP p75 neurotrophin receptor p75NTR and caspase 6. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody binds both TfR and BACE1. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody binds both TfR and Abeta. In another such aspect the multispecific antibody is labeled. In another aspect the compound is reversibly coupled to the antibody such that the compound is released from the antibody concurrent with or after BBB transport.

In another aspect the antibody is an antibody fragment with an antigen binding region that binds the BBB R including but not limited to Fab Fab F ab 2 and Fv. In another aspect the antibody is a full length antibody.

In another embodiment the invention provides the use of an antibody that binds with low affinity to a BBB R for the manufacture of a medicament for treating a neurological disorder. Any of the foregoing described low affinity anti BBB R antibodies or any of the low affinity anti BBB R antibodies described elsewhere herein may be used in the method.

In another embodiment the invention provides an antibody that binds with low affinity to a BBB R for use in treating a neurological disorder. Any of the foregoing described low affinity anti BBB R antibodies or any of the low affinity anti BBB R antibodies described elsewhere herein may be used in the method. Accordingly in a first aspect the invention provides an antibody which binds to a blood brain barrier receptor BBB R wherein the affinity of the antibody for the BBB R is from about 5 nM to about 10 M e.g. from about 20 nM to about 1 M . Optionally the BBB R is selected from the group consisting of transferrin receptor TfR insulin receptor insulin like growth factor receptor IGF receptor low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 1 LRP1 low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 8 LRP8 and heparin binding epidermal growth factor like growth factor HB EGF . Optionally the antibody is coupled with a therapeutic compound such as a neurological disorder drug. In one embodiment the antibody is a multispecific antibody which comprises a first antigen binding site which binds the BBB R and a second antigen binding site which binds a brain antigen for instance where the brain antigen is selected from the group consisting of beta secretase 1 BACE1 amyloid beta Abeta epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 HER2 Tau apolipoprotein A3 ApoE3 apolipoprotein E4 ApoE4 alpha synuclein CD20 Huntingtin prion protein PrP leucine rich repeat kinase 2 LRRK2 parkin presenilin 1 presenilin 2 gamma secretase death receptor 6 DR6 amyloid precursor protein APP p75 neurotrophin receptor p75NTR and caspase 6. The antibody e.g. multispecific antibody includes antibody fragments and full length antibodies.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of transporting a therapeutic compound such as a neurological disorder drug across the blood brain barrier comprising exposing the anti BBB R antibody coupled with a neurological disorder drug to the blood brain barrier such that the antibody transports the neurological disorder drug coupled thereto across the blood brain barrier. The blood brain barrier in this method may be in a mammal e.g. one with a neurological disorder examples of which include Alzheimer s disease AD including but not limited to mild cognitive impairment and prodromal AD stroke dementia muscular dystrophy MD multiple sclerosis MS amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS cystic fibrosis Angelman s syndrome Liddle syndrome Parkinson s disease Pick s disease Paget s disease cancer e.g. cancer affecting the CNS or brain and traumatic brain injury.

The invention additionally concerns a method of making an antibody useful for transporting a therapeutic compound such as a neurological disorder drug across the blood brain barrier comprising selecting an antibody against a blood brain barrier receptor BBB R because it has an affinity for the BBB R which is from about 5 nM to about 10 M. In one embodiment the antibody is selected from a panel of antibodies because it has the desired affinity. Alternatively or additionally the antibody is engineered to have the desired affinity. The method optionally further comprises coupling the antibody with a therapeutic compound such as a neurological disorder drug. For example the method can comprise making a multispecific antibody which comprises a first antigen binding site which binds the BBB R and a second antigen binding site which binds a brain antigen.

The invention additionally provides a method of treating a neurological disorder in a mammal comprising treating the mammal with a multispecific antibody that binds both a blood brain barrier receptor BBB R and a brain antigen wherein the anti BBB R antibody has been selected to have a low affinity for the BBB R and thereby improves brain uptake of the anti brain antigen antibody. Optionally the multispecific antibody binds both transferrin receptor TfR and BACE1 or Abeta.

It will be understood that any of the foregoing methods and compositions of the invention may be combined with one another and or with the further aspects of the invention described in the specification herein.

The blood brain barrier or BBB refers to the physiological barrier between the peripheral circulation and the brain and spinal cord which is formed by tight junctions within the brain capillary endothelial plasma membranes creating a tight barrier that restricts the transport of molecules into the brain even very small molecules such as urea 60 Daltons . The blood brain barrier within the brain the blood spinal cord barrier within the spinal cord and the blood retinal barrier within the retina are contiguous capillary barriers within the CNS and are herein collectively referred to a the blood brain barrier or BBB. The BBB also encompasses the blood CSF barrier choroid plexus where the barrier is comprised of ependymal cells rather than capillary endothelial cells.

The central nervous system or CNS refers to the complex of nerve tissues that control bodily function and includes the brain and spinal cord.

A blood brain barrier receptor abbreviated BBB R herein is a transmembrane receptor protein expressed on brain endothelial cells which is capable of transporting molecules across the blood brain barrier. Examples of BBB R herein include transferrin receptor TfR insulin receptor insulin like growth factor receptor IGF R low density lipoprotein receptors including without limitation low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 1 LRP1 and low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 8 LRP8 and heparin binding epidermal growth factor like growth factor HB EGF . An exemplary BBB R herein is transferrin receptor TfR .

The transferrin receptor TfR is a transmembrane glycoprotein with a molecular weight of about 180 000 composed of two disulphide bonded sub units each of apparent molecular weight of about 90 000 involved in iron uptake in vertebrates. In one embodiment the TfR herein is human TfR comprising the amino acid sequence as in Schneider et al. 311 675 678 1984 for example.

A neurological disorder as used herein refers to a disease or disorder which affects the CNS and or which has an etiology in the CNS. Exemplary CNS diseases or disorders include but are not limited to neuropathy amyloidosis cancer an ocular disease or disorder viral or microbial infection inflammation ischemia neurodegenerative disease seizure behavioral disorders and a lysosomal storage disease. For the purposes of this application the CNS will be understood to include the eye which is normally sequestered from the rest of the body by the blood retina barrier. Specific examples of neurological disorders include but are not limited to neurodegenerative diseases including but not limited to Lewy body disease postpoliomyelitis syndrome Shy Draeger syndrome olivopontocerebellar atrophy Parkinson s disease multiple system atrophy striatonigral degeneration tauopathies including but not limited to Alzheimer disease and supranuclear palsy prion diseases including but not limited to bovine spongiform encephalopathy scrapie Creutzfeldt Jakob syndrome kuru Gerstmann Straussler Scheinker disease chronic wasting disease and fatal familial insomnia bulbar palsy motor neuron disease and nervous system heterodegenerative disorders including but not limited to Canavan disease Huntington s disease neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis Alexander s disease Tourette s syndrome Menkes kinky hair syndrome Cockayne syndrome Halervorden Spatz syndrome lafora disease Rett syndrome hepatolenticular degeneration Lesch Nyhan syndrome and Unverricht Lundborg syndrome dementia including but not limited to Pick s disease and spinocerebellar ataxia cancer e.g. of the CNS and or brain including brain metastases resulting from cancer elsewhere in the body .

A neurological disorder drug is a drug or therapeutic agent that treats one or more neurological disorder s . Neurological disorder drugs of the invention include but are not limited to antibodies peptides proteins natural ligands of one or more CNS target s modified versions of natural ligands of one or more CNS target s aptamers inhibitory nucleic acids i.e. small inhibitory RNAs siRNA and short hairpin RNAs shRNA ribozymes and small molecules or active fragments of any of the foregoing. Exemplary neurological disorder drugs of the invention are described herein and include but are not limited to antibodies aptamers proteins peptides inhibitory nucleic acids and small molecules and active fragments of any of the foregoing that either are themselves or specifically recognize and or act upon i.e. inhibit activate or detect a CNS antigen or target molecule such as but not limited to amyloid precursor protein or portions thereof amyloid beta beta secretase gamma secretase tau alpha synuclein parkin huntingtin DR6 presenilin ApoE glioma or other CNS cancer markers and neurotrophins. Non limiting examples of neurological disorder drugs and disorders they may be used to treat are provided in the following Table 1 

An imaging agent is a compound that has one or more properties that permit its presence and or location to be detected directly or indirectly. Examples of such imaging agents include proteins and small molecule compounds incorporating a labeled moiety that permits detection.

A CNS antigen or brain antigen is an antigen expressed in the CNS including the brain which can be targeted with an antibody or small molecule. Examples of such antigens include without limitation beta secretase 1 BACE1 amyloid beta Abeta epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 HER2 Tau apolipoprotein E4 ApoE4 alpha synuclein CD20 huntingtin prion protein PrP leucine rich repeat kinase 2 LRRK2 parkin presenilin 1 presenilin 2 gamma secretase death receptor 6 DR6 amyloid precursor protein APP p75 neurotrophin receptor p75NTR and caspase 6. In one embodiment the antigen is BACE1.

The term BACE1 as used herein refers to any native beta secretase 1 also called site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 membrane associated aspartic protease 2 memapsin 2 aspartyl protease 2 or Asp2 from any vertebrate source including mammals such as primates e.g. humans and rodents e.g. mice and rats unless otherwise indicated. The term encompasses full length unprocessed BACE1 as well as any form of BACE1 which results from processing in the cell. The term also encompasses naturally occurring variants of BACE1 e.g. splice variants or allelic variants. The amino acid sequence of an exemplary BACE1 polypeptide is the sequence for human BACE1 isoform A as reported in Vassar et al. 286 735 741 1999 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Several other isoforms of human BACE1 exist including isoforms B C and D. See UniProtKB Swiss Prot Entry P56817 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The terms anti beta secretase antibody anti BACE1 antibody an antibody that binds to beta secretase and an antibody that binds to BACE1 refer to an antibody that is capable of binding BACE1 with sufficient affinity such that the antibody is useful as a diagnostic and or therapeutic agent in targeting BACE1. In one embodiment the extent of binding of an anti BACE1 antibody to an unrelated non BACE1 protein is less than about 10 of the binding of the antibody to BACE1 as measured e.g. by a radioimmunoassay RIA . In certain embodiments an antibody that binds to BACE1 has a dissociation constant Kd of 1 M 100 nM 10 nM 1 nM 0.1 nM 0.01 nM or 0.001 nM e.g. 10M or less e.g. from 10M to 10M e.g. from 10M to 10M . In certain embodiments an anti BACE1 antibody binds to an epitope of BACE1 that is conserved among BACE1 from different species and isoforms. In one embodiment an antibody is provided that binds to the epitope on BACE1 bound by anti BACE1 antibody YW412.8.31. In other embodiments an antibody is provided that binds to an exosite within BACE1 located in the catalytic domain of BACE1. In one embodiment an antibody is provided that competes with the peptides identified in Kornacker et al. 44 11567 11573 2005 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety i.e. Peptides 1 2 3 1 11 1 10 1 9 1 8 1 7 1 6 2 12 3 12 4 12 5 12 6 12 7 12 8 12 9 12 10 12 4 5 6 5 10 5 9 scrambled Y5A P6A Y7A F8A I9A P10A and L11A for binding to BACE1. Exemplary BACE1 antibody sequences are depicted in and . One exemplary antibody herein comprises the variable domains of the antibody YW412.8.31 e.g. as in .

A native sequence protein herein refers to a protein comprising the amino acid sequence of a protein found in nature including naturally occurring variants of the protein. The term as used herein includes the protein as isolated from a natural source thereof or as recombinantly produced.

The term antibody herein is used in the broadest sense and specifically covers monoclonal antibodies polyclonal antibodies multispecific antibodies e.g. bispecific antibodies formed from at least two intact antibodies and antibody fragments so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity.

 Antibody fragments herein comprise a portion of an intact antibody which retains the ability to bind antigen. Examples of antibody fragments include Fab Fab F ab 2 and Fv fragments diabodies linear antibodies single chain antibody molecules and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragments.

The term monoclonal antibody as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies i.e. the individual antibodies comprising the population are identical and or bind the same epitope except for possible variants that may arise during production of the monoclonal antibody such variants generally being present in minor amounts. In contrast to polyclonal antibody preparations that typically include different antibodies directed against different determinants epitopes each monoclonal antibody is directed against a single determinant on the antigen. In addition to their specificity the monoclonal antibodies are advantageous in that they are uncontaminated by other immunoglobulins. The modifier monoclonal indicates the character of the antibody as being obtained from a substantially homogeneous population of antibodies and is not to be construed as requiring production of the antibody by any particular method. For example the monoclonal antibodies to be used in accordance with the present invention may be made by the hybridoma method first described by Kohler et al. 256 495 1975 or may be made by recombinant DNA methods see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 . The monoclonal antibodies may also be isolated from phage antibody libraries using the techniques described in Clackson et al. 352 624 628 1991 and Marks et al. 222 581 597 1991 for example. Specific examples of monoclonal antibodies herein include chimeric antibodies humanized antibodies and human antibodies including antigen binding fragments thereof.

The monoclonal antibodies herein specifically include chimeric antibodies immunoglobulins in which a portion of the heavy and or light chain is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from a particular species or belonging to a particular antibody class or subclass while the remainder of the chain s is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from another species or belonging to another antibody class or subclass as well as fragments of such antibodies so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 Morrison et al. 81 6851 6855 1984 . Chimeric antibodies of interest herein include primatized antibodies comprising variable domain antigen binding sequences derived from a non human primate e.g. Old World Monkey such as baboon rhesus or cynomolgus monkey and human constant region sequences U.S. Pat. No. 5 693 780 .

 Humanized forms of non human e.g. murine antibodies are chimeric antibodies that contain minimal sequence derived from non human immunoglobulin. For the most part humanized antibodies are human immunoglobulins recipient antibody in which residues from a hypervariable region of the recipient are replaced by residues from a hypervariable region of a non human species donor antibody such as mouse rat rabbit or nonhuman primate having the desired specificity affinity and capacity. In some instances framework region FR residues of the human immunoglobulin are replaced by corresponding non human residues. Furthermore humanized antibodies may comprise residues that are not found in the recipient antibody or in the donor antibody. These modifications are made to further refine antibody performance. In general the humanized antibody will comprise substantially all of at least one and typically two variable domains in which all or substantially all of the hypervariable regions correspond to those of a non human immunoglobulin and all or substantially all of the FRs are those of a human immunoglobulin sequence except for FR substitution s as noted above. The humanized antibody optionally also will comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region typically that of a human immunoglobulin. For further details see Jones et al. 321 522 525 1986 Riechmann et al. 332 323 329 1988 and Presta 2 593 596 1992 .

A human antibody herein is one comprising an amino acid sequence structure that corresponds with the amino acid sequence structure of an antibody obtainable from a human B cell and includes antigen binding fragments of human antibodies. Such antibodies can be identified or made by a variety of techniques including but not limited to production by transgenic animals e.g. mice that are capable upon immunization of producing human antibodies in the absence of endogenous immunoglobulin production see e.g. Jakobovits et al. 90 2551 1993 Jakobovits et al. 362 255 258 1993 Bruggermann et al. 7 33 1993 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 591 669 5 589 369 and 5 545 807 selection from phage display libraries expressing human antibodies or human antibody fragments see for example McCafferty et al. 348 552 553 1990 Johnson et al. 3 564 571 1993 Clackson et al. 352 624 628 1991 Marks et al. 222 581 597 1991 Griffith et al. 12 725 734 1993 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 565 332 and 5 573 905 generation via in vitro activated B cells see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 567 610 and 5 229 275 and isolation from human antibody producing hybridomas.

A multispecific antibody herein is an antibody having binding specificities for at least two different epitopes. Exemplary multispecific antibodies may bind both a BBB R and a brain antigen. Multispecific antibodies can be prepared as full length antibodies or antibody fragments e.g. F ab bispecific antibodies . Engineered antibodies with two three or more e.g. four functional antigen binding sites are also contemplated see e.g. US Appln No. US 2002 0004587 A1 Miller et al. . Multispecific antibodies can be prepared as full length antibodies or antibody fragments.

Antibodies herein include amino acid sequence variants with altered antigen binding or biological activity. Examples of such amino acid alterations include antibodies with enhanced affinity for antigen e.g. affinity matured antibodies and antibodies with altered Fc region if present e.g. with altered increased or diminished antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC and or complement dependent cytotoxicity CDC see for example WO 00 42072 Presta L. and WO 99 51642 Iduosogie et al. and or increased or diminished serum half life see for example WO00 42072 Presta L. .

An affinity modified variant has one or more substituted hypervariable region or framework residues of a parent antibody e.g. of a parent chimeric humanized or human antibody that alter increase or reduce affinity. In one embodiment the resulting variant s selected for further development will have reduced affinity for the BBB R according to the present invention. A convenient way for generating such substitutional variants uses phage display. Briefly several hypervariable region sites e.g. 6 7 sites are mutated to generate all possible amino substitutions at each site. The antibody variants thus generated are displayed in a monovalent fashion from filamentous phage particles as fusions to the gene III product of M13 packaged within each particle. The phage displayed variants are then screened for their biological activity e.g. binding affinity . In order to identify candidate hypervariable region sites for modification alanine scanning mutagenesis can be performed to identify hypervariable region residues contributing significantly to antigen binding. Alternatively or additionally it may be beneficial to analyze a crystal structure of the antigen antibody complex to identify contact points between the antibody and its target. Such contact residues and neighboring residues are candidates for substitution according to the techniques elaborated herein. Once such variants are generated the panel of variants is subjected to screening and antibodies with altered affinity may be selected for further development.

The antibody herein may be conjugated with a heterologous molecule for example to increase half life or stability or otherwise improve the antibody. For example the antibody may be linked to one of a variety of non proteinaceous polymers e.g. polyethylene glycol PEG polypropylene glycol polyoxyalkylenes or copolymers of polyethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol. Antibody fragments such as Fab linked to one or more PEG molecules are an exemplary embodiment of the invention.

The antibody herein may be a glycosylation variant such that any carbohydrate attached to the Fc region if present is altered. For example antibodies with a mature carbohydrate structure that lacks fucose attached to an Fc region of the antibody are described in US Pat Appl No US 2003 0157108 Presta L. . See also US 2004 0093621 Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co. Ltd . Antibodies with a bisecting N acetylglucosamine GlcNAc in the carbohydrate attached to an Fc region of the antibody are referenced in WO 2003 011878 Jean Mairet et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 684 Umana et al. Antibodies with at least one galactose residue in the oligosaccharide attached to an Fc region of the antibody are reported in WO 1997 30087 Patel et al. See also WO 1998 58964 Raju S. and WO 1999 22764 Raju S. concerning antibodies with altered carbohydrate attached to the Fc region thereof. See also US 2005 0123546 Umana et al. describing antibodies with modified glycosylation.

The term hypervariable region when used herein refers to the amino acid residues of an antibody that are responsible for antigen binding. The hypervariable region comprises amino acid residues from a complementarity determining region or CDR e.g. residues 24 34 L1 50 56 L2 and 89 97 L3 in the light chain variable domain and 31 35 H1 50 65 H2 and 95 102 H3 in the heavy chain variable domain Kabat et al. 5th Ed. Public Health Service National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. 1991 and or those residues from a hypervariable loop e.g. residues 26 32 L1 50 52 L2 and 91 96 L3 in the light chain variable domain and 26 32 H1 53 55 H2 and 96 101 H3 in the heavy chain variable domain Chothia and Lesk 196 901 917 1987 . Framework or FR residues are those variable domain residues other than the hypervariable region residues as herein defined.

A full length antibody is one which comprises an antigen binding variable region as well as a light chain constant domain CL and heavy chain constant domains CH1 CH2 and CH3. The constant domains may be native sequence constant domains e.g. human native sequence constant domains or amino acid sequence variants thereof.

A naked antibody is an antibody as herein defined that is not conjugated to a heterologous molecule such as a cytotoxic moiety polymer or radiolabel.

Antibody effector functions refer to those biological activities attributable to the Fc region a native sequence Fc region or amino acid sequence variant Fc region of an antibody. Examples of antibody effector functions include C1q binding complement dependent cytotoxicity CDC Fc receptor binding antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity ADCC etc. In one embodiment the antibody herein essentially lacks effector function.

Depending on the amino acid sequence of the constant domain of their heavy chains full length antibodies can be assigned to different classes . There are five major classes of full length antibodies IgA IgD IgE IgG and IgM and several of these may be further divided into subclasses isotypes e.g. IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA and IgA2. The heavy chain constant domains that correspond to the different classes of antibodies are called alpha delta epsilon gamma and mu respectively. The subunit structures and three dimensional configurations of different classes of immunoglobulins are well known.

The term recombinant antibody as used herein refers to an antibody e.g. a chimeric humanized or human antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that is expressed by a recombinant host cell comprising nucleic acid encoding the antibody. Examples of host cells for producing recombinant antibodies include 1 mammalian cells for example Chinese Hamster Ovary CHO COS myeloma cells including Y0 and NS0 cells baby hamster kidney BHK Hela and Vero cells 2 insect cells for example sf9 sf21 and Tn5 3 plant cells for example plants belonging to the genus e.g. 4 yeast cells for example those belonging to the genus e.g. or the genus e.g. 5 bacterial cells for example cells or cells etc.

As used herein specifically binding or binds specifically to refers to an antibody selectively or preferentially binding to an antigen. The binding affinity is generally determined using a standard assay such as Scatchard analysis or surface plasmon resonance technique e.g. using BIACORE .

An antibody that binds to the same epitope as a reference antibody refers to an antibody that blocks binding of the reference antibody to its antigen in a competition assay by 50 or more and conversely the reference antibody blocks binding of the antibody to its antigen in a competition assay by 50 or more. In one embodiment an anti BACE1 antibody binds to the BACE1 epitope bound by YW412.8.31.

The term cytotoxic agent as used herein refers to a substance that inhibits or prevents a cellular function and or causes cell death or destruction. Cytotoxic agents include but are not limited to radioactive isotopes e.g. At I I Y Re Re Sm Bi P Pband radioactive isotopes of Lu chemotherapeutic agents or drugs e.g. methotrexate adriamicin vinca alkaloids vincristine vinblastine etoposide doxorubicin melphalan mitomycin C chlorambucil daunorubicin or other intercalating agents growth inhibitory agents enzymes and fragments thereof such as nucleolytic enzymes antibiotics toxins such as small molecule toxins or enzymatically active toxins of bacterial fungal plant or animal origin including fragments and or variants thereof.

An effective amount of an agent e.g. a pharmaceutical formulation refers to an amount effective at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired therapeutic or prophylactic result.

The term Fc region herein is used to define a C terminal region of an immunoglobulin heavy chain that contains at least a portion of the constant region. The term includes native sequence Fc regions and variant Fc regions. In one embodiment a human IgG heavy chain Fc region extends from Cys226 or from Pro230 to the carboxyl terminus of the heavy chain. However the C terminal lysine Lys447 of the Fc region may or may not be present. Unless otherwise specified herein numbering of amino acid residues in the Fc region or constant region is according to the EU numbering system also called the EU index as described in Kabat et al. 5th Ed. Public Health Service National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. 1991.

 Framework or FR refers to variable domain residues other than hypervariable region HVR residues. The FR of a variable domain generally consists of four FR domains FR1 FR2 FR3 and FR4. Accordingly the HVR and FR sequences generally appear in the following sequence in VH or VL FR1 H1 L1 FR2 H2 L2 FR3 H3 L3 FR4.

An immunoconjugate is an antibody conjugated to one or more heterologous molecule s including but not limited to a label or cytotoxic agent. Optionally such conjugation is via a linker.

A linker as used herein is a structure that covalently or non covalently connects the anti BBB R antibody to heterologous molecule. In certain embodiments a linker is a peptide. In other embodiments a linker is a chemical linker.

A label is a marker coupled with the antibody herein and used for detection or imaging. Examples of such labels include radiolabel a fluorophore a chromophore or an affinity tag. In one embodiment the label is a radiolabel used for medical imaging for example tc99m or I123 or a spin label for nuclear magnetic resonance NMR imaging also known as magnetic resonance imaging mri such as iodine 123 again iodine 131 indium 111 fluorine 19 carbon 13 nitrogen 15 oxygen 17 gadolinium manganese iron etc.

An individual or subject is a mammal. Mammals include but are not limited to domesticated animals e.g. cows sheep cats dogs and horses primates e.g. humans and non human primates such as monkeys rabbits and rodents e.g. mice and rats . In certain embodiments the individual or subject is a human.

An isolated antibody is one which has been separated from a component of its natural environment. In some embodiments an antibody is purified to greater than 95 or 99 purity as determined by for example electrophoretic e.g. SDS PAGE isoelectric focusing IEF capillary electrophoresis or chromatographic e.g. ion exchange or reverse phase HPLC . For review of methods for assessment of antibody purity see e.g. Flatman et al. 848 79 87 2007 .

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration combination therapy contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The term pharmaceutical formulation refers to a preparation which is in such form as to permit the biological activity of an active ingredient contained therein to be effective and which contains no additional components which are unacceptably toxic to a subject to which the formulation would be administered.

A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to an ingredient in a pharmaceutical formulation other than an active ingredient which is nontoxic to a subject. A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes but is not limited to a buffer excipient stabilizer or preservative.

As used herein treatment and grammatical variations thereof such as treat or treating refers to clinical intervention in an attempt to alter the natural course of the individual being treated and can be performed either for prophylaxis or during the course of clinical pathology. Desirable effects of treatment include but are not limited to preventing occurrence or recurrence of disease alleviation of symptoms diminishment of any direct or indirect pathological consequences of the disease preventing metastasis decreasing the rate of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission or improved prognosis. In some embodiments antibodies of the invention are used to delay development of a disease or to slow the progression of a disease.

The methods and articles of manufacture of the present invention use or incorporate an antibody that binds to BBB R. The BBB R antigen to be used for production of or screening for antibodies may be e.g. a soluble form of or a portion thereof e.g. the extracellular domain containing the desired epitope. Alternatively or additionally cells expressing BBB R at their cell surface can be used to generate or screen for antibodies. Other forms of BBB R useful for generating antibodies will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Examples of BBB Rs herein include transferrin receptor TfR insulin receptor insulin like growth factor receptor IGF R low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 1 LRP1 and LRP8 etc and heparin binding epidermal growth factor like growth factor HB EGF .

According to the present invention a low affinity anti BBB R e.g. anti TfR antibody is selected based on the data herein demonstrating that such antibodies display improved CNS for example brain uptake. In order to identify such low affinity antibodies various assays for measuring antibody affinity are available including without limitation Scatchard assay and surface plasmon resonance technique e.g. using BIACORE . According to one embodiment of the invention the antibody has an affinity for the BBB R antigen e.g. for TfR from about 5 nM or from about 20 nM or from about 100 nM to about 10 M or to about 1 M or to about 500 nM. Thus the affinity may be in the range from about 5 nM to about 10 M or in the range from about 20 nM to about 1 M or in the range from about 100 nM to about 500 nM e.g. as measured by Scatchard analysis or BIACORE .

Thus the invention provides a method of making an antibody useful for transporting a neurological disorder drug across the blood brain barrier comprising selecting an antibody from a panel of antibodies against a blood brain barrier receptor BBB R because it has an affinity for the BBB R which is in the range from about 5 nM or from about 20 nM or from about 100 nM to about 10 M or to about 1 M or to about 500 mM. Thus the affinity may be in the range from about 5 nM to about 10 M or in the range from about 20 nM to about 1 M or in the range from about 100 nM to about 500 nM e.g. as measured by Scatchard analysis or BIACORE . As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art conjugating a heterologous molecule compound to an antibody will often decrease the affinity of the antibody for its target due e.g. to steric hindrance or even to elimination of one binding arm if the antibody is made multispecific with one or more arms binding to a different antigen than the antibody s original target. In one embodiment a low affinity antibody of the invention specific for TfR conjugated to BACE1 had a Kd for TfR as measured by BIACORE of about 30 nM. In another embodiment a low affinity antibody of the invention specific for TfR conjugated to BACE1 had a Kd for TfR as measured by BIACORE of about 600 nM.

One exemplary assay for evaluating antibody affinity is by Scatchard analysis. For example the anti BBB R antibody of interest can be iodinated using the lactoperoxidase method Bennett and Horuk 288 pg. 134 148 1997 . A radiolabeled anti BBB R antibody is purified from free I Na by gel filtration using a NAP 5 column and its specific activity measured. Competition reaction mixtures of 50 L containing a fixed concentration of iodinated antibody and decreasing concentrations of serially diluted unlabeled antibody are placed into 96 well plates. Cells transiently expressing BBB R are cultured in growth media consisting of Dulbecco s modified eagle s medium DMEM Genentech supplemented with 10 FBS 2 mM L glutamine and 1 penicillin streptomycin at 37 C. in 5 CO. Cells are detached from the dishes using Sigma Cell Dissociation Solution and washed with binding buffer DMEM with 1 bovine serum albumin 50 mM HEPES pH 7.2 and 0.2 sodium azide . The washed cells are added at an approximate density of 200 000 cells in 0.2 mL of binding buffer to the 96 well plates containing the 50 L competition reaction mixtures. The final concentration of the unlabeled antibody in the competition reaction with cells is varied starting at 1000 nM and then decreasing by 1 2 fold dilution for 10 concentrations and including a zero added buffer only sample. Competition reactions with cells for each concentration of unlabeled antibody are assayed in triplicate. Competition reactions with cells are incubated for 2 hours at room temperature. After the 2 hour incubation the competition reactions are transferred to a filter plate and washed four times with binding buffer to separate free from bound iodinated antibody. The filters are counted by gamma counter and the binding data are evaluated using the fitting algorithm of Munson and Rodbard 1980 to determine the binding affinity of the antibody.

An exemplary scatchard analysis using the compositions of the invention may be performed as follows. Anti TFRwas iodinated using the lactoperoxidase method Bennett and Horuk 288 pg. 134 148 1997 . Radiolabeled anti TFRwas purified from free I Na by gel filtration using a NAP 5 column purified anti TFRhad a specific activity of 19.82 Ci g. Competition reaction mixtures of 50 L containing a fixed concentration of iodinated antibody and decreasing concentrations of serially diluted unlabeled antibody were placed into 96 well plates. The 293 cells transiently expressing murine TfR were cultured in growth media consisting of Dulbecco s modified eagle s medium DMEM Genentech supplemented with 10 FBS 2 mM L glutamine and 1 penicillin streptomycin at 37 C. in 5 CO. Cells were detached from the dishes using Sigma Cell Dissociation Solution and washed with binding buffer DMEM with 1 bovine serum albumin 50 mM HEPES pH 7.2 and 0.2 sodium azide . The washed cells were added at an approximate density of 200 000 cells in 0.2 mL of binding buffer to the 96 well plates containing the 50 L competition reaction mixtures. The final concentration of the iodinated antibody in each competition reaction with cells was 100 pM 134 000 cpm per 0.25 mL . The final concentration of the unlabeled antibody in the competition reaction with cells varied starting at 1000 nM and then decreasing by 1 2 fold dilution for 10 concentrations and including a zero added buffer only sample. Competition reactions with cells for each concentration of unlabeled antibody were assayed in triplicate. Competition reactions with cells were incubated for 2 hours at room temperature. After the 2 hour incubation the competition reactions were transferred to a Millipore Multiscreen filter plate and washed four times with binding buffer to separate free from bound iodinated antibody. The filters were counted on a Wallac Wizard 1470 gamma counter PerkinElmer Life and Analytical Sciences Waltham Mass. . The binding data were evaluated using New Ligand software Genentech which uses the fitting algorithm of Munson and Rodbard 1980 to determine the binding affinity of the antibody.

An exemplary BIACORE analysis using the compositions of the invention may be performed as follows. Kd was measured using surface plasmon resonance assays using a BIACORE 2000 BIAcore Inc. Piscataway N.J. at 25 C. using anti human Fc kit BiAcore Inc. Piscataway N.J. . Briefly carboxymethylated dextran biosensor chips CMS BIACORE Inc. were activated with N ethyl N 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride EDC and N hydroxysuccinimide NHS according to the supplier s instructions. Anti human Fc antibody was diluted with 10 mM sodium acetate pH 4.0 to 50 g ml before injection at a flow rate of 5 l minute to achieve approximately 10000 response units RU of coupled protein. Following the injection of antibody 1 M ethanolamine was injected to block unreacted groups. For kinetics measurements anti TfR antibody variants were injected in HBS P to reach about 220 RU then two fold serial dilutions of MuTfR His 0.61 nM to 157 nM were injected in HBS P at 25 C. at a flow rate of approximately 30 l min. Association rates kon and dissociation rates koff were calculated using a simple one to one Langmuir binding model BIACORE Evaluation Software version 3.2 by simultaneously fitting the association and dissociation sensorgrams. The equilibrium dissociation constant Kd was calculated as the ratio koff kon. See e.g. Chen et al. 293 865 881 1999 

According to another embodiment Kd is measured using surface plasmon resonance assays with a BIACORE 2000 device BIAcore Inc. Piscataway N.J. at 25 C. using anti human Fc kit BiAcore Inc. Piscataway N.J. . Briefly carboxymethylated dextran biosensor chips CMS BIACORE Inc. are activated with N ethyl N 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride EDC and N hydroxysuccinimide NHS according to the supplier s instructions. Anti human Fc antibody is diluted with 10 mM sodium acetate pH 4.0 to 50 g ml before injection at a flow rate of 5 l minute to achieve approximately 10000 response units RU of coupled protein. Following the injection of antibody 1 M ethanolamine is injected to block unreacted groups. For kinetics measurements anti BBB R antibody variants are injected in HBS P to reach about 220 RU then two fold serial dilutions of BBB R His 0.61 nM to 157 nM are injected in HBS P at 25 C. at a flow rate of approximately 30 l min. Association rates kon and dissociation rates koff are calculated using a simple one to one Langmuir binding model BIACORE Evaluation Software version 3.2 by simultaneously fitting the association and dissociation sensorgrams. The equilibrium dissociation constant Kd is calculated as the ratio koff kon. See e.g. Chen et al. 293 865 881 1999 .

A surrogate measurement for the affinity of one or more antibodies for the BBB R is its half maximal inhibitory concentration IC50 a measure of how much of the antibody is needed to inhibit the binding of a known BBB R ligand to the BBB R by 50 . Several methods of determining the IC50 for a given compound are art known a common approach is to perform a competition binding assay such as that described herein in the examples i.e. with regard to . In general a high IC50 indicates that more of the antibody is required to inhibit binding of the known ligand and thus that the antibody s affinity for that ligand is relatively low. Conversely a low IC50 indicates that less of the antibody is required to inhibit binding of the known ligand and thus that the antibody s affinity for that ligand is relatively high.

An exemplary competitive ELISA assay to measure IC50 is one in which increasing concentrations of anti TfR or anti TfR brain antigen i.e. anti TfR BACE1 anti TfR Abeta and the like variant antibodies are used to compete against biotinylated TfRfor binding to TfR. The anti TfR competition ELISA was performed in Maxisorp plates Neptune N.J. coated with 2.5 g ml of purified murine TfR extracellular domain in PBS at 4 C. overnight. Plates were washed with PBS 0.05 Tween 20 and blocked using Superblock blocking buffer in PBS Thermo Scientific Hudson N.H. . A titration of each individual anti TfR or anti TfR brain antigen i.e. anti TfR BACE1 or anti TfR Abeta 1 3 serial dilution was combined with biotinylated anti TfR 0.5 nM final concentration and added to the plate for 1 hour at room temperature. Plates were washed with PBS 0.05 Tween 20 and HRP streptavidin Southern Biotech Birmingham was added to the plate and incubated for 1 hour at room temperature. Plates were washed with PBS 0.05 Tween 20 and biotinylated anti TfRbound to the plate was detected using TMB substrate BioFX Laboratories Owings Mills .

In one embodiment the low affinity anti BBB R antibody herein is coupled with a label and or neurological disorder drug or imaging agent in order to more efficiently transport the label and or drug or imaging agent across the BBB. Such coupling can be achieved by chemical cross linkers or by generating fusion proteins etc.

Covalent conjugation can either be direct or via a linker. In certain embodiments direct conjugation is by construction of a protein fusion i.e. by genetic fusion of the two genes encoding BBB R antibody and neurological disorder drug and expression as a single protein . In certain embodiments direct conjugation is by formation of a covalent bond between a reactive group on one of the two portions of the anti BBB R antibody and a corresponding group or acceptor on the neurological drug. In certain embodiments direct conjugation is by modification i.e. genetic modification of one of the two molecules to be conjugated to include a reactive group as nonlimiting examples a sulfhydryl group or a carboxyl group that forms a covalent attachment to the other molecule to be conjugated under appropriate conditions. As one nonlimiting example a molecule i.e. an amino acid with a desired reactive group i.e. a cysteine residue may be introduced into e.g. the anti BBB R antibody and a disulfide bond formed with the neurological drug. Methods for covalent conjugation of nucleic acids to proteins are also known in the art i.e. photocrosslinking see e.g. Zatsepin et al. 74 77 95 2005 Non covalent conjugation can be by any noncovalent attachment means including hydrophobic bonds ionic bonds electrostatic interactions and the like as will be readily understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Conjugation may also be performed using a variety of linkers. For example an anti BBB R antibody and a neurological drug may be conjugated using a variety of bifunctional protein coupling agents such as N succinimidyl 3 2 pyridyldithio propionate SPDP succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate SMCC iminothiolane IT bifunctional derivatives of imidoesters such as dimethyl adipimidate HCl active esters such as disuccinimidyl suberate aldehydes such as glutaraldehyde bis azido compounds such as bis p azidobenzoyl hexanediamine bis diazonium derivatives such as bis p diazoniumbenzoyl ethylenediamine diisocyanates such as toluene 2 6 diisocyanate and bis active fluorine compounds such as 1 5 difluoro 2 4 dinitrobenzene . Peptide linkers comprised of from one to twenty amino acids joined by peptide bonds may also be used. In certain such embodiments the amino acids are selected from the twenty naturally occurring amino acids. In certain other such embodiments one or more of the amino acids are selected from glycine alanine proline asparagine glutamine and lysine. The linker may be a cleavable linker facilitating release of the neurological drug upon delivery to the brain. For example an acid labile linker peptidase sensitive linker photolabile linker dimethyl linker or disulfide containing linker Chari et al. 52 127 131 1992 U.S. Pat. No. 5 208 020 may be used.

The invention herein expressly contemplates but is not limited to conjugates prepared with cross linker reagents including but not limited to BMPS EMCS GMBS HBVS LC SMCC MBS MPBH SBAP SIA SIAB SMCC SMPB SMPH sulfo EMCS sulfo GMBS sulfo KMUS sulfo MBS sulfo SIAB sulfo SMCC and sulfo SMPB and SVSB succinimidyl 4 vinylsulfone benzoate which are commercially available e.g. from Pierce Biotechnology Inc. Rockford Ill. U.S.A. .

For a neuropathy disorder a neurological drug may be selected that is an analgesic including but not limited to a narcotic opioid analgesic i.e. morphine fentanyl hydrocodone meperidine methadone oxymorphone pentazocine propoxyphene tramadol codeine and oxycodone a nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drug NSAID i.e. ibuprofen naproxen diclofenac diflunisal etodolac fenoprofen flurbiprofen indomethacin ketorolac mefenamic acid meloxicam nabumetone oxaprozin piroxicam sulindac and tolmetin a corticosteroid i.e. cortisone prednisone prednisolone dexamethasone methylprednisolone and triamcinolone an anti migraine agent i.e. sumatriptin almotriptan frovatriptan sumatriptan rizatriptan eletriptan zolmitriptan dihydroergotamine eletriptan and ergotamine acetaminophen a salicylate i.e. aspirin choline salicylate magnesium salicylate diflunisal and salsalate a anti convulsant i.e. carbamazepine clonazepam gabapentin lamotrigine pregabalin tiagabine and topiramate an anaesthetic i.e. isoflurane trichloroethylene halothane sevoflurane benzocaine chloroprocaine cocaine cyclomethycaine dimethocaine propoxycaine procaine novocaine proparacaine tetracaine articaine bupivacaine carticaine cinchocaine etidocaine levobupivacaine lidocaine mepivacaine piperocaine prilocaine ropivacaine trimecaine saxitoxin and tetrodotoxin and a cox 2 inhibitor i.e. celecoxib rofecoxib and valdecoxib . For a neuropathy disorder with vertigo involvement a neurological drug may be selected that is an anti vertigo agent including but not limited to meclizine diphenhydramine promethazine and diazepam. For a neuropathy disorder with nausea involvement a neurological drug may be selected that is an anti nausea agent including but not limited to promethazine chlorpromazine prochlorperazine trimethobenzamide and metoclopramide. For a neurodegenerative disease a neurological drug may be selected that is a growth hormone or neurotrophic factor examples include but are not limited to brain derived neurotrophic factor BDNF nerve growth factor NGF neurotrophin 4 5 fibroblast growth factor FGF 2 and other FGFs neurotrophin NT 3 erythropoietin EPO hepatocyte growth factor HGF epidermal growth factor EGF transforming growth factor TGF alpha TGF beta vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF interleukin 1 receptor antagonist IL 1ra ciliary neurotrophic factor CNTF glial derived neurotrophic factor GDNF neurturin platelet derived growth factor PDGF heregulin neuregulin artemin persephin interleukins glial cell line derived neurotrophic factor GFR granulocyte colony stimulating factor CSF granulocyte macrophage CSF netrins cardiotrophin 1 hedgehogs leukemia inhibitory factor LW midkine pleiotrophin bone morphogenetic proteins BMPs netrins saposins semaphorins and stem cell factor SCF .

For cancer a neurological drug may be selected that is a chemotherapeutic agent. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine trietylenephosphoramide triethiylenethiophosphor amide and trimethylolomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone delta 9 tetrahydrocannabinol dronabinol MARINOL beta lapachone lapachol colchicines betulinic acid a camptothecin including the synthetic analogue topotecan HYCAMTIN CPT 11 irinotecan CAMPTOSAR acetylcamptothecin scopolectin and 9 aminocamptothecin bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogues podophyllotoxin podophyllinic acid teniposide cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogues KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine cholophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gamma1I and calicheamicin omegaI1 see e.g. Agnew Chem Intl. Ed. Engl. 33 183 186 1994 dynemicin including dynemicin A an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin carminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin including morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin potfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogues such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone eflornithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine ELDISINE FILDESIN dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C thiotepa taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rhone Poulenc Rorer Antony France chlorambucil gemcitabine GEMZAR 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine VELBAN platinum etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine ONCOVIN oxaliplatin leucovovin vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin ibandronate topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid capecitabine XELODA pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above as well as combinations of two or more of the above such as CHOP an abbreviation for a combined therapy of cyclophosphamide doxorubicin vincristine and prednisolone and FOLFOX an abbreviation for a treatment regimen with oxaliplatin ELOXATIN combined with 5 FU and leucovovin.

Also included in this definition of chemotherapeutic agents are anti hormonal agents that act to regulate reduce block or inhibit the effects of hormones that can promote the growth of cancer and are often in the form of systemic or whole body treatment. They may be hormones themselves. Examples include anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen EVISTA raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifene anti progesterones estrogen receptor down regulators ERDs agents that function to suppress or shut down the ovaries for example leutinizing hormone releasing hormone LHRH agonists such as LUPRON and ELIGARD leuprolide acetate goserelin acetate buserelin acetate and tripterelin other anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide and bicalutamide and aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole and ARIMIDEX anastrozole. In addition such definition of chemotherapeutic agents includes bisphosphonates such as clodronate for example BONEFOS or OSTAC DIDROCAL etidronate NE 58095 ZOMETA zoledronic acid zoledronate FOSAMAX alendronate AREDIA pamidronate SKELID tiludronate or ACTONEL risedronate as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog antisense oligonucleotides particularly those that inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Raf H Ras and epidermal growth factor receptor EGF R vaccines such as THERATOPE vaccine and gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN vaccine LEUVECTIN vaccine and VAXID vaccine LURTOTECAN topoisomerase 1 inhibitor ABARELIX rmRH lapatinib ditosylate an ErbB 2 and EGFR dual tyrosine kinase small molecule inhibitor also known as GW572016 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above.

Another group of compounds that may be selected as neurological drugs for cancer treatment or prevention are anti cancer immunoglobulins including but not limited to trastuzumab bevacizumab alemtuxumab cetuximab gemtuzumab ozogamicin ibritumomab tiuxetan panitumumab and rituximab . In some instances antibodies in conjunction with a toxic label may be used to target and kill desired cells i.e. cancer cells including but not limited to tositumomab with a I radiolabel.

For an ocular disease or disorder a neurological drug may be selected that is an anti angiogenic ophthalmic agent i.e. bevacizumab ranibizumab and pegaptanib an ophthalmic glaucoma agent i.e. carbachol epinephrine demecarium bromide apraclonidine brimonidine brinzolamide levobunolol timolol betaxolol dorzolamide bimatoprost carteolol metipranolol dipivefrin travoprost and latanoprost a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor i.e. methazolamide and acetazolamide an ophthalmic antihistamine i.e. naphazoline phenylephrine and tetrahydrozoline an ocular lubricant an ophthalmic steroid i.e. fluorometholone prednisolone loteprednol dexamethasone difluprednate rimexolone fluocinolone medrysone and triamcinolone an ophthalmic anesthetic i.e. lidocaine proparacaine and tetracaine an ophthalmic anti infective i.e. levofloxacin gatifloxacin ciprofloxacin moxifloxacin chloramphenicol bacitracin polymyxin b sulfacetamide tobramycin azithromycin besifloxacin norfloxacin sulfisoxazole gentamicin idoxuridine erythromycin natamycin gramicidin neomycin ofloxacin trifluridine ganciclovir vidarabine an ophthalmic anti inflammatory agent i.e. nepafenac ketorolac flurbiprofen suprofen cyclosporine triamcinolone diclofenac and bromfenac and an ophthalmic antihistamine or decongestant i.e. ketotifen olopatadine epinastine naphazoline cromolyn tetrahydrozoline pemirolast bepotastine naphazoline phenylephrine nedocromil lodoxamide phenylephrine emedastine and azelastine .

For a seizure disorder a neurological drug may be selected that is an anticonvulsant or antiepileptic including but not limited to barbiturate anticonvulsants i.e. primidone metharbital mephobarbital allobarbital amobarbital aprobarbital alphenal barbital brallobarbital and phenobarbital benzodiazepine anticonvulsants i.e. diazepam clonazepam and lorazepam carbamate anticonvulsants i.e. felbamate carbonic anhydrase inhibitor anticonvulsants i.e. acetazolamide topiramate and zonisamide dibenzazepine anticonvulsants i.e. rufinamide carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine fatty acid derivative anticonvulsants i.e. divalproex and valproic acid gamma aminobutyric acid analogs i.e. pregabalin gabapentin and vigabatrin gamma aminobutyric acid reuptake inhibitors i.e. tiagabine gamma aminobutyric acid transaminase inhibitors i.e. vigabatrin hydantoin anticonvulsants i.e. phenytoin ethotoin fosphenytoin and mephenytoin miscellaneous anticonvulsants i.e. lacosamide and magnesium sulfate progestins i.e. progesterone oxazolidinedione anticonvulsants i.e. paramethadione and trimethadione pyrrolidine anticonvulsants i.e. levetiracetam succinimide anticonvulsants i.e. ethosuximide and methsuximide triazine anticonvulsants i.e. lamotrigine and urea anticonvulsants i.e. phenacemide and pheneturide .

For a lysosomal storage disease a neurological drug may be selected that is itself or otherwise mimics the activity of the enzyme that is impaired in the disease. Exemplary recombinant enzymes for the treatment of lysosomal storage disorders include but are not limited to those set forth in e.g. U.S. Patent Application publication no. 2005 0142141 i.e. alpha L iduronidase iduronate 2 sulphatase N sulfatase alpha N acetylglucosaminidase N acetyl galactosamine 6 sulfatase beta galactosidase arylsulphatase B beta glucuronidase acid alpha glucosidase glucocerebrosidase alpha galactosidase A hexosaminidase A acid sphingomyelinase beta galactocerebrosidase beta galactosidase arylsulfatase A acid ceramidase aspartoacylase palmitoyl protein thioesterase 1 and tripeptidyl amino peptidase 1 .

For amyloidosis a neurological drug may be selected that includes but is not limited to an antibody or other binding molecule including but not limited to a small molecule a peptide an aptamer or other protein binder that specifically binds to a target selected from beta secretase tau presenilin amyloid precursor protein or portions thereof amyloid beta peptide or oligomers or fibrils thereof death receptor 6 DR6 receptor for advanced glycation endproducts RAGE parkin and huntingtin a cholinesterase inhibitor i.e. galantamine donepezil rivastigmine and tacrine an NMDA receptor antagonist i.e. memantine a monoamine depletor i.e. tetrabenazine an ergoloid mesylate an anticholinergic antiparkinsonism agent i.e. procyclidine diphenhydramine trihexylphenidyl benztropine biperiden and trihexyphenidyl a dopaminergic antiparkinsonism agent i.e. entacapone selegiline pramipexole bromocriptine rotigotine selegiline ropinirole rasagiline apomorphine carbidopa levodopa pergolide tolcapone and amantadine a tetrabenazine an anti inflammatory including but not limited to a nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drug i.e. indomethicin and other compounds listed above a hormone i.e. estrogen progesterone and leuprolide a vitamin i.e. folate and nicotinamide a dimebolin a homotaurine i.e. 3 aminopropanesulfonic acid 3APS a serotonin receptor activity modulator i.e. xaliproden an an interferon and a glucocorticoid.

For a viral or microbial disease a neurological drug may be selected that includes but is not limited to an antiviral compound including but not limited to an adamantane antiviral i.e. rimantadine and amantadine an antiviral interferon i.e. peginterferon alfa 2b a chemokine receptor antagonist i.e. maraviroc an integrase strand transfer inhibitor i.e. raltegravir a neuraminidase inhibitor i.e. oseltamivir and zanamivir a non nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor i.e. efavirenz etravirine delavirdine and nevirapine a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors tenofovir abacavir lamivudine zidovudine stavudine entecavir emtricitabine adefovir zalcitabine telbivudine and didanosine a protease inhibitor i.e. darunavir atazanavir fosamprenavir tipranavir ritonavir nelfinavir amprenavir indinavir and saquinavir a purine nucleoside i.e. valacyclovir famciclovir acyclovir ribavirin ganciclovir valganciclovir and cidofovir and a miscellaneous antiviral i.e. enfuvirtide foscarnet palivizumab and fomivirsen an antibiotic including but not limited to an aminopenicillin i.e. amoxicillin ampicillin oxacillin nafcillin cloxacillin dicloxacillin flucoxacillin temocillin azlocillin carbenicillin ticarcillin mezlocillin piperacillin and bacampicillin a cephalosporin i.e. cefazolin cephalexin cephalothin cefamandole ceftriaxone cefotaxime cefpodoxime ceftazidime cefadroxil cephradine loracarbef cefotetan cefuroxime cefprozil cefaclor and cefoxitin a carbapenem penem i.e. imipenem meropenem ertapenem faropenem and doripenem a monobactam i.e. aztreonam tigemonam norcardicin A and tabtoxinine beta lactam a beta lactamase inhibitor i.e. clavulanic acid tazobactam and sulbactam in conjunction with another beta lactam antibiotic an aminoglycoside i.e. amikacin gentamicin kanamycin neomycin netilmicin streptomycin tobramycin and paromomycin an ansamycin i.e. geldanamycin and herbimycin a carbacephem i.e. loracarbef a glycopeptides i.e. teicoplanin and vancomycin a macrolide i.e. azithromycin clarithromycin dirithromycin erythromycin roxithromycin troleandomycin telithromycin and spectinomycin a monobactam i.e. aztreonam a quinolone i.e. ciprofloxacin enoxacin gatifloxacin levofloxacin lomefloxacin moxifloxacin norfloxacin ofloxacin trovafloxacin grepafloxacin sparfloxacin and temafloxacin a sulfonamide i.e. mafenide sulfonamidochrysoidine sulfacetamide sulfadiazine sulfamethizole sulfanilamide sulfasalazine sulfisoxazole trimethoprim trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole a tetracycline i.e. tetracycline demeclocycline doxycycline minocycline and oxytetracycline an antineoplastic or cytotoxic antibiotic i.e. doxorubicin mitoxantrone bleomycin daunorubicin dactinomycin epirubicin idarubicin plicamycin mitomycin pentostatin and valrubicin and a miscellaneous antibacterial compound i.e. bacitracin colistin and polymyxin B an antifungal i.e. metronidazole nitazoxanide tinidazole chloroquine iodoquinol and paromomycin and an antiparasitic including but not limited to quinine chloroquine amodiaquine pyrimethamine sulphadoxine proguanil mefloquine atovaquone primaquine artemesinin halofantrine doxycycline clindamycin mebendazole pyrantel pamoate thiabendazole diethylcarbamazine ivermectin rifampin amphotericin B melarsoprol efornithine and albendazole .

For ischemia a neurological drug may be selected that includes but is not limited to a thrombolytic i.e. urokinase alteplase reteplase and tenecteplase a platelet aggregation inhibitor i.e. aspirin cilostazol clopidogrel prasugrel and dipyridamole a statin i.e. lovastatin pravastatin fluvastatin rosuvastatin atorvastatin simvastatin cerivastatin and pitavastatin and a compound to improve blood flow or vascular flexibility including e.g. blood pressure medications.

For a behavioral disorder a neurological drug may be selected from a behavior modifying compound including but not limited to an atypical antipsychotic i.e. risperidone olanzapine apripiprazole quetiapine paliperidone asenapine clozapine iloperidone and ziprasidone a phenothiazine antipsychotic i.e. prochlorperazine chlorpromazine fluphenazine perphenazine trifluoperazine thioridazine and mesoridazine a thioxanthene i.e. thiothixene a miscellaneous antipsychotic i.e. pimozide lithium molindone haloperidol and loxapine a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor i.e. citalopram escitalopram paroxetine fluoxetine and sertraline a serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor i.e. duloxetine venlafaxine desvenlafaxine a tricyclic antidepressant i.e. doxepin clomipramine amoxapine nortriptyline amitriptyline trimipramine imipramine protriptyline and desipramine a tetracyclic antidepressant i.e. mirtazapine and maprotiline a phenylpiperazine antidepressant i.e. trazodone and nefazodone a monoamine oxidase inhibitor i.e. isocarboxazid phenelzine selegiline and tranylcypromine a benzodiazepine i.e. alprazolam estazolam flurazeptam clonazepam lorazepam and diazepam a norepinephrine dopamine reuptake inhibitor i.e. bupropion a CNS stimulant i.e. phentermine diethylpropion methamphetamine dextroamphetamine amphetamine methylphenidate dexmethylphenidate lisdexamfetamine modafinil pemoline phendimetrazine benzphetamine phendimetrazine armodafinil diethylpropion caffeine atomoxetine doxapram and mazindol an anxiolytic sedative hypnotic including but not limited to a barbiturate i.e. secobarbital phenobarbital and mephobarbital a benzodiazepine as described above and a miscellaneous anxiolytic sedative hypnotic i.e. diphenhydramine sodium oxybate zaleplon hydroxyzine chloral hydrate aolpidem buspirone doxepin eszopiclone ramelteon meprobamate and ethclorvynol a secretin see e.g. Ratliff Schaub et al. 9 256 265 2005 an opioid peptide see e.g. Cowen et al. 89 273 285 2004 and a neuropeptide see e.g. Hethwa et al. 289 E301 305 2005 .

For CNS inflammation a neurological drug may be selected that addresses the inflammation itself i.e. a nonsteroidal anti inflammatory agent such as ibuprofen or naproxen or one which treats the underlying cause of the inflammation i.e. an anti viral or anti cancer agent .

According to one embodiment of the invention the coupling is achieved by generating a multispecific antibody e.g. a bispecific antibody . Multispecific antibodies are monoclonal antibodies that have binding specificities for at least two different sites. In one embodiment the multispecific antibody comprises a first antigen binding site which binds the BBB R and a second antigen binding site which binds a brain antigen such as beta secretase 1 BACE1 or Abeta and the other brain antigens disclosed herein.

An exemplary brain antigen bound by such multispecific bispecific antibody is BACE1 and an exemplary antibody binding thereto is the YW412.8.31 antibody in herein.

In another embodiment the brain antigen is Abeta exemplary such antibodies being described in WO2007068412 WO2008011348 WO20080156622 and WO2008156621 expressly incorporated herein by reference with an exemplary Abeta antibody comprising IgG4 MABT5102A antibody comprising the heavy and light chain amino acid sequences in respectively.

Techniques for making multispecific antibodies include but are not limited to recombinant co expression of two immunoglobulin heavy chain light chain pairs having different specificities see Milstein and Cuello 305 537 1983 WO 93 08829 and Traunecker et al. 10 3655 1991 and knob in hole engineering see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 731 168 . Multi specific antibodies may also be made by engineering electrostatic steering effects for making antibody Fc heterodimeric molecules WO 2009 089004A1 cross linking two or more antibodies or fragments see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 676 980 and Brennan et al. 229 81 1985 using leucine zippers to produce bi specific antibodies see e.g. Kostelny et al. 148 5 1547 1553 1992 using diabody technology for making bispecific antibody fragments see e.g. Hollinger et al. 90 6444 6448 1993 and using single chain Fv sFv dimers see e.g. Gruber et al. 152 5368 1994 and preparing trispecific antibodies as described e.g. in Tutt et al. J. Immunol. 147 60 1991 .

Engineered antibodies with three or more functional antigen binding sites including Octopus antibodies or dual variable domain immunoglobulins DVDs are also included herein see e.g. US 2006 0025576A1 and Wu et al. 2007 .

The antibody or fragment herein also includes a Dual Acting FAb or DAF comprising an antigen binding site that binds to the BBB R e.g. TfR as well as the brain antigen e.g. BACE1 see US 2008 0069820 for example .

In another embodiment the antibody is an intact or full length antibody. Depending on the amino acid sequence of the constant domain of their heavy chains intact antibodies can be assigned to different classes. There are five major classes of intact antibodies IgA IgD IgE IgG and IgM and several of these may be further divided into subclasses isotypes e.g. IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA and IgA2. The heavy chain constant domains that correspond to the different classes of antibodies are called and respectively. The subunit structures and three dimensional configurations of different classes of immunoglobulins are well known. In one embodiment the intact antibody lacks effector function.

Techniques for generating antibodies are known and examples provided above in the definitions section of this document. In one embodiment the antibody is a chimeric humanized or human antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof.

Various techniques are available for determining binding of the antibody to the BBB R. One such assay is an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA for confirming an ability to bind to human BBB R and brain antigen . According to this assay plates coated with antigen e.g. recombinant sBBB R are incubated with a sample comprising the anti BBB R antibody and binding of the antibody to the antigen of interest is determined.

In one aspect an antibody of the invention is tested for its antigen binding activity e.g. by known methods such as ELISA Western blot etc.

Assays for evaluating uptake of systemically administered antibody and other biological activity of the antibody can be performed as disclosed in the examples or as known for the anti brain antigen antibody of interest.

Competition assays may be used to identify an antibody that competes with any of the antibodies or Fabs descried herein for example YW412.8 YW412.8.31 YW412.8.30 YW412.8.2 YW412.8.29 YW412.8.51 Fab12 LC6 LC9 LC10 for binding to BACE1. In certain embodiments such a competing antibody binds to the same epitope e.g. a linear or a conformational epitope that is bound by any of the antibodies or Fabs descried herein for example YW412.8 YW412.8.31 YW412.8.30 YW412.8.2 YW412.8.29 YW412.8.51 Fab12 LC6 LC9 LC10. Detailed exemplary methods for mapping an epitope to which an antibody binds are provided in Morris 1996 Epitope Mapping Protocols in vol. 66 Humana Press Totowa N.J. .

In an exemplary competition assay immobilized BACE1 is incubated in a solution comprising a first labeled antibody that binds to BACE1 e.g. YW412.8 YW412.8.31 YW412.8.30 YW412.8.2 YW412.8.29 YW412.8.51 Fab12 LC6 LC9 LC10 and a second unlabeled antibody that is being tested for its ability to compete with the first antibody for binding to BACE1. The second antibody may be present in a hybridoma supernatant. As a control immobilized BACE1 is incubated in a solution comprising the first labeled antibody but not the second unlabeled antibody. After incubation under conditions permissive for binding of the first antibody to BACE1 excess unbound antibody is removed and the amount of label associated with immobilized BACE1 is measured. If the amount of label associated with immobilized BACE1 is substantially reduced in the test sample relative to the control sample then that indicates that the second antibody is competing with the first antibody for binding to BACE1. See Harlow and Lane 1988 ch. 14 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. .

In one aspect assays are provided for identifying anti BACE1 antibodies thereof having biological activity. Biological activity may include e.g. inhibition of BACE1 aspartyl protease activity. Antibodies having such biological activity in vivo and or in vitro are also provided e.g. as evaluated by homogeneous time resolved fluorescence HTRF assay or a microfluidic capillary electrophoretic MCE assay using synthetic substrate peptides or in vivo in cell lines which express BACE1 substrates such as APP.

The antibody including the multispecific antibody herein is optionally recombinantly produced in a host cell transformed with nucleic acid sequences encoding its heavy and light chains e.g. where the host cell has been transformed by one or more vectors with the nucleic acid therein . The host cell is optionally a mammalian cell for example a Chinese Hamster Ovary CHO cell.

Therapeutic formulations of the antibodies used in accordance with the present invention are prepared for storage by mixing an antibody having the desired degree of purity with optional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers excipients or stabilizers 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 in the form of lyophilized formulations or aqueous solutions. Acceptable carriers excipients or stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG .

The formulation herein may also contain more than one active compound as necessary optionally those with complementary activities that do not adversely affect each other. The type and effective amounts of such medicaments depend for example on the amount of antibody present in the formulation and clinical parameters of the subjects. Exemplary such medicaments are discussed below.

The active ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 .

Sustained release preparations may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semi permeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing the antibody which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinylalcohol polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 copolymers of L glutamic acid and ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

The formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile. This is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes.

The anti BBB R antibodies including multispecific antibodies comprising them may be utilized in a variety of in vivo methods. For example the invention provides a method of transporting a therapeutic compound across the blood brain barrier comprising exposing the anti BBB R antibody coupled to a therapeutic compound e.g. a multispecific antibody which binds both the BBB R and a brain antigen to the BBB such that the antibody transports the therapeutic compound coupled thereto across the BBB. In another example the invention provides a method of transporting a neurological disorder drug across the blood brain barrier comprising exposing the anti BBB R antibody coupled to a brain disorder drug e.g. a multispecific antibody which binds both the BBB R and a brain antigen to the BBB such that the antibody transports the neurological disorder drug coupled thereto across the BBB. In one embodiment the BBB here is in a mammal e.g. a human e.g. one which has a neurological disorder including without limitation Alzheimer s disease AD stroke dementia muscular dystrophy MD multiple sclerosis MS amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS cystic fibrosis Angelman s syndrome Liddle syndrome Parkinson s disease Pick s disease Paget s disease cancer traumatic brain injury etc.

In one embodiment neurological disorder is selected from a neuropathy amyloidosis cancer e.g. involving the CNS or brain an ocular disease or disorder a viral or microbial infection inflammation e.g. of the CNS or brain ischemia neurodegenerative disease seizure behavioral disorder lysosomal storage disease etc.

Neuropathy disorders are diseases or abnormalities of the nervous system characterized by inappropriate or uncontrolled nerve signaling or lack thereof and include but are not limited to chronic pain including nociceptive pain pain caused by an injury to body tissues including cancer related pain neuropathic pain pain caused by abnormalities in the nerves spinal cord or brain and psychogenic pain entirely or mostly related to a psychological disorder headache migraine neuropathy and symptoms and syndromes often accompanying such neuropathy disorders such as vertigo or nausea.

Amyloidoses are a group of diseases and disorders associated with extracellular proteinaceous deposits in the CNS including but not limited to secondary amyloidosis age related amyloidosis Alzheimer s Disease AD mild cognitive impairment MCI Lewy body dementia Down s syndrome hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis Dutch type the Guam Parkinson Dementia complex cerebral amyloid angiopathy Huntington s disease progressive supranuclear palsy multiple sclerosis Creutzfeld Jacob disease Parkinson s disease transmissible spongiform encephalopathy HIV related dementia amyotropic lateral sclerosis ALS inclusion body myositis IBM and ocular diseases relating to beta amyloid deposition i.e. macular degeneration drusen related optic neuropathy and cataract .

Cancers of the CNS are characterized by aberrant proliferation of one or more CNS cell i.e. a neural cell and include but are not limited to glioma glioblastoma multiforme meningioma astrocytoma acoustic neuroma chondroma oligodendroglioma medulloblastomas ganglioglioma Schwannoma neurofibroma neuroblastoma and extradural intramedullary or intradural tumors.

Ocular diseases or disorders are diseases or disorders of the eye which for the purposes herein is considered a CNS organ subject to the BBB. Ocular diseases or disorders include but are not limited to disorders of sclera cornea iris and ciliary body i.e. scleritis keratitis corneal ulcer corneal abrasion snow blindness arc eye Thygeson s superficial punctate keratopathy corneal neovascularisation Fuchs dystrophy keratoconus keratoconjunctivitis sicca iritis and uveitis disorders of the lens i.e. cataract disorders of choroid and retina i.e. retinal detachment retinoschisis hypertensive retinopathy diabetic retinopathy retinopathy retinopathy of prematurity age related macular degeneration macular degeneration wet or dry epiretinal membrane retinitis pigmentosa and macular edema glaucoma floaters disorders of optic nerve and visual pathways i.e. Leber s hereditary optic neuropathy and optic disc drusen disorders of ocular muscles binocular movement accommodation refraction i.e. strabismus ophthalmoparesis progressive external opthalmoplegia esotropia exotropia hypermetropia myopia astigmatism anisometropia presbyopia and ophthalmoplegia visual disturbances and blindness i.e. amblyopia Lever s congenital amaurosis scotoma color blindness achromatopsia nyctalopia blindness river blindness and micro opthalmia coloboma red eye Argyll Robertson pupil keratomycosis xerophthalmia and andaniridia.

Viral or microbial infections of the CNS include but are not limited to infections by viruses i.e. influenza HIV poliovirus rubella bacteria i.e. sp. sp. sp. sp. sp. sp. sp. and and other microorganisms such as fungi i.e. yeast parasites i.e. or amoebas resulting in CNS pathophysiologies including but not limited to meningitis encephalitis myelitis vasculitis and abscess which can be acute or chronic.

Inflammation of the CNS is inflammation that is caused by an injury to the CNS which can be a physical injury i.e. due to accident surgery brain trauma spinal cord injury concussion or an injury due to or related to one or more other diseases or disorders of the CNS i.e. abscess cancer viral or microbial infection .

Ischemia of the CNS as used herein refers to a group of disorders relating to aberrant blood flow or vascular behavior in the brain or the causes therefor and includes but is not limited to focal brain ischemia global brain ischemia stroke i.e. subarachnoid hemorrhage and intracerebral hemorrhage and aneurysm.

Neurodegenerative diseases are a group of diseases and disorders associated with neural cell loss of function or death in the CNS and include but are not limited to adrenoleukodystrophy Alexander s disease Alper s disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ataxia telangiectasia Batten disease cockayne syndrome corticobasal degeneration degeneration caused by or associated with an amyloidosis Friedreich s ataxia frontotemporal lobar degeneration Kennedy s disease multiple system atrophy multiple sclerosis primary lateral sclerosis progressive supranuclear palsy spinal muscular atrophy transverse myelitis Refsum s disease and spinocerebellar ataxia.

Seizure diseases and disorders of the CNS involve inappropriate and or abnormal electrical conduction in the CNS and include but are not limited to epilepsy i.e. absence seizures atonic seizures benign Rolandic epilepsy childhood absence clonic seizures complex partial seizures frontal lobe epilepsy febrile seizures infantile spasms juvenile myoclonic epilepsy juvenile absence epilepsy Lennox Gastaut syndrome Landau Kleffner Syndrome Dravet s syndrome Otahara syndrome West syndrome myoclonic seizures mitochondrial disorders progressive myoclonic epilepsies psychogenic seizures reflex epilepsy Rasmussen s Syndrome simple partial seizures secondarily generalized seizures temporal lobe epilepsy toniclonic seizures tonic seizures psychomotor seizures limbic epilepsy partial onset seizures generalized onset seizures status epilepticus abdominal epilepsy akinetic seizures autonomic seizures massive bilateral myoclonus catamenial epilepsy drop seizures emotional seizures focal seizures gelastic seizures Jacksonian March Lafora Disease motor seizures multifocal seizures nocturnal seizures photosensitive seizure pseudo seizures sensory seizures subtle seizures sylvan seizures withdrawal seizures and visual reflex seizures .

Behavioral disorders are disorders of the CNS characterized by aberrant behavior on the part of the afflicted subject and include but are not limited to sleep disorders i.e. insomnia parasomnias night terrors circadian rhythm sleep disorders and narcolepsy mood disorders i.e. depression suicidal depression anxiety chronic affective disorders phobias panic attacks obsessive compulsive disorder attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD attention deficit disorder ADD chronic fatigue syndrome agoraphobia post traumatic stress disorder bipolar disorder eating disorders i.e. anorexia or bulimia psychoses developmental behavioral disorders i.e. autism Rett s syndrome Aspberger s syndrome personality disorders and psychotic disorders i.e. schizophrenia delusional disorder and the like .

Lysosomal storage disorders are metabolic disorders which are in some cases associated with the CNS or have CNS specific symptoms such disorders include but are not limited to Tay Sachs disease Gaucher s disease Fabry disease mucopolysaccharidosis types I II III IV V VI and VII glycogen storage disease GM1 gangliosidosis metachromatic leukodystrophy Farber s disease Canavan s leukodystrophy and neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses types 1 and 2 Niemann Pick disease Pompe disease and Krabbe s disease.

In one aspect the antibody is used to detect a neurological disorder before the onset of symptoms and or to assess the severity or duration of the disease or disorder. In one aspect the antibody permits detection and or imaging of the neurological disorder including imaging by radiography tomography or magnetic resonance imaging MRI .

In one aspect a low affinity anti BBB R antibody for use as a medicament is provided. In further aspects a low affinity anti BBB R antibody for use in treating a neurological disease or disorder is provided e.g. Alzheimer s disease . In certain embodiments a low affinity anti BBB R antibody for use in a method of treatment is provided. In certain embodiments the invention provides a low affinity anti BBB R antibody for use in a method of treating an individual having a neurological disease or disorder comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of the anti BBB R antibody optionally coupled to a neurological disorder drug . In one such embodiment the method further comprises administering to the individual an effective amount of at least one additional therapeutic agent. In further embodiments the invention provides an anti BBB R antibody for use in reducing or inhibiting amyloid plaque formation in a patient at risk or suffering from a neurological disease or disorder e.g. Alzheimer s disease . An individual according to any of the above embodiments is optionally a human. In certain aspect the anti BBB R antibody for use in the methods of the invention improves uptake of the neurological disorder drug with which it is coupled.

In a further aspect the invention provides for the use of a low affinity anti BBB R antibody in the manufacture or preparation of a medicament. In one embodiment the medicament is for treatment of neurological disease or disorder. In a further embodiment the medicament is for use in a method of treating neurological disease or disorder comprising administering to an individual having neurological disease or disorder an effective amount of the medicament. In one such embodiment the method further comprises administering to the individual an effective amount of at least one additional therapeutic agent.

In a further aspect the invention provides a method for treating Alzheimer s disease. In one embodiment the method comprises administering to an individual having Alzheimer s disease an effective amount of a multispecific antibody which binds both BACE1 and TfR. In one such embodiment the method further comprises administering to the individual an effective amount of at least one additional therapeutic agent. An individual according to any of the above embodiments may be a human.

The anti BBB R antibodies of the invention can be used either alone or in combination with other agents in a therapy. For instance the anti BBB R antibody of the invention may be co administered with at least one additional therapeutic agent. In certain embodiments an additional therapeutic agent is a therapeutic agent effective to treat the same or a different neurological disorder as the anti BBB R antibody is being employed to treat. Exemplary additional therapeutic agents include but are not limited to the various neurological drugs described above cholinesterase inhibitors such as donepezil galantamine rovastigmine and tacrine NMDA receptor antagonists such as memantine amyloid beta peptide aggregation inhibitors antioxidants secretase modulators nerve growth factor NGF mimics or NGF gene therapy PPAR agonists HMS CoA reductase inhibitors statins ampakines calcium channel blockers GABA receptor antagonists glycogen synthase kinase inhibitors intravenous immunoglobulin muscarinic receptor agonists nicrotinic receptor modulators active or passive amyloid beta peptide immunization phosphodiesterase inhibitors serotonin receptor antagonists and anti amyloid beta peptide antibodies. In certain embodiments the at least one additional therapeutic agent is selected for its ability to mitigate one or more side effects of the neurological drug.

Such combination therapies noted above encompass combined administration where two or more therapeutic agents are included in the same or separate formulations and separate administration in which case administration of the antibody of the invention can occur prior to simultaneously and or following administration of the additional therapeutic agent and or adjuvant. Antibodies of the invention can also be used in combination with other interventional therapies such as but not limited to radiation therapy behavioral therapy or other therapies known in the art and appropriate for the neurological disorder to be treated or prevented.

The anti BBB R antibody of the invention and any additional therapeutic agent can be administered by any suitable means including parenteral intrapulmonary and intranasal and if desired for local treatment intralesional administration. Parenteral infusions include intramuscular intravenous intraarterial intraperitoneal or subcutaneous administration. Dosing can be by any suitable route e.g. by injections such as intravenous or subcutaneous injections depending in part on whether the administration is brief or chronic. Various dosing schedules including but not limited to single or multiple administrations over various time points bolus administration and pulse infusion are contemplated herein.

Lipid based methods of transporting the antibody or fragment thereof across the blood brain barrier include but are not limited to encapsulating the antibody or fragment thereof in liposomes that are coupled to antibody binding fragments that bind to receptors on the vascular endothelium of the blood brain barrier see e.g. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20020025313 and coating the antibody or active fragment thereof in low density lipoprotein particles see e.g. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20040204354 or apolipoprotein E see e.g. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20040131692 .

Antibodies of the invention would be formulated dosed and administered in a fashion consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in this context include the particular disorder being treated the particular mammal being treated the clinical condition of the individual patient the cause of the disorder the site of delivery of the agent the method of administration the scheduling of administration and other factors known to medical practitioners. The antibody need not be but is optionally formulated with one or more agents currently used to prevent or treat the disorder in question. The effective amount of such other agents depends on the amount of antibody present in the formulation the type of disorder or treatment and other factors discussed above. These are generally used in the same dosages and with administration routes as described herein or about from 1 to 99 of the dosages described herein or in any dosage and by any route that is empirically clinically determined to be appropriate.

For the prevention or treatment of disease the appropriate dosage of an antibody of the invention when used alone or in combination with one or more other additional therapeutic agents will depend on the type of disease to be treated the type of antibody the severity and course of the disease whether the antibody is administered for preventive or therapeutic purposes previous therapy the patient s clinical history and response to the antibody and the discretion of the attending physician. The antibody is suitably administered to the patient at one time or over a series of treatments. Depending on the type and severity of the disease about 1 g kg to 15 mg kg e.g. 0.1 mg kg 10 mg kg of antibody can be an initial candidate dosage for administration to the patient whether for example by one or more separate administrations or by continuous infusion. One typical daily dosage might range from about 1 g kg to 100 mg kg or more depending on the factors mentioned above. For repeated administrations over several days or longer depending on the condition the treatment would generally be sustained until a desired suppression of disease symptoms occurs. One exemplary dosage of the antibody would be in the range from about 0.05 mg kg to about 10 mg kg. Thus one or more doses of about 0.5 mg kg 2.0 mg kg 4.0 mg kg or 10 mg kg or any combination thereof may be administered to the patient. Such doses may be administered intermittently e.g. every week or every three weeks e.g. such that the patient receives from about two to about twenty or e.g. about six doses of the antibody . An initial higher loading dose followed by one or more lower doses may be administered. However other dosage regimens may be useful. The progress of this therapy is easily monitored by conventional techniques and assays.

It is understood that any of the above formulations or therapeutic methods may be carried out using an immunoconjugate of the invention in place of or in addition to an anti BBB R antibody.

In another aspect of the invention an article of manufacture containing materials useful for the treatment prevention and or diagnosis of the disorders described above is provided. The article of manufacture comprises a container and a label or package insert on or associated with the container. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes IV solution bags etc. The containers may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container holds a composition which is by itself or combined with another composition effective for treating preventing and or diagnosing the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . At least one active agent in the composition is an antibody of the invention. The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating the condition of choice. Moreover the article of manufacture may comprise a a first container with a composition contained therein wherein the composition comprises an antibody of the invention and b a second container with a composition contained therein wherein the composition comprises a further cytotoxic or otherwise therapeutic agent. The article of manufacture in this embodiment of the invention may further comprise a package insert indicating that the compositions can be used to treat a particular condition. Alternatively or additionally the article of manufacture may further comprise a second or third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

It is understood that any of the above articles of manufacture may include an immunoconjugate of the invention in place of or in addition to an anti BBB R antibody.

The article of manufacture optionally further comprises a package insert with instructions for treating a neurological disorder in a subject wherein the instructions indicate that treatment with the antibody as disclosed herein treats the neurological disorder and optionally indicates that the antibody has improved uptake across the BBB due to its low affinity for the BBB R.

This example evaluated the transferrin receptor TfR which mediates iron transport into the brain via the holo transferrin complex Skarlatos et al. 683 164 171 1995 . A human chimeric anti murine transferrin receptor anti TfR antibody that does not compete with endogenous transferrin binding to TfR was compared to a human control IgG in a double labeled experiment for uptake in wild type mouse brain. A single trace dose approximately 50 g kg of I anti TfRand I control IgG was injected into wild type mice intravenously i.v. and brain uptake was measured at 5 min. 0.5 1 4 24 48 and 72 hours. A significant increase in I anti TfRuptake in the brain measured as a percentage of injected dose per gram of brain was observed at all time points . At its peak 1 hour after injection there was a 11 fold difference in I anti TfRbrain accumulation as compared to I control IgG n 6 . If unlabeled anti TfR 4 mg kg body weight was also co administered brain accumulation of I anti TfRwas nearly reduced to the level of control IgG indicating specific target driven uptake.

To evaluate whether significant antibody uptake in brain also occurs at therapeutic dose levels wild type mice were administered either anti TfRor control IgG at 20 mg kg intravenously i.v. . Human antibody concentration in the cortex and serum was determined 1 and 24 hours after injection using a human Fc sandwich ELISA. Briefly after the indicated time of administration mice were perfused with D PBS at a rate of 2 ml min. for 8 minutes. Brains were extracted and the cortex and hippocampus were isolated homogenized in 1 NP 40 Cal Biochem in PBS containing Complete Mini EDTA free protease inhibitor cocktail tablets Roche Diagnostics . Homogenized brain samples were rotated at 4 C. for 1 hour before centrifugation at 14 000 rpm for 20 minutes. The supernatant was isolated for brain antibody measurement. Whole blood was collected prior to perfusion in serum separator microcontainer tubes BD Diagnostics allowed to clot for at least 30 minutes and spun down at 5 000 g for 90 seconds. The supernatant was isolated for serum antibody measurements. Antibody concentrations in mouse serum and brain samples were measured by ELISA. NUNC 384 well Maxisorp immunoplates Neptune N.J. were coated with F ab 2 fragment of donkey anti human IgG Fc fragment specific polyclonal antibody Jackson ImmunoResearch West Grove Pa. overnight at 4 C. Plates were blocked with PBS containing 0.5 BSA for 1 hour at 25 C. Each antibody was used as an internal standard to quantify respective antibody concentration. Plates were washed with PBS containing 0.05 Tween 20 using a microplate washer Bio Tek Instruments Inc. Winooski Vt. . Standards and samples were diluted in PBS containing 0.5 BSA 0.35 M NaCl 0.25 CHAPS 5 mM EDTA 0.05 Tween 20 and 15 ppm Proclin and were added to the microplate for two hours at 25 C. Bound antibody was detected with horseradish peroxidase conjugated F ab 2 goat anti human IgG Fc specific polyclonal antibody Jackson ImmunoResearch developed using 3 3 5 5 tetramethyl benzidine TMB KPL Inc. Gaithersburg Md. and absorbance measured at 450 nm on a Multiskan Ascent reader Thermo Scientific Hudson N.H. . Concentrations were determined from the standard curve using a four parameter non linear regression program. The assay had lower limit of quantification LLOQ values of 3.12 ng ml in serum and 15.6 ng g in brain. Statistical analysis of differences between experimental groups was performed using a two tailed unpaired t test.

Compared to control IgG concentration of anti TfRwas significantly higher in the brain 24 hours after antibody administration p 0.0002 n 10 . Additionally human IgG concentration in brain was 2.5 fold higher compared to serum for anti TfRcompared to control IgG at 24 hours p 0.003 n 10 . Together with the radiolabeled trace data these results indicate that systemically administered anti TfRcan accumulate in the brain however the tissue distribution of antibody in brain remained to be understood.

To address the distribution of systemically administered antibodies in brain wild type mice were injected 20 mg kg i.v. with either anti TfRor control IgG perfused with PBS to flush out any remaining circulating antibody and brain sections were stained with fluorescent anti human secondary IgG to determine antibody localization. After 1 hour of circulation anti TfRhad a pronounced vascular distribution as indicated by its co localization with the basement membrane marker anti collagen IV left column . Although less pronounced control IgG also localized to the vasculature indicating that after 1 hour of exposure therapeutic dose levels of systemically administered IgG maintains a vascular distribution left column . However there was a marked difference in antibody localization 24 hours after injection. Anti TfRdistribution was no longer exclusively vascular but instead exhibited modest parenchymal staining right columns . In contrast control IgG antibody was largely absent in brain tissue 24 hours after injection right columns . These results indicate that when dosed at therapeutically relevant levels anti TfRmay penetrate the BBB as evidenced by modest parenchymal staining however the bulk of the brain accumulated antibody was largely confined to endothelial cells of the BBB.

Accumulation in the parenchyma requires binding to surface TfRs expressed on brain endothelial cells as well as dissociation from the receptor following RMT. Without being bound by any theory it was hypothesized that reduced affinity for TfR may facilitate dissociation after RMT and allow enhanced accumulation in the parenchyma. Further an anti TfR with reduced affinity would be less efficiently captured and transported in a concentration limited environment such as in the brain where anti TfR concentrations are low. In a clinical setting however serum levels of an anti TfR therapeutic would still be sufficiently high to maintain saturation of the receptor in the vascular lumen.

To test this prediction variants of anti TfRwere generated that vary in their binding affinity for TfR. These variants were tested in a competition ELISA assay anti TfRhad the strongest affinity and lowest IC50 of any of the tested antibodies for TfR and each of anti TfRhad successively lower affinity and higher IC50. Later variant anti TfRwas generated and tested in the same assay along with anti TfRvariants as shown in it was substantially less able to compete for binding to TfR than any of the other tested anti TfR antibodies and it had a corresponding high IC50 value Table 2 .

These variants were tested in both a non TfR saturating trace dosing and TfR saturating therapeutic dosing environment. Trace levels of I anti TfR I anti I anti TfR I anti TfRand I anti TfR which vary in affinity for TfR with the affinity of anti TfR affinity of anti TfR affinity of anti TfR affinity of anti TfR affinity of anti TfR were injected i.v. into mice and brain uptake was measured 1 4 or 24 hours after injection. This assay was performed originally with I anti TfR I anti TfR I anti TfR and I anti TfR and later repeated upon the construction of I anti TfR the results of which are shown in . Consistent with the proposed model trace dose levels of lower affinity anti TfR antibodies resulted in less uptake in brain compared to higher affinity variants . In striking contrast to trace dosing however brain uptake of these same lower affinity variants at therapeutic levels 20 mg kg assessed at 1 and 24 hours exhibited increased brain uptake at 24 hours as affinity was lowered while no significant difference in uptake was observed at 1 hour . These data support the hypothesis that a lower affinity RMT antibody would exhibit decreased transport under limiting concentrations while transport under saturating conditions would be unaffected.

Thus the following model is proposed compared to a high affinity antibody fewer low affinity antibodies bind to receptors on the luminal side of the vasculature under non saturating concentrations leading to lower endothelial uptake left panels . At a higher therapeutic dose however luminal receptors would be saturated regardless of affinity resulting in similar endothelial uptake right panels . Under these conditions lower affinity RMT antibodies can achieve greater brain accumulation by 1 maximizing dissociation from the RMT target facilitating release into the brain and 2 reducing the likelihood of efflux out of the brain as concentrations are limited on the parenchymal side of the BBB. Thus in a therapeutic setting a lower affinity antibody for an RMT target is surprisingly advantageous for parenchymal accumulation.

To evaluate the localization of these variants exhibiting increased brain uptake mice were dosed i.v. with 20 mg kg of either the high affinity anti TfRor the lower affinity variants anti TfR. After 24 hours animals were PBS perfused and brain sections were co stained for human IgG and the neuronal marker NeuN . As observed before high affinity anti TfRtreated animals had mostly vascular staining with low levels of parenchymal signal top row . However the lower affinity anti TfRhad noticeably more pronounced cellular staining not depicting cortical blood vessels data for anti TfR . Furthermore co localized staining with NeuN indicated a redistribution of antibody from the vasculature to neurons. This is especially pronounced in a representative higher magnification image of anti TfRvariant . Together with the brain uptake data these results indicate that a significantly higher brain accumulation of antibody can be achieved by lowering the affinity of anti TfR for TfR and that lower affinity antibodies such as anti TfRselectively distributed to neurons.

Transport of anti TfR antibodies across the BBB was further established when evaluating a bispecific antibody anti TfR BACE1 that binds both TfR and the amyloid precursor protein APP cleavage enzyme beta secretase BACE1 . The high affinity anti TfRwas used to engineer the TfR binding arm of the bispecific using standard knob in hole bispecific antibody construction technology see e.g. Ridgway et al. Protein Eng. 1996 9 7 617 621 . In addition to the knob and hole mutations in the Fc for anti TfR hole and anti BACE1 knob the anti TfR arm of the antibody comprised a mutation in the Fc region that abrogated glycosylation N297G . The knob and hole half antibodies were purified separately and annealed to generate an aglycosylated bispecific IgG in vitro. The binding affinity of the anti TfR BACE1 antibody to TfR was considerably reduced compared to the parental anti TfRdue to the loss of bivalent binding . BACE1 is expressed primarily on neurons in the CNS and is considered to be the primary contributor of beta amyloid A13140 formation via APP cleavage Vassar et al. 286 735 741 1999 . An antibody to BACE1 has been described as an effective means to inhibit BACE1 activity and may reduce A production in vivo. Inhibition of BACE1 by anti TfR BACE1 was examined in a HEK293 cell line stably expressing APP. Compared to anti BACE1 the bispecific antibody had both similar efficacy and potency in inhibiting A production suggesting that the anti TfR BACE1 is a fully functional large molecule inhibitor of BACE1 activity .

Based on this model this lower affinity bispecific would be expected to be a more favorable candidate for increased uptake compared to the anti TfR alone. To investigate the brain accumulation of the bispecific antibody trace doses of I anti TfR BACE1 were compared to I anti TfRand I anti BACE1 and brain uptake was evaluated at 30 min. 6 24 and 48 hours after i.v. injection. Significantly higher brain uptake was observed with I anti TfR BACE1 compared to I anti BACE1 at all time points n 4 . Consistent with the affinity hypothesis brain uptake of this non saturating trace dose of I anti TfRwas much greater than that of the lower affinity I anti TfR BACE1. To assess antibody accumulation at therapeutic dose levels mice were injected i.v. with anti TfR BACE1 or anti BACE1 at 20 mg kg and brain uptake of antibody was determined after 1 12 24 and 48 hours. Compared to the monospecific anti BACE1 administration of the bispecific anti TfR BACE1 resulted in a significantly higher brain uptake at all time points . As predicted by the affinity model the extent of uptake was significantly greater than the higher affinity anti TfRalone compare . Peak accumulation was achieved at 24 hours after injection reaching concentrations of 20 nM and remained elevated 48 hours after injection even as peripheral levels of antibody cleared to 12 of its concentration at 1 hour. Enhanced uptake by the bispecific is dramatically apparent when comparing the average percent of antibody in the brain versus the serum .

To determine localization of anti TfR BACE1 after systemic administration mice were PBS perfused 24 hours after injection and antibody distribution was visualized with anti human fluorescent secondary . Similar to the lower affinity anti TfR antibody localization there was substantial staining of the parenchyma in addition to vascular staining. Parenchymal co localization with NeuN indicated that these antibodies were localized to the neuronal population. In contrast animals injected with control IgG showed a complete lack of both vascular and parenchymal staining. Together these data indicate that the bispecific anti TfR BACE1 traverses across the BBB and can significantly accumulate in the brain parenchyma.

To assess the efficacy of anti TfR BACE1 on A production in vivo wild type mice were administered a single 25 mg kg or 50 mg kg dose of control IgG anti BACE1 or anti TfR BACE1. Based on the observation that brain antibody uptake peaks 24 hours after injection see brain and plasma A levels were determined at 24 and 48 hours after i.v. antibody administration. At 25 mg kg anti TfR BACE1 was able to significantly reduce brain A levels compared to control IgG both after 24 p 0.001 n 10 and 48 p 0.0003 n 10 hours post injection while anti BACE1 had no effect on A reduction . At 50 mg kg anti TfR BACE1 had a even more dramatic effect on reducing brain A at both time points compared to control IgG p

At therapeutic doses of 20 mg kg however BBB penetrance and entry into the non vascular portions of the CNS was enhanced in the anti TfR treated animals relative to the anti TfRor anti TfR treated animals . Notably anti TfRachieved a higher initial concentration in the brain which steadily decreased after day 2 anti TfR on the other hand retained a consistently high level of brain exposure over the tested 8 day period. Relatedly anti TfRconcentration in the serum decreased the least of all of the anti TfR antibodies over the assessed period . In all this data indicates that generally a lower affinity for TfR surprisingly reduces serum clearance and increases brain exposure but that at some threshold the lower affinity begins to impair the maximum brain exposure obtainable with the antibody. In this example an optimum would seem to be found between the affinities of antibodies anti TfRand anti TfRfor transferrin receptor.

Importantly these data highlight several causative mechanisms behind increasing uptake of an antibody into the CNS using a lower affinity antibody approach. First high affinity anti TfR antibodies e.g. anti TfR limit brain uptake by quickly saturating the TfR in the brain vasculature thus reducing the total amount of antibody taken up into the brain and also restricting its distribution to the vasculature. Strikingly lowering affinity e.g. anti TfR and anti TfR BACE1 G and C improves brain uptake and distribution with a robust shift observed in localization from the vasculature to neurons and associated neuropil. Second the lower affinity of the antibody for TfR is proposed to impair the ability of the antibody to return to the vascular side of the BBB via TfR from the CNS side of the membrane because the overall affinity of the antibody for TfR is low and the local concentration of the antibody on the CNS side of the BBB is non saturating due to the rapid dispersal of the antibody into the CNS compartment see e.g. . Third in vivo antibodies with less affinity for TfR are not cleared from the system as efficiently as those with greater affinity for TfR see and thus remain at higher circulating concentrations than their higher affinity counterparts. This is advantageous because the circulating antibody levels of the lower affinity antibody are sustained at therapeutic levels for a longer period of time than the higher affinity antibody which subsequently improves uptake of antibody in brain for longer period of time compare anti TfR BACE1 to anti TfR BACE1 in . Furthermore this improvement in both plasma and brain exposure may reduce the frequency of dosing in the clinic which would have potential benefit not only for patient compliance and convenience but also in lessening any potential side effects or off target effects of the antibody and or of a therapeutic compound coupled thereto.

Further studies were performed to assess whether further lessening the affinity of the bispecific anti TfR BACE1 antibody could further improve its BBB and parenchymal penetrance. Two further bispecific antibodies were constructed anti TfR BACE1 and anti TfR BACE1 using the same construction methodology employed for the anti TfR BACE1 antibody. Competition ELISA assays were performed and the resulting IC50s were as follows 

Surface plasmon resonance measurements of Kd were also made for the binding between each bispecific antibody and TfR. The BIACORE analysis in Table 3 was performed as follows. Kd was measured using surface plasmon resonance assays using a BIACORE T 100 BIAcore Inc. Piscataway N.J. at 25 C. using penta His Ab capture Qiagen Valencia Calif. . Briefly carboxymethylated dextran biosensor chips CMS BIACORE Inc. were activated with N ethyl N 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride EDC and N hydroxysuccinimide NHS according to the supplier s instructions. Penta His antibody was diluted with 100 mM sodium acetate pH 4.0 to 50 g ml before injection at a flow rate of 5 l minute to achieve approximately 10000 response units RU of coupled protein. Following the injection of antibody 1 M ethanolamine was injected to block unreacted groups. For kinetics measurements MuTfR His was injected in HBS P to reach about 50 RU then two fold serial dilutions of anti TfR BACE1 1.95 nM to 1000 nM or anti TfR BACE1 9.75 nM to 5000 nM were injected in HBS P at 25 C. at a flow rate of approximately 30 l min. Association rates k and dissociation rates k were calculated using a simple one to one Langmuir binding model BIACORE Evaluation Software version 3.2 by simultaneously fitting the association and dissociation sensorgrams. The equilibrium dissociation constant Kd was calculated as the ratio koff kon. See e.g. Chen et al. 293 865 881 1999 . The affinity of anti TfR BACE1 was too weak to be determined by surface plasmon resonance.

As shown in and Tables 2 and 3 the bispecific anti TfR BACE1 and anti TfR BACE1 antibodies bound markedly less well to TfR than the corresponding monospecific anti TfRand anti TfR compare to . For anti TfR BACE1 the partial binding curves for the bispecific and monospecific also suggest that the bispecific anti TfR BACE1 has a much higher IC50 than the corresponding monospecific anti TfR.

These antibodies were tested in the same in vivo A production assay described above. Briefly 6 8 week old wild type C57B1 6 mice were administered via i.v. tail vein injection a single 50 mg kg dose of control IgG monospecific anti BACE1 or anti TfR BACE1 anti TfR BACE1 or anti TfR BACE1 6 mice per antibody treatment per timepoint for a total of 180 mice treated. Brain and plasma A levels were determined at 1 2 4 6 8 and 10 days after i.v. antibody administration . The concentration of bispecific antibodies found in the brain at the earliest time point was greatest with anti TfR BACE1 and anti TfR BACE1 each of which had concentrations of more than twice the concentration achieved by anti TfR BACE1 at the 1 day time point. However the anti TfR BACE1 brain concentration levels returned to control levels by day 6 and the anti TfR BACE1 levels did so by day 10. In contrast the lowest affinity bispecific antibody anti TfR BACE1 had a much lower relative dropoff in brain antibody concentration as compared to anti TfR BACE1 and anti TfR BACE1 in keeping with the proposed model that a lower affinity for anti TfR leads to a reduced ability for the antibody to be exported from the parenchymal space. The levels of Abeta1 40 in the brain were reduced in roughly the same proportion expected by the observed concentrations of bispecific antibody in the brain anti TfR BACE1 and anti TfR BACE1 had similarly reduced levels of observed brain Abeta1 40 at the earliest time points days 1 2 which either rapidly increased at subsequent time points anti TfR BACE1 or more moderately increased at subsequent time points anti TfR BACE1 consistent with the observed decreases in brain concentration of each of these antibodies . Notably while the anti TfR BACE1 antibody treatment resulted in a relatively more modest reduction in brain Abeta1 40 levels than that observed with the other bispecific antibodies this reduction was consistent across all timepoints .

Plasma measurements showed that anti TfR BACE1 was cleared by day 4 while anti TfR BACE1 persisted at relatively low levels across all time points and levels of anti TfR BACE1 remained similar to controls across all time points. Consistent with this finding observed plasma Abeta1 40 levels were similarly reduced from control anti gD levels at all time points with each of anti TfR BACE1 anti TfR BACE1 and anti BACE1. Anti TfR BACE1 showed similar reductions at the 1 2 and 4 day time points rapidly returning to control levels at later time points in keeping with the observed disappearance of the antibody from the plasma.

These results again demonstrate that bispecific anti TfR BACE1 antibodies effectively cross the BBB and inhibit BACE1 activity in a mammalian in vivo system. They also suggest that an affinity for TfR between that of the anti TFR BACE1 and the anti TfR BACE1 may provide an optimal combination of persistence and activity in the parenchyma brain. It is noted however that for each brain target the potency of the bispecific arm specific for that target will dictate how much of the anti TfR target bispecific antibody must be present in the CNS side of the BBB in order to achieve the desired results and thus what degree of affinity of the anti TfR for TfR must be used in the bispecific to obtain that concentration. This invention provides a means to determine and design the bispecific antibody to achieve such target levels in the CNS after administration on the nonprivileged side of the BBB.

These results were confirmed and extended using another anti TfR bispecific antibody anti TfR Abeta that binds both TfR and amyloid beta. Three bispecific variants were prepared anti TfR Abeta anti TfR Abeta and anti TfR Abeta using the same methods as used for the preparation of the anti TfR BACE1 bispecific above. Abeta is the main substituent of amyloid plaques which are believed to be involved in the development of AD. Inhibition of plaque formation by Abeta binding and removal in either its free or oligomerized state may inhibit the development or progression of AD. The pharmacokinetic properties of each of these bispecific antibodies were assessed.

A single 50 mg kg dose of control IgG monospecific anti Abeta antibody or each bispecific antibody was injected i.p. into 8 16 week old wild type C57BL 6J mice or mice expressing both human presenilin 2 and human amyloid precursor protein PS2APP . Due to a limited number of transgenic animals only two of the bispecific variants anti TfR Abeta and anti TfR Abeta were assayed in the PS2APP mice. Four to six replicate mice were dosed in each treatment group. The mice were sacrificed after 24 hours and drug levels measured in both the brain and plasma as with the anti TfR BACE1 bispecific studies. Prior to sacrifice blood was also collected 6 hours post dose for an early evaluation of plasma antibody concentrations. Plasma measurements of antibody concentration showed that all antibodies were present at similar levels at 6 hours post dose. However control monospecific anti Abeta levels were reduced compared to control IgG by 24 hours. This is similar to previous observations for this anti Abeta molecule. At 24 hours anti TfR Abeta showed similar antibody levels in the periphery as anti Abeta whereas anti TfR Abeta and anti TfR Abeta showed slightly elevated levels intermediate between anti Abeta and control IgG.

The concentration of bispecific antibodies found in the brain was increased compared to both control IgG and anti Abeta . As compared to anti Abeta anti TfR Abeta had concentrations 12 fold higher anti TfR Abeta had concentrations 8 to 15 fold higher and anti TfR Abeta had concentrations 4 to 5 fold higher. The increase in brain uptake of the anti TfR Abeta antibodies compared to anti Abeta was even greater than the increases seen for the anti TfR BACE bispecific antibodies compared to anti BACE1. This is likely due to the decreased peripheral exposure of anti Abeta compared to control IgG 24 hours after dosing which resulted in lower levels of anti Abeta in brain as compared to control IgG.

These findings are the first demonstration that large molecule antibodies administered at therapeutically relevant doses can traverse the BBB and produce significant and sustained brain uptake. Furthermore these results demonstrating an inverse relationship between antibody affinity and extent of brain uptake furthers understanding of RMT dynamics. This novel insight can be applied to a variety of other potential RMT targets to provide a more effective strategy for antibody drug delivery into the CNS. Additionally these in vivo results demonstrate that a bispecific antibody can greatly improve the potency of a promising anti amyloidogenic therapeutic by significantly increasing brain penetrance of the targeting antibody drug. This could be highly advantageous as enhanced drug delivery would translate to less potential side effects due to lower therapeutic dosing required. More generally this technology has vast potential to be applied to therapeutics for a wide range of CNS diseases and represents an improved approach to provide safer antibody drugs.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding the descriptions and examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. The disclosures of all patent and scientific literature cited herein are expressly incorporated in their entirety by reference.

