---

title: Using display components for light sensing
abstract: This disclosure relates to, among other things, devices, systems, methods, computer-readable media, techniques, and methodologies that utilize and/or incorporate display components capable of being configured to detect light.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09576542&OS=09576542&RS=09576542
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09576542
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141202
---
A mobile device such as a smartphone tablet or electronic reader may include an ambient light sensor for detecting ambient light incident on a display of the device. The ambient light sensor may be provided at a periphery of the device for example. An amount of light transmitted through emitted by or reflected by the display may be adjusted based on output from the sensor by controlling a backlight or frontlight unit of the display and or driving circuitry for driving pixels of the display. For example in bright ambient light conditions the brightness of the display may be reduced to compensate for ambient brightness.

There has been an increasing trend towards reducing border areas of mobile devices in order to maximize the display area. A consequence of this trend has been a reduced amount of device real estate available for providing an ambient light sensor an image sensor or the like.

This disclosure relates to among other things devices systems methods computer readable media techniques and methodologies that utilize and or incorporate display components capable of being configured to detect light. In an example embodiment transistors forming part of pixels of a display may be used as phototransistors to detect ambient light. The amount of light emitted by a display emitted by an internal backlight and transmitted by the display or emitted by an internal frontlight and reflected by the display may then be adjusted based on the amount of ambient light detected. In an example embodiment a time division multiplexing approach may be used in which a transistor is caused to drive a corresponding pixel for a first portion of an addressing interval and is reverse biased during a second portion of the addressing interval in order to cause the transistor to function as a phototransistor. An addressing interval may correspond to a period of time during which a storage capacitor of a pixel substantially maintains a charge corresponding to a voltage applied to a transistor of the pixel thereby causing the pixel to emit transmit or reflect an amount of light corresponding to the applied voltage. The second portion of the addressing interval may occur before or after the first portion of the addressing interval and may be substantially shorter in duration than the first portion.

In another example embodiment a dedicated group of transistors may be used solely as phototransistors to detect ambient light rather than to drive pixels. The dedicated group of transistors may be provided along a periphery of the display or at one or more other positions of the display so as not to generate visible artifacts. Thus the dedicated group of phototransistors may be located closer to a periphery of the display than display pixels. The dedicated number of transistors used for light sensing may be substantially smaller than the number of transistors used for driving pixels. In yet another example embodiment a group of photodiodes may be incorporated into a display at various pixel positions and may be used for light sensing in lieu of transistors that would typically be provided at such positions.

In addition in certain example embodiments a color temperature of ambient light may be determined based on a comparison of signals received from phototransistors or photodiodes associated with different color sub pixels. The color temperature may then be used to for example adjust the white point of a display. While example embodiments may be described herein in connection with ambient light sensing applications it should be appreciated that such embodiments are also applicable to image sensing applications as well. For example one or more transistors may be used as image sensors.

Display technologies may be broadly categorized as either emissive or non emissive. Emissive displays are displays that generate and emit light. Non emissive displays on the other hand utilize optical effects to convert ambient light or light emitted from an internal light source into graphical patterns. Examples of emissive displays include for example a gas discharge display an electrochemical display ECD an electroluminescent display ELD a vacuum fluorescent display VFD a surface conduction electronic emitter display SED a field emission display FED a cathode ray tube CRT light emitting diode LED displays organic light emitting diode OLED displays inorganic light emitting diode ILED displays and so forth. In those example embodiments in which the emissive display is an OLED or ILED display the display may be a top emitting or bottom emitting OLED or ILED display. Non emissive displays may include reflective transmissive or transflective displays. Examples of non emissive displays include for example frontlit or backlit liquid crystal displays LCDs electrophoretic displays electrowetting displays and so forth. LCD displays may include twisted nematic LCDs in plane switching LCDs or the like and may be directly or actively addressed.

Referring now to in an example embodiment of the disclosure a backlit LCD display may be provided. Although a backlit LCD display is shown for explanatory purposes it should be appreciated that the display may be a frontlit LCD display instead. The LCD display may include a display stack that may include a thin film transistor TFT backplane array. The TFT backplane array may include a substrate which may be for example a transparent glass substrate. An array of pixels may be formed on the substrate . Each pixel may include a pixel electrode and one or more TFTs . Each TFT forming part of the TFT backplane array may control a particular pixel of the display thereby allowing each pixel to be individually addressed.

A TFT may be a type of field effect transistor FET having a source terminal a gate terminal and a drain terminal. An FET includes an active channel that forms in a semiconductor layer and through which charge carriers electrons or holes flow from the source to the drain when a gate source voltage in excess of a threshold voltage is applied. A TFT may be formed by depositing thin films of an active semiconductor layer as well as a dielectric layer and metallic contacts over a supporting and non conducting substrate such as glass. A TFT may have any of a wide variety of structures that may be defined by the order of deposition of the semiconductor layer the source and drain contacts and the gate electrode. For example a TFT may have a top gate structure in which the source and drain electrodes are first deposited on the substrate followed by the semiconductor layer the dielectric layer and the gate electrode. As another example a TFT may instead have a bottom gate structure in which the gate electrode is first deposited on the substrate. The source drain and gate electrodes may be formed of any suitable material including but not limited to gold indium tin oxide ITO or the like. The semiconductor layer may be formed of amorphous silicon a Si low temperature poly silicon LTPS a metal oxide such as indium gallium zinc oxide IGZO or the like. A TFT having a top gate or a bottom gate structure may have a staggered configuration or a coplanar configuration. In the staggered configuration the source and drain electrodes are provided on an opposing side of the semiconductor layer as the gate electrode. In the coplanar configuration the source and drain electrodes are provided on a same side of the semiconductor layer as the gate electrode.

In those example embodiments in which the LCD display is a backlit LCD display the LCD display stack may further include a backlight . The backlight may be any suitable light source such as for example a cold cathode fluorescence lamp CCFL a white light emitting diode LED an RGB LED or the like. The backlight may illuminate the LCD from the back or side of the display panel. While illustratively depicts a backlight it should be appreciated that other light sources may be employed such as for example a frontlight or the like. A diffuser may be provided to cause the light emitted by the backlight to be evenly distributed across the display panel. In certain example embodiments other component s such as a lightguide may be provided to assist with even distribution of the light to the display panel.

Light emitted from the backlight and diffused through the diffuser may pass through the TFT backplane substrate and reach each pixel of the display stack . In an actively addressed LCD display panel a series of intersecting column data lines and row scanning lines not shown may be provided. Each scanning line may be connected to each gate electrode of each TFT in a same row of the TFT backplane array. Each data line may be connected to each source electrode of each TFT in a same column of the TFT backplane array. Each TFT may be controlled by two pulse signals generated by driving circuitry in response to command signals received from a timing controller . The driving circuitry may include a row driver and a column driver not shown in for providing the pulse signals to scanning lines and data lines. In particular gate pulses may be provided to each horizontal scanning line during successive addressing intervals. When a gate pulse corresponding to a gate source voltage that exceeds the threshold voltage of a TFT is applied to a scanning line the TFT may be switched to an ON state allowing current to flow from the source to the drain. The column driver may then concurrently provide a pulse signal e.g. a voltage to a corresponding data line which may cause a storage capacitor forming part of a corresponding pixel to be charged. The TFT may then transition to an OFF state upon receipt of the negative edge of the gate pulse and the storage capacitor may maintain the resultant charge until the next addressing interval. The storage capacitor charge may cause corresponding liquid crystal molecules in a liquid crystal layer to re orient themselves in accordance with the magnitude of the voltage applied to the data line.

Although not shown in the display stack may include a first polarizer that passes that portion of the emitted light having a first polarization and a second polarizer that passes that portion of the emitted light having a second polarization that is orthogonal to the first polarization. The liquid crystal molecules may naturally orient themselves such that when no voltage is applied to a data line light passed by the first polarizer e.g. light having the first polarization is altered to the second polarization thereby allowing the light to pass through the second polarizer. Thus when no voltage is applied to a data line the pixels connected to that data line may be in their most transmissive state. A voltage can be applied to a data line to alter the orientation of liquid crystal molecules and attain intermediate levels of light transmission. A voltage applied to a data line that exceeds a certain threshold value may result in parallel alignment of liquid crystal molecules and thus no rotation of light from the first polarization to the second polarization and no transmission of light through corresponding pixels.

Referring again to the LCD display stack each pixel may include one or more individually addressable sub pixels with each sub pixel being associated with a corresponding color filter . For example each sub pixel may have a red green or blue color filter associated therewith that filters light passing through the liquid crystal layer and a common electrode which may be a transparent electrode. In certain example embodiments a combination of red green and blue sub pixels may form a pixel of the display. It should be appreciated that any discussion referencing a pixel herein may also be applicable to a sub pixel. Further while example embodiments may be described in connection with RGB displays it should be appreciated that embodiments directed to RGBW displays are also within the scope of the disclosure.

As shown in one or more computer processors may send a signal to the timing controller which in turn may cause the driving circuitry to apply a voltage e.g. a row pulse to the scanning line connected to gate electrodes of TFTs associated with a same row of sub pixels. The voltage may be a gate source voltage that exceeds a threshold voltage of the TFTs causing the TFTs to successively switch to an ON state. While each TFT is in the ON state the driving circuitry may apply a voltage to a corresponding data line causing a corresponding sub pixel to transmit light through the liquid crystal layer at an amount determined by the applied voltage. For example a first voltage may be applied to a data line corresponding to a sub pixel associated with a red color filter causing a first amount of light to be transmitted through that sub pixel. A second higher voltage may be applied to a data line corresponding to a sub pixel associated with a blue color filter causing a second lesser amount of light to be transmitted through that sub pixel. Similarly various other voltages may be applied to other data lines to cause light to be transmitted through other corresponding sub pixels at various amounts.

In certain example embodiments one or more TFTs may be configured so as to be capable of being reverse biased. For example a respective bias line may be connected to the gate electrode of each such TFT . In response to a signal received from one or more computer processors the timing controller to cause the driving circuitry to apply a voltage to the bias line to cause the TFT to become reverse biased. Reverse biasing a TFT in this manner may allow the TFT to function as a phototransistor. In particular when a photon of ambient light from an ambient light source contacts the semiconductor layer of a reversed biased TFT an electron hole pair may be generated within a depletion region of the semiconductor layer. The holes may be caused to move towards the anode and the electrons towards the cathode by an electric field of the depletion region thereby generating a photocurrent .

The photocurrent may be detected by ambient light detection circuitry . The ambient light detection circuitry may include an amplifier for amplifying the photocurrent and an analog to digital converter ADC for converting the amplified current to a digital signal . The digital signal may be provided to one or more ambient light detection module s that may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution by one or more computer processors may cause an intensity of ambient light to be determined from the digital signal . In certain example embodiments digital signals corresponding to photocurrents generated by multiple reversed biased TFTs may be provided as input to the ambient light detection module s to determine an average or other statistical measure of the intensity of ambient light.

The ambient light detection module s may provide one or more values indicative of the intensity of the ambient light to one or more light modulation modules which may in turn supply the timing controller with one or more signals indicative of data line voltages to be applied to cause an amount of light transmitted through one or more sub pixels of the display to be modulated to compensate for the detected intensity of the ambient light. The timing controller may control the driving circuitry to apply the data line voltages . In this manner light transmitted through the display may be adjusted to account for variance in the intensity of detected ambient light. For example in bright ambient light conditions the brightness of the display may be increased. Similarly in low ambient light conditions the brightness of the display may be reduced to converse battery power. In certain example embodiments a difference between the intensity of the detected ambient light and a reference intensity of ambient light may be determined and this difference may be used to determine an appropriate value of the data line voltage to be applied to compensate for either the increased or decreased intensity of the ambient light as compared to the reference intensity of the ambient light. More specifically the difference may be used to determine an amount of which an existing data line voltage should be modified to compensate for the detected intensity of the ambient light conditions.

In certain example embodiments the timing controller may utilize a time division multiplexing approach according to which during a first portion of an addressing interval the timing controller causes the driving circuitry to provide a voltage to a scanning line to successively switch TFTs associated with a row of sub pixels to an ON state thereby allowing the TFTs to drive the sub pixels in accordance with voltages applied to corresponding data lines. Then during a second portion of the addressing interval the timing controller may cause the driving circuitry may supply voltages to bias lines connected to the TFTs to reverse bias the TFTs . While reverse biased the TFTs may function as phototransistors for ambient light detection. This time division multiplexing approach may be applied for each sub pixel that is addressed. In certain example embodiments the second portion of an addressing interval during which a TFT is reverse biased may be substantially shorter than the first portion of time during which the corresponding sub pixel transmits light. In certain other example embodiments while a first group of sub pixels are being addressed a second group of sub pixels may be reversed biased to function as phototransistors. In still other example embodiments rather than reverse bias each TFT for some portion of an addressing interval such that each TFT functions as a phototransistor for some period of time only a smaller subgroup of TFTs may be reverse biased for a portion of the addressing interval. Thus in certain example embodiments certain TFTs may never be reverse biased during any portion of an addressing interval.

In other example embodiments rather than partitioning the addressing interval of a sub pixel into a first period of time during which the corresponding TFT is switched to an ON state and the sub pixel is driven and a second period of time during which the TFT is reverse biased to function as a phototransistor a dedicated group of TFTs may instead be used solely as phototransistors to detect ambient light rather than for driving pixels. The dedicated group of TFTs may be provided along a periphery of the display or at one or more other positions of the display so as not to generate visible artifacts. The dedicated number of TFTs used solely for light sensing may be substantially smaller than the number of TFTs used for driving pixels so that the display characteristics are not noticeably affected. In yet other example embodiments a group of photodiodes may be incorporated into a display at various pixel positions and used for light sensing in lieu of TFTs s that would typically be provided at such positions.

In addition in certain example embodiments a color temperature of ambient light may be determined based on a comparison of signals received from phototransistors or photodiodes associated with different color sub pixels. For example the ambient light detection module s may compare photocurrents generated by reversed biased TFTs associated with red sub pixels to photocurrents generated by reverse biased TFTs associated with blue and or green sub pixels to determine a color temperature of the incoming ambient light. The color temperature may then be used by the light modulation module s to for example adjust the white point of a display. For example if the color temperature indicates that the ambient light is shifted towards a particular portion of the visible light spectrum the light modulation module s may provide signals to the timing controller which may cause the driving circuitry to supply voltages that cause light transmitted through the display to compensate for the shift in the ambient light.

While example embodiments of the disclosure may be described herein in connection with backlit LCDs it should be appreciated that such embodiments are also applicable to other types of emissive and non emissive displays. For example one or more pixels of an OLED or ILED display may not have an emissive layer deposited thereon. In this manner ambient light may be able to reach TFTs corresponding to such pixels thereby allowing such TFTs to function as phototransistors.

Example embodiments of the disclosure provide a number of technical features or technical effects. For example in accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure an existing TFT backplane of a display may be used to provide light sensing functions without requiring significant modification to the TFT backplane circuitry by using a time division multiplexing approach as described earlier and or using a dedicated group of TFTs solely as phototransistors. Such an approach obviates the need for a separate ambient light sensor and or image sensor. Further such an approach that utilizes display components for light sensing avoids the possibility of a user inadvertently obscuring an ambient light sensor provided at a periphery of a device adjacent to a display as may occur with conventional devices. In addition utilizing the time division multiplexing approach described herein and or a suitable number of dedicated phototransistors allows for a sufficient amount of ambient light to reach the phototransistors for detection despite the attenuation of light that occurs through the liquid crystal layer. It should be appreciated that the above examples of technical features and or effects of example embodiments of the disclosure are merely illustrative and not exhaustive.

One or more illustrative embodiments of the disclosure have been described above. The above described embodiments are merely illustrative of the scope of this disclosure and are not intended to be limiting in any way. Accordingly variations modifications and equivalents of embodiments disclosed herein are also within the scope of this disclosure. The above described embodiments and additional and or alternative embodiments of the disclosure will be described in detail hereinafter through reference to the accompanying drawings.

Referring first to a cross section of an example display pixel A or sub pixel in accordance with one or more example embodiments of the disclosure is shown. The display pixel A may include a first polarizer that passes light having a first polarization among light emitted from for example a backlight not shown . The light having a first polarization may be polarized in a first plane. The display pixel A may further include a second polarizer that passes portions of light having a second polarization that is orthogonal to the first polarization. That is light having the second polarization may be polarized in a second plane that is orthogonal to the first plane. Thus light entering the display pixel A may have the first polarization which may be orthogonal to the second polarization of light exiting the display pixel A. One or both of the polarizer and the polarizer may be common to the display pixel A and one or more additional pixels.

The display pixel A may further include a substrate and a substrate which may be formed of a transparent material such as glass. The display pixel A may also include a pixel electrode and a common electrode . The pixel electrode may correspond to the particular display pixel A while the common electrode may be common to the display pixel A and one or more additional pixels. At least the common electrode may be a transparent electrode. A spacer may be provided for maintaining a space between the common electrode and the pixel electrode and a liquid crystal material may be provided in the space between the electrodes. A seal may be provided for containing the liquid crystal within the display pixel A. Alignment layers may be provided for aligning liquid crystal molecules near the surfaces of the electrodes to correspond to the orientations of plane polarized light passed by the polarizer and the polarizer . In addition a color filter may be provided that causes light of a particular portion of the visible spectrum to be transmitted through the display pixel A.

The display pixel A may further include a TFT which may have any suitable structure described above. For example the TFT may include a source electrode a gate electrode and a drain electrode . As previously described a gate source voltage applied to a scanning line connected to the gate electrode of the TFT may switch the TFT to an ON state and a voltage applied to a data line may charge a storage capacitor of the display pixel A. The charge of the storage capacitor may cause liquid crystal molecules to change orientation thereby modulating the amount of light transmitted through the display pixel A. Further as previously described a bias line may be connected to the TFT via which a bias voltage may be provided to reverse bias the TFT to cause the TFT to function as a phototransistor.

The display pixel A may include a black mask that may be provided to prevent ambient light from activating the TFT and switching it to an ON state. In accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure an aperture may be formed in the black mask to allow enough ambient light to reach the TFT to permit generation of a photocurrent when the TFT is reverse biased while still preventing the ambient light from activating the TFT .

Referring now to a cross section of an example photodiode B is shown. The photodiode B may be incorporated into a display panel such as a TFT LCD panel in accordance with one or more example embodiments of the disclosure. More specifically the photodiode B may replace one or more transistors of a TFT backplane array such as the TFT backplane array depicted in as part of the LCD display stack . That is one or more pixels may each include a respective photodiode B for light detection in lieu or in addition to a TFT. In those example embodiments in which a pixel includes both a TFT and a photodiode B the TFT may be used solely for driving the pixel for light transmission and the photodiode B may be used solely for light detection.

The photodiode B may include an n type bulk silicon region . A thin p type layer may be formed in the n type region by thermal diffusion or ion implantation of an appropriate dopant. A p n junction may be formed at an interface between the p type layer and the bulk n type region . A metal contact e.g. anode may be applied to a front surface of the photodiode B and another metal contact e.g. cathode may be applied to a back surface of the photodiode B. A coating and or a diffusion mask formed of for example silicon nitride silicon monoxide or silicon dioxide may be applied to an active area of the photodiode B for protection and or to provide anti reflection properties. Charge carriers may become depleted near the p n junction forming a depletion region . The depth of the depletion region may be increased by applying a reverse bias voltage across the p n junction . When light is absorbed in the depletion region an electron hole pair is formed. The electrons and holes are separated with electrons passing to the n type region and holes to the p type region . As a result a photocurrent may be generated that may be detected by the ambient light detection circuitry as previously described. It should be appreciated that while an example photodiode B that uses a p n junction is depicted other suitable photodiodes may be used as well such as for example a PIN photodiode.

In an illustrative configuration the device may include one or more processors processor s one or more memory devices generically referred to herein as memory one or more input output I O interface s one or more network interfaces one or more sensors or sensor interfaces one or more transceivers data storage a TFT backplane array a timing controller driving circuitry and ambient light detection circuitry . In certain example embodiments the driving circuitry may correspond to the driving circuitry and the ambient light detection circuitry may correspond to the ambient light detection circuitry . The device may further include one or more buses that functionally couple various components of the device . The device may further include one or more antennas not shown that may include without limitation a cellular antenna for transmitting or receiving signals to from a cellular network infrastructure an antenna for transmitting or receiving Wi Fi signals to from an access point AP a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS antenna for receiving GNSS signals from a GNSS satellite a Bluetooth antenna for transmitting or receiving Bluetooth signals a Near Field Communication NFC antenna for transmitting or receiving NFC signals and so forth. These various components will be described in more detail hereinafter.

The bus es may include at least one of a system bus a memory bus an address bus or a message bus and may permit exchange of information e.g. data including computer executable code signaling etc. between various components of the device . The bus es may include without limitation a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and so forth. The bus es may be associated with any suitable bus architecture including without limitation an Industry Standard Architecture ISA a Micro Channel Architecture MCA an Enhanced ISA EISA a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA architecture an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP architecture a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI architecture a PCI Express architecture a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA architecture a Universal Serial Bus USB architecture and so forth.

The memory of the device may include volatile memory memory that maintains its state when supplied with power such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory memory that maintains its state even when not supplied with power such as read only memory ROM flash memory ferroelectric RAM FRAM and so forth. In certain example embodiments volatile memory may enable faster read write access than non volatile memory. However in certain other example embodiments certain types of non volatile memory e.g. FRAM may enable faster read write access than certain types of volatile memory.

In various implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as various types of static random access memory SRAM various types of dynamic random access memory DRAM various types of unalterable ROM and or writeable variants of ROM such as electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and so forth. The memory may include main memory as well as various forms of cache memory such as instruction cache s data cache s translation lookaside buffer s TLBs and so forth. Further cache memory such as a data cache may be a multi level cache organized as a hierarchy of one or more cache levels L1 L2 etc. .

The data storage may include removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disk storage and or tape storage. The data storage may provide non volatile storage of computer executable instructions and other data. The memory and the data storage removable and or non removable are examples of computer readable storage media CRSM as that term is used herein.

The data storage may store computer executable code instructions or the like that may be loadable into the memory and executable by the processor s to cause the processor s to perform or initiate various operations. The data storage may additionally store data that may be copied to memory for use by the processor s during the execution of the computer executable instructions. Moreover output data generated as a result of execution of the computer executable instructions by the processor s may be stored initially in memory and may ultimately be copied to data storage for non volatile storage.

More specifically the data storage may store one or more program modules such as for example one or more ambient light sensing control modules one or more ambient light detection modules and one or more light modulation modules . In certain example embodiments the ambient light detection module s may correspond to the ambient light detection module s and the light modulation module s may correspond to the light modulation module s . The data storage may further store any of variety of other types of modules. Further any program modules stored in the data storage may include one or more sub modules. Although not depicted in the data storage may store other computer executable code such as for example one or more operating systems that may be loaded from the data storage into the memory and which may provide an interface between other program modules executing on the device and hardware resources of the device . In addition the data storage may store various types of data that may be provided as input to a program module or generated as a result of execution of computer executable instructions of a program module. Any data stored in the data storage may be loaded into the memory for use by the processor s in executing computer executable code. It should be appreciated that data as that term is used herein includes computer executable instructions code or the like.

Referring now to functionality supported by the various program modules depicted in the light modulation module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may cause processing to be performed to generate and transmit signals to the timing controller to cause the driving circuitry to supply gate and data voltages to a transistor during a first portion of an addressing interval in order to modulate an amount of light transmitted through a corresponding pixel.

The ambient light sensing control module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may cause processing to be performed to generate and transmit signals to the timing controller to cause the driving circuitry to supply a reverse bias voltage to the transistor during a second portion of the addressing interval in order to cause the transistor to function as a phototransistor for light detection. In other example embodiments the ambient light sensing control module s may generate and transmit signals to the timing controller to cause the driving circuitry to supply a reverse bias voltage to a dedicated transistor to cause the transistor to function as a phototransistor for light detection. In such example embodiments the dedicated transistor may not be used to drive a corresponding pixel.

The ambient light detection module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may cause processing to be performed to receive digital data indicative of photocurrents generated by exposure to ambient light and determine an intensity of the ambient light. The light modulation module s may further include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may cause processing to be performed to generate and transmit signals to the timing controller to cause the driving circuitry to supply gate and data voltages to modulate the amount of light transmitted through one or more pixels based on the intensity of the ambient light detected.

Referring now to other illustrative components of the device the TFT backplane array may include any number of TFTs one or more of which may be configured to detect ambient light. For example the TFT backplane array may include one or more transistors A. In addition although not depicted in the device may include any other example components of the LCD display stack and or the photodiode B.

The driving circuitry may include a row driver and a column driver for supplying gate voltages on row lines and data voltages on column lines respectively in response to timing and data signals received from the timing controller . Further in certain example embodiments the timing controller and the driving circuitry may form part of a same integrated circuit IC chip while in other example embodiments the timing controller and the driving circuitry may be provided on two or more separate IC chips.

The ambient light detection circuitry may include an amplifier for amplifying a photocurrent generated by a photodiode or a transistor reverse biased to function as a phototransistor in accordance with one or more example embodiments of the disclosure. The ambient light detection circuitry may further include an analog to digital converter ADC for converting the analog signal from the amplifier into a digital signal capable of being processed by the ambient light detection module s .

Referring now to other illustrative components of the device the processor s may be configured to access the memory and execute computer executable instructions loaded therein. For example the processor s may be configured to execute computer executable instructions of the various program modules of the user device to cause or facilitate various operations to be performed in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure. The processor s may include any suitable processing unit capable of accepting data as input processing the input data in accordance with stored computer executable instructions and generating output data. The processor s may include any type of suitable processing unit including but not limited to a central processing unit a microprocessor a Reduced Instruction Group Computer RISC microprocessor a Complex Instruction Group Computer CISC microprocessor a microcontroller an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a System on a Chip SoC a digital signal processor DSP and so forth. Further the processor s may have any suitable microarchitecture design that includes any number of constituent components such as for example registers multiplexers arithmetic logic units cache controllers for controlling read write operations to cache memory branch predictors or the like. The microarchitecture design of the processor s may be capable of supporting any of a variety of instruction groups.

In addition the device may include one or more input output I O interfaces that may facilitate the receipt of input information by the device from one or more I O devices as well as the output of information from the device to the one or more I O devices. The I O devices may include for example one or more user interface devices that facilitate interaction between a user and the device including but not limited to a display a keypad a pointing device a control panel a touch screen display a remote control device a microphone a speaker and so forth. The I O devices may further include for example any number of peripheral devices such as data storage devices printing devices and so forth.

The device may further include one or more network interfaces via which the device may communicate with any of a variety of other systems platforms networks devices and so forth. Such communication may occur via one or more networks including but are not limited to any one or more different types of communications networks such as for example cable networks public networks e.g. the Internet private networks e.g. frame relay networks wireless networks cellular networks telephone networks e.g. a public switched telephone network or any other suitable private or public packet switched or circuit switched networks. Further such network s may have any suitable communication range associated therewith and may include for example global networks e.g. the Internet metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs or personal area networks PANs . In addition such network s may include communication links and associated networking devices e.g. link layer switches routers etc. for transmitting network traffic over any suitable type of medium including but not limited to coaxial cable twisted pair wire e.g. twisted pair copper wire optical fiber a hybrid fiber coaxial HFC medium a microwave medium a radio frequency communication medium a satellite communication medium or any combination thereof.

The antenna s not shown may include any suitable type of antenna depending for example on the communications protocols used to transmit or receive signals via the antenna s . Non limiting examples of suitable antennas may include directional antennas non directional antennas dipole antennas folded dipole antennas patch antennas multiple input multiple output MIMO antennas or the like. The antenna s may be communicatively coupled to one or more transceivers or radio components to which or from which signals may be transmitted or received.

The transceiver s may include any suitable radio component s for in cooperation with the antenna s transmitting or receiving radio frequency RF signals in the bandwidth and or channels corresponding to the communications protocols utilized by the device to communicate with other devices. The transceiver s may include hardware software and or firmware for modulating transmitting or receiving potentially in cooperation with any of antenna s communications signals according to any suitable communication protocol including but not limited to one or more Wi Fi and or Wi Fi direct protocols as standardized by the IEEE 802.11 standards one or more non Wi Fi protocols or one or more cellular communications protocols or standards. The transceiver s may further include hardware firmware or software for receiving GNSS signals. The transceiver s may include any known receiver and baseband suitable for communicating via the communications protocols utilized by the device . The transceiver s may further include a low noise amplifier LNA additional signal amplifiers an analog to digital A D converter one or more buffers digital baseband or the like.

The sensor s sensor interface s may include or may be capable of interfacing with any suitable type of sensing device such as for example ambient light sensors inertial sensors force sensors thermal sensors image sensors magnetometers and so forth. Example types of inertial sensors may include accelerometers e.g. MEMS based accelerometers gyroscopes and so forth.

It should be appreciated that the program modules applications computer executable instructions code or the like depicted in as being stored in the data storage are merely illustrative and not exhaustive and that processing described as being supported by any particular module may alternatively be distributed across multiple modules or performed by a different module. In addition various program module s script s plug in s Application Programming Interface s API s or any other suitable computer executable code hosted locally on the device and or hosted on other computing device s accessible via one or more networks may be provided to support functionality provided by the program modules applications or computer executable code depicted in and or additional or alternate functionality. Further functionality may be modularized differently such that processing described as being supported collectively by the collection of program modules depicted in may be performed by a fewer or greater number of modules or functionality described as being supported by any particular module may be supported at least in part by another module. In addition program modules that support the functionality described herein may form part of one or more applications executable across any number of systems or devices in accordance with any suitable computing model such as for example a client server model a peer to peer model and so forth. In addition any of the functionality described as being supported by any of the program modules depicted in may be implemented at least partially in hardware and or firmware across any number of devices.

It should further be appreciated that the device may include alternate and or additional hardware software or firmware components beyond those described or depicted without departing from the scope of the disclosure. More particularly it should be appreciated that software firmware or hardware components depicted as forming part of the device are merely illustrative and that some components may not be present or additional components may be provided in various embodiments. In addition the device may include other display components beyond those shown or described. While various illustrative program modules have been depicted and described as software modules stored in data storage it should be appreciated that functionality described as being supported by the program modules may be enabled by any combination of hardware software and or firmware. It should further be appreciated that each of the above mentioned modules may in various embodiments represent a logical partitioning of supported functionality. This logical partitioning is depicted for ease of explanation of the functionality and may not be representative of the structure of software hardware and or firmware for implementing the functionality. Accordingly it should be appreciated that functionality described as being provided by a particular module may in various embodiments be provided at least in part by one or more other modules. Further one or more depicted modules may not be present in certain embodiments while in other embodiments additional modules not depicted may be present and may support at least a portion of the described functionality and or additional functionality. Moreover while certain modules may be depicted and described as sub modules of another module in certain embodiments such modules may be provided as independent modules or as sub modules of other modules.

At block computer executable instructions of the light modulation module s may be executed to cause a gate source voltage to be applied to a transistor to switch the transistor to an ON state during a first portion of an addressing interval. More specifically computer executable instructions of the light modulation module s may be executed to generate one or more signals which may be supplied to the timing controller which may in turn cause the row driver of the driving circuitry to supply based on the one or more received signals a suitable gate source voltage to a gate electrode of the transistor via a scanning line to cause the transistor to transition to an ON state.

At block computer executable instructions of the light modulation module s may be executed to cause a data line voltage to be applied to the transistor in order to modulate a first amount of light transmitted through a corresponding pixel during the first portion of the addressing interval. More specifically computer executable instructions of the light modulation module s may be executed to generate one or more signals which may be supplied to the timing controller which may in turn cause the column driver of the driving circuitry to supply a data voltage to a data line to charge a storage capacitor of the pixel. The charge of the storage capacitor may alter an orientation of the liquid crystal molecules which may in turn reduce an amount of light transmitted through the pixel in proportion to the data voltage.

At block computer executable instructions of the ambient light sensing control module s may be executed to cause a reverse bias voltage to be applied to the transistor to have the transistor function as a phototransistor during a second portion of the addressing interval. More specifically computer executable instructions of the ambient light sensing control module s may be executed to generate one or more signals which may be supplied to the timing controller which may in turn cause the driving circuitry to apply a reverse bias voltage indicated by the signal s to a bias line connected to the transistor. Application of the reverse bias voltage to the transistor may cause the transistor to function as a phototransistor during the second portion of the addressing interval. While functioning as a phototransistor ambient light incident on the transistor may cause a photocurrent to be generated. The photocurrent may be amplified by the amplifier and the amplified analog signal may be converted to a digital signal by the ADC . The ADC may provide the digital signal to the ambient light detection module s .

At block computer executable instructions of the ambient light detection module s may be executed to determine an intensity of ambient light based at least in part on the photocurrent generated by the transistor functioning as a phototransistor during the second portion of the addressing interval. More specifically computer executable instructions of the ambient light detection module s may be executed to determine an intensity of the ambient light from one or more digital signals indicative of one or more photocurrents generated by one or more transistors functioning as phototransistors during the second portion of the addressing interval.

At block computer executable instructions of the light modulation module s may be executed to cause a first group of transistors to drive corresponding pixels to modulate an amount of light transmitted through the corresponding pixels. More specifically computer executable instructions of the light modulation module s may be executed to provide signals to the timing controller which may cause the row driver and the column driver to apply source gate voltages and data voltages to the first group of transistors to control an amount of light transmitted through the corresponding pixels.

At block computer executable instructions of the ambient light sensing control module s may be executed to cause a second group of dedicated transistors to be reverse biased to function as phototransistors. More specifically computer executable instructions of the ambient light sensing control module s may be executed to generate one or more signals indicative of a reverse bias voltage to be applied to the second group of transistors. Reverse biasing the second group of dedicated transistors may cause the transistors to generate photocurrents in response to impingement of incident ambient light. As previously described the generated photocurrents may be amplified by the amplifier and digitized by the ADC . The second group of dedicated transistors may be used solely for light detection and may not be used to control light transmission through corresponding pixels.

At block computer executable instructions of the ambient light detection module s may determine an intensity of detected ambient light based at least in part on photocurrents generated by the second group of dedicated transistors functioning as phototransistors. More specifically computer executable instructions of the ambient light detection module s may be executed to determine an intensity of the ambient light based on the digital values received from the ADC that indicate the magnitude of the photocurrents generated in the second group of dedicated transistors functioning as phototransistors.

It should be appreciated that the methods and of respectively merely represent example methods for using display components for light sensing. Various modifications to these example methods are also within the scope of this disclosure. For example rather than using a time division multiplexing approach or a dedicated group of transistors for sensing ambient light a group of photodiodes may instead be used. The photodiodes may be provided at various pixel positions in addition to or in lieu of transistors.

At block computer executable instructions of the ambient light detection module s may be executed to determine an intensity of ambient light using a first group of transistors functioning as phototransistors or using a group of photodiodes.

At block computer executable instructions of the ambient light detection module s may be executed to determine a color temperature of the ambient light. In certain example embodiments computer executable instructions of the ambient light detection module s may be executed to determine a color temperature of ambient light by comparing signals received from phototransistors or photodiodes associated with different color sub pixels. For example the ambient light detection module s may compare photocurrents generated by reversed biased transistors associated with red sub pixels to photocurrents generated by reverse biased transistors associated with blue and or green sub pixels to determine a color temperature of the incoming ambient light.

At block computer executable instructions of the light modulation module s may be executed to cause a second group of transistors to drive corresponding pixels to modulate an amount of light transmitted through the corresponding pixels based at least in part on an intensity of the ambient light and or the color temperature. More specifically computer executable instructions of the light modulation module s may be executed to generate one or more signals that may be supplied to the timing controller which may in turn cause the row driver and the column driver to supply based on the received signal s gate source voltages and data voltages respectively to the second group of transistors to cause the amount of light transmitted through corresponding pixels to be modulated accordingly. For example for a greater intensity of ambient light lower data voltages may be applied to the second group of transistors to increase the amount of light transmitted through corresponding pixels. As another example if the color temperature indicates that the ambient light is shifted towards a particular portion of the visible light spectrum the light modulation module s may provide signals to the timing controller to cause the driving circuitry to supply voltages to the second group of transistors that modify the color temperature of light transmitted through corresponding pixels to compensate for the shift in the ambient light.

One or more operations of the methods and may have been described above as being performed by one or more components of the device or more specifically by one or more one or more program modules executing on such a device . It should be appreciated however that any of the operations of methods or may be performed at least in part in a distributed manner by one or more other devices or systems or more specifically by one or more program modules applications or the like executing on such devices. In addition it should be appreciated that processing performed in response to execution of computer executable instructions provided as part of an application program module or the like may be interchangeably described herein as being performed by the application or the program module itself or by a device on which the application program module or the like is executing. While the operations of the method may be described in the context of the illustrative device it should be appreciated that such operations may be implemented in connection with numerous other system configurations.

The operations described and depicted in the illustrative method of may be carried out or performed in any suitable order as desired in various example embodiments of the disclosure. Additionally in certain example embodiments at least a portion of the operations may be carried out in parallel. Furthermore in certain example embodiments less more or different operations than those depicted in may be performed.

Although specific embodiments of the disclosure have been described one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that numerous other modifications and alternative embodiments are within the scope of the disclosure. For example any of the functionality and or processing capabilities described with respect to a particular device or component may be performed by any other device or component. Further while various illustrative implementations and architectures have been described in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other modifications to the illustrative implementations and architectures described herein are also within the scope of this disclosure.

Certain aspects of the disclosure are described above with reference to block and flow diagrams of systems methods apparatuses and or computer program products according to example embodiments. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and the flow diagrams respectively may be implemented by execution of computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some embodiments. Further additional components and or operations beyond those depicted in blocks of the block and or flow diagrams may be present in certain embodiments.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams may be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Program modules applications or the like disclosed herein may include one or more software components including for example software objects methods data structures or the like. Each such software component may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution cause at least a portion of the functionality described herein e.g. one or more operations of the illustrative methods described herein to be performed.

A software component may be coded in any of a variety of programming languages. An illustrative programming language may be a lower level programming language such as an assembly language associated with a particular hardware architecture and or operating system platform. A software component comprising assembly language instructions may require conversion into executable machine code by an assembler prior to execution by the hardware architecture and or platform.

Another example programming language may be a higher level programming language that may be portable across multiple architectures. A software component comprising higher level programming language instructions may require conversion to an intermediate representation by an interpreter or a compiler prior to execution.

Other examples of programming languages include but are not limited to a macro language a shell or command language a job control language a script language a database query or search language or a report writing language. In one or more example embodiments a software component comprising instructions in one of the foregoing examples of programming languages may be executed directly by an operating system or other software component without having to be first transformed into another form.

A software component may be stored as a file or other data storage construct. Software components of a similar type or functionally related may be stored together such as for example in a particular directory folder or library. Software components may be static e.g. pre established or fixed or dynamic e.g. created or modified at the time of execution .

Software components may invoke or be invoked by other software components through any of a wide variety of mechanisms. Invoked or invoking software components may comprise other custom developed application software operating system functionality e.g. device drivers data storage e.g. file management routines other common routines and services etc. or third party software components e.g. middleware encryption or other security software database management software file transfer or other network communication software mathematical or statistical software image processing software and format translation software .

Software components associated with a particular solution or system may reside and be executed on a single platform or may be distributed across multiple platforms. The multiple platforms may be associated with more than one hardware vendor underlying chip technology or operating system. Furthermore software components associated with a particular solution or system may be initially written in one or more programming languages but may invoke software components written in another programming language.

Computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a special purpose computer or other particular machine a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that execution of the instructions on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus causes one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams to be performed. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium CRSM that upon execution may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable storage medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process.

Additional types of CRSM that may be present in any of the devices described herein may include but are not limited to programmable random access memory PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the information and which can be accessed. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of CRSM. Alternatively computer readable communication media CRCM may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein CRSM does not include CRCM.

Although embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the embodiments. Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments could include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

