---

title: Rare earth spatial/spectral microparticle barcodes for labeling of objects and tissues
abstract: Polymer microparticles spatially and spectrally encoded using upconversion nanocrystals (UCN) are described for labeling of articles and tissues. UCN having spectrally distinguishable emission spectra are disposed in different portions of an encoding region of each microparticle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09528144&OS=09528144&RS=09528144
owner: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
number: 09528144
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
The present application claims benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 801 351 filed Mar. 15 2013 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 800 995 filed Mar. 15 2013 each of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. FA8721 05 C 0002 awarded by the U.S. Air Force and under Grant Nos. DMR 1006147 and CMMI 1120724 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Many industries e.g. pharmaceuticals banks fine art are interested in labeling of objects with labels that are resistant to spoofing or counterfeiting. There are currently many different technologies for labeling objects with codes such as one dimensional barcodes e.g. UPC barcodes two dimensional codes e.g. QR codes and radio frequency identification RFID tags. However there is a need for smaller more unobtrusive labeling that is resistant to spoofing or counterfeiting.

Additional features functions and benefits of the disclosed methods systems and media will be apparent from the description which follows particularly when read in conjunction with the appended figures.

There are many challenges for labeling objects with labels that are resistant to counterfeiting or spoofing. For example unique encoding of single units within information intensive processes like pharmaceutical packaging may entail encoding capacities of 10 10and high throughput particle synthesis. As another example exposure to harsh environments for some applications requires thermal insensitivity biocompatibility and or chemical resistance. The complexity and cost of readout systems for some labeling technologies can limit implementation. Some labeling applications require low error readout in the presence of confounding factors e.g. complex background obscurants noise which is a difficult technical challenge.

Embodiments include polymer microparticles for labeling of articles and or tissues methods of producing the microparticles and methods of labeling using the microparticles. Each hydrogel microparticle includes an encoded region. The encoded region includes multiple portions with one or more of the portions including an associated plurality of upconversion nanocrystals UCNs with a distinct spectral signature. The multiple portions of the encoding region enable spatial encoding of the microparticle. The associated plurality of UCNs for each region is selected from a set of spectrally distinguishable UCNs which enables spectral encoding for each portion of the microparticle. By combining spatial and spectral encoding the microparticles have massive multiplexing capabilities with superior scaling capability.

The coding scales exponentially as Cfor asymmetric particles and as C 2 for symmetric particles where C is the number of distinguishable spectral signatures UCN colors and S is the number of spatial features e.g. microparticle stripes . For example for a symmetric microparticle with S encoding portions and a set of C different spectrally distinguishable nanocrystals the following equation lists the number of codes or unique identifiers that would be available 

For example about 20 000 unique identifiers codes can be generated for a system in which the encoding region of symmetric microparticles has six portions and each portion includes a plurality of UCNs selected from a set of five different types of spectrally distinct nanocrystals. As another example about 500 000 unique identifiers codes can be generated for a system in which the encoding region of the symmetric microparticle has six portions and each portion includes a plurality of UCNs selected from a set of nine different types of spectrally distinct nanocrystals. Thus a modest number of colors may be coupled with a similarly modest number of stripes to yield considerable encoding capacities that scale rapidly with incremental changes to either quantity. To increase the labeling capacity asymmetric microparticles could be employed. For example an asymmetric microparticle with six portions with each portion including one of nine different types of spectrally distinct nanocrystals would produce over a million unique identifiers codes. To increase the labeling capacity a combination of multiple microparticles could be used to label an object.

Some embodiments combine spatial patterning with rare earth upconversion nanocrystals UCNs single wavelength near infrared excitation and portable charge coupled device CCD based decoding to distinguish particles synthesized by means of flow lithography. Some embodiments exhibit large exponentially scalable encoding capacities 10 an ultralow decoding false alarm rate 

Some embodiments employ a robust encoding method for compatibility with high throughput particle synthesis and portable CCD based decoding. In some embodiments the resulting particles and decoding system exhibit dramatic insensitivity to particle chemistry enabling tuning of encoding capacity and decoding error rate independently of particle material properties as well as the capacity for straightforward magnetic manipulation. In the example described below the inventors demonstrate quantitatively predictable decoding of both temperature resistant and biocompatible particles in challenging realistic environments. With single particle encoding capacities in excess of 1 million and error rates of less than 1 part per billion ppb some embodiments expand the practically accessible number of codes for applications like forensic product labeling and multiplexed bioassays by orders of magnitude. Methods described herein may be employed to extend the use of encoded particles to a broad and evolving range of previously unexplored industrial applications. Embodiments may be employed to produce covert durable anti counterfeiting labels with massive encoding capacity from small sets of uniquely encoded particles.

For example in some embodiments a first plurality of UCNs with a first spectral signature is disposed in a first portion of the encoded region. A second portion of the encoded region includes a second plurality of UCNs with a second spectral signature different than the first spectral signature. In some embodiments the encoded region of the microparticle also includes a third portion having a third plurality of UCNs. In some embodiments the encoded region of the microparticle also includes a fourth portion having a fourth plurality of UCNs. In some embodiments the encoded region of the microparticle also includes a fifth portion having a fifth plurality of UCNs. The plurality of microparticles in each portion of the encoded region is selected from a set of spectrally distinguishable UCNs.

One of ordinary skill in the art in view of the present disclosure would recognize that each microparticle may include an encoding region with fewer than six portions and associated pluralities of UCNs e.g. five portions four portions three portions two portions or more than six portions and associated pluralities of UCNs e.g. portions seven portions eight portions nine portions ten portions etc. .

The spectral signature associated with a plurality of UCNs disposed in a portion of the encoded region is also referred to herein as the spectral signature of the portion of the encoded region. In some embodiments two or more portions of the encoded region may have the same spectral signature. In some embodiments two or more portions of the encoded region with the same spectral signature may be adjacent to each other. In some embodiments any portions of the encoded region with the same spectral signature must be separated from each other by one or more portions of the encoded region having different spectral signature s . In some embodiments each portion of the encoded region must have a spectral signature different from that of every other portion of the encoded region. In some embodiments one or more portions of the encoded region do not include nanocrystals so that the portion or portions is blank without a spectral signature. The spectral signature of a UCN includes information associated with the emission spectrum of the UCN that distinguishes it from another type of nanocrystal. In some embodiments the spectral signature of a UCN or of a plurality of similar UCNs may include the integrated intensity of emission of one spectral band or emission in one spectral range versus another spectral band or emission in another spectral range . A spectral signature or information regarding a spectral signature may be referred to herein as a spectral code.

One of ordinary skill in the art in view of the present disclosure would recognize that the set of UCNs may include fewer than nine e.g. eight seven six five four three two or more than nine e.g. ten eleven twelve etc. different types of spectrally distinguishable UCNs. Further one of skill in the art in view of the present disclosure would recognize that UCNs having different spectra than those shown and UCNs than emit in different bands than those shown also fall within the scope of embodiments. For example shows an emission spectrum for a UCN labeled UCN10 that may be used in the set as an alternative to any of UCN1 UCN9 or in addition to UCN1 UCN9. To augment encoding capacity the palette of spectrally distinct UCNs may be further expanded by adjusting Yb Er Tm ratios with negligible impact on the decoding error rate.

The spectral signature of a plurality of UCNs may include information related to the ratio or ratios of the integrated intensities emitted in various bands e.g. the ratio of the red band to the green band or vice versa the ratio of the red band to the blue band or vice versa the ratio of the blue band to the green band or vice versa or any combination of the aforementioned . These ratios can be defined with respect to the emission spectra of the UCNs. However in some embodiments the spectral signature of a plurality of UCNs may include both information regarding the intensity of light emitted in various bands and include information regarding the responsivity of the detector or image sensor to be used. Any detector image sensor or imaging device may be employed. For example the detector or imaging device may be a charge coupled device CCD a photomultiplier tube based device PMT a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS imaging sensor an avalanche photodiode array APD imaging device etc. In some embodiments an imaging sensor with more than one color channel may be employed.

For example Table 1 below shows the expected spectral response of a CCD device to the emission spectra of the UCN3 UCN7 and UCN10 types of UCNs see above for emission spectra . The expected spectral response is a convolution of the emission spectrum for type of UCN with the image sensor channel spectral responsivity shown in . Specifically Table 1 shows the expected integrated total intensity for each color channel due to emission of the UCNs. Table 1 also includes ratios for the expected total intensity for the green channel to the red channel for the blue channel to the red channel and for the blue cannel to the green channel. Expressing the integrated intensities as ratios for different color channels reduces or eliminates the need for calibration to determine the absolute intensity for any particular color channel or emission band.

Recent technologies have employed microparticles including fluorescent coding for biochemical or chemical assays. The inventors have found that employing UCNs for identifying different encoded regions of a microparticle has many benefits when compared with other techniques currently used for encoding microparticles. For example some other techniques employ one dimensional or two dimensional thickness variations or holes in a fluorescently labeled coded region of a microparticle for identification.

In contrast with UCNs having multiple narrow emission bands commonly used fluorescent labeling molecules e.g. fluorophores each tend to emit in a single broad band e.g. DAPI fluorescent dye has a single emission band that is about 100 nm wide FWHM . In microparticles using fluorophores for encoding the broad emission bands of the fluorophores limits the number of different fluorophores that may be employed without having significant overlap between emission bands and resulting ambiguity in identification. In addition the absence of multiple emission bands for a single fluorophore may require the use of an external calibration standard. In contrast UCNs have multiple narrow emission bands in different portions of the visible spectrum e.g. separated by tens to hundreds of nm . The ratio of intensity of emission in various bands can be used to distinguish between different nanocrystals and also acts as an internal calibration standard obviating the need for external calibration.

Microparticles using UCNs for encoding may experience less reduction of the signal to noise ratio due to autoluminescence than microparticles using fluorophores for encoding. Luminescent UCNs absorb light in one range of wavelengths and emit light in a shorter range of wavelengths e.g. absorb in the NIR range and emit in the visible range . In contrast commonly used fluorophores and quantum dots usually absorb light in a wavelength range and emit light in a longer wavelength range e.g. absorbing in the ultraviolet range and emitting in the visible range . For example the commonly used fluorophore 4 6 diamidino 2 phenylindole DAPI has absorption maximum around 370 nm UV and an emission maximum around 450 nm blue . Illumination of the fluorophores for identification e.g. with UV light may result in unintended autofluorescence of materials and solvents in the visible wavelengths that decreases the signal to noise ratio which can be a significant problem with biological samples. Because the nanocrystals described herein are upconverting the NIR light used to excite the nanocrystals generally does not cause autoluminescence in the shorter wavelengths of the visible range. Thus the use of UCN may improve the signal to noise ratio for an encoded region.

Microparticles using different types of UCNs for encoding may require only a single narrow band excitation source as opposed to microparticles using different types of fluorophores which may require multiple light sources to provide excitation in different wavelength bands. For example a 980 nm light source with a power density of less than 10 W cm e.g. an near infra red NIR laser diode may be used as a single excitation source for multiple different types of UCNs. In contrast microparticles using common fluorophores for parts of the visual light spectrum such as DAPI blue Oregon green 500 green and ALEXA FLUOR 633 red with absorption maximums at 350 nm 503 nm and 632 nm respectively may require multiple different excitation sources such as a UV laser an argon ion laser and a red helium neon laser.

In some embodiments the UCNs are rare earth nanocrystals that are bright anti Stokes emitters with tunable spectral properties. Individual UCNs absorb continuous wave CW NIR light at a single wavelength and emit in multiple narrow bands of the visible spectrum. Large anti Stokes shifts reduce spectral interference from sample autofluorescence and lead to enhanced signal to noise ratios. In contrast to M ink an optically active dye in which nanostructured magnetic materials reflect different wavelengths of light or quantum dots these benefits persist even in the presence of obscurants or a complex reflective background. Tuning of emission intensities in multiple bands by adjusting relative stoichiometries of lanthanide dopants permits ratiometrically unique spectral encoding in which the ratio of integrated intensities in two or more bands serve as the code rather than absolute intensity. In some embodiments external spectral standards e.g. as required by porous silicon crystals precise dye loading e.g. as used with quantum dots and luminex sensitive instrumentations e.g. as required by M Ink and extensive calibration may be unnecessary for readout enabling the use of standard CCD imaging for decoding.

Lanthanide doped NaYFUCNs were made via a scalable batch hydrothermal synthesis which is only one of numerous known protocols for synthesis of NaYFUCNs.

Aqueous rare earth chloride salts sodium hydroxide ammonium fluoride ethanol and oleic acid were heated in a TEFLON coated stainless steel pressure vessel. Specifically 2 ml of ReCl 0.4 M RE Y Yb Er Gd Tm and 2 ml of NHF 2 M were added to a mixture of 3 ml of NaOH 0.6 M 10 ml of ethanol and 10 ml of oleic acid. The solution was transferred to a 50 ml TEFLON lined autoclave and heated at 200 C. for 2 hours. The resulting products were centrifuged to collect the nanocrystals which were then repeatedly washed with ethanol and deionized water and then re dispersed in cyclohexane.

During synthesis the inventors used the concentration of various lanthanide dopants and the reaction time and temperature to improve the luminescence intensity of the nanocrystals and to alter the upconversion spectrum of the nanocrystals.

The synthesis procedure described above can produce NaYFUCNs in two different phases having different crystal structures an phase with a cubic crystal structure and a phase with a hexagonal crystal structure. Generally speaking luminescence intensity is significantly higher in phase crystals than in phase crystals due to the lower ratio of surface defects to crystal volume in the phase. Without high levels of gadolinium doping relatively high temperatures must be maintained for relatively long times e.g. 350 C. for 24 hours to induce the phase transition in the nanocrystals. In contrast the inventors doped with 30 mol gadolinium Gd to induce the phase transition at a lower temperature 200 C. held for a shorter time 2 hours . The Gd has little to no effect on the shape of the upconversion emission spectrum generated due to the presence of the other dopants.

Increasing reaction time and increasing reaction temperature tended to increase the luminescence intensity of the UCNs due to increased nanocrystal size. Increasing the nanocrystal size decreases the ratio of surface area to volume for the nanocrystals thereby decreasing the ratio of surface defects to crystal volume. Further luminescence for larger nanocrystals was less likely to be red shifted due to preferential quenching of high frequency emission which can occur in smaller nanocrystals.

The concentrations of dopants other than Gd were used to change the upconversion emission spectrum. Spectrally distinct UCN were produced by adjusting the relative stoichiometries of the lanthanide ions Yb Er and Tm in the UCN reaction premix. The lanthanide dopant stoichiometries have relatively little impact on the UCN nanostructure and surface chemistry decoupling control of the emission spectrum from the particle chemistry and resulting material properties. Ytterbium Yb is an important dopant for bright multicolor emission because it acts as a high NIR absorption cross section absorption and energy transfer agent for upconverting emission. Increasing the Yb percentage tends to red shift the upconversion spectrum increasing the ratio of the emission intensity in the red band 640 670 nm relative to the emission intensity in the green band 520 560 nm in Erbium Er co doped crystals. illustrates how increasing the Yb concentration shifts the emission spectrum and shifts overall emission color from green to orange. Doping with Er at low levels 2 or less leads to narrow peaks centered at 550 nm and 650 nm. Overall emission color for materials doped with Yb and Er can range from green to red depending on the Yb concentration. Doping with Thulium Tm at very low levels 0.2 leads to emission in the blue band 445 500 nm and a more intense peak at 800 nm.

Ten different types of spectrally distinguishable lanthanide doped NaYFUCNs labeled UCN1 UCN10 were produced. The spectra of the different types of lanthanide doped NaYFUCNs appear in . The overall colors of the UCN1 UCN9 types when irradiated with an NIR laser diode are shown in which includes a luminescence image of suspensions of UCN1 UCN9 in cyclohexane upon 980 nm near infra red NIR excitation. As illustrated by the colors of the UCNs can be readily distinguished by the naked eye. The composition of the dopant used for each type of nanocrystals is listed in Table 2 below. The Y concentration which makes up the balance of each dopant concentration is in square brackets because it is not an active dopant.

The inventors made several different batches of the same type of nanocrystals to confirm that the emission spectra were consistent from batch to batch. Upconversion luminescence spectra of UCNs were measured in a poly urethane acrylate PUA prepolymer solution 9 1 PUA PI v v with a fluorescence spectrometer with a 1 W CW diode laser 980 nm used as the excitation source. shows the normalized emission spectra for three different batches of UCN7 type nanocrystals. As shown emission spectra for the three different batches are practically indistinguishable on the combined graph.

The high Gd content of UCN1 UCN10 makes the UCNs paramagnetic and subject to physical manipulation through external magnetic fields. The inventors confirmed this by manipulating the nanocrystals suspended in vials using external ferromagnets. includes luminescence images of UCNs in liquid in a vial a settled to the bottom of the vial with no applied magnetic field and b with an applied magnetic field from a ferromagnet drawing the UCNs to the left side of the vial. is a graph of data for magnetization as a function of applied magnetic field for UCN4 which was obtained using a superconducting quantum interference device SQUID .

The synthesis process described above produced nanocrystals capped with oleic acid a fatty acid with a 17 carbon hydrocarbon tail. As a result of the oleic acid capping the resulting nanocrystals were insoluble in aqueous media which created problems with dispersing the nanocrystals in aqueous or hydrophilic source materials. Furthermore the nanocrystals with oleic acid tails luminesced brightly only in hydrophobic media. Exposure of the oleic acid capped UCNs to water caused significant aggregation and a high degree of reversible luminescence attenuation due to surface defect mediated quenching.

The inventors utilized a method of modifying the oleic acid tail on the UCNs to improve their solubility in water and increase their luminescence in hydrophilic media. The oleic acid double bond was oxidized to form an alcohol and then cleaved thereby releasing the outward facing hydrophobic part of the oleic acid chain and forming a carboxylic acid group.

The specific procedure employed to modify the oleic acid tail of the UCNs involved adding 0.1 gram of UCNs to a mixture of cyclohexane 100 mL tert butanol 70 mL water 10 mL and 5 wt KCOsolution 5 mL and stirring for about 20 minutes at room temperature. Then 20 mL of Lemieux von Rudloff reagent 5.7 mM KMnOand 0.1 M NaIOaqueous solution was added dropwise to the solution. The resulting mixture was stirred for 48 hours. The product was centrifuged and washed with deionized water acetone and ethanol. Subsequently the UCNs were dispersed in hydrochloric acid 50 mL of pH 4 and stirred for 1 hour forming carboxyl terminated nanocrystals which were washed 5 times with deionized water and collected by centrifugation. The resulting carboxyl terminated nanocrystals dispersed without aggregation in aqueous media and luminesced strongly in hydrophilic media. The surface modification is useful if hydrophilic materials are being used for the microparticle body however it may not be needed for hydrophobic materials like PUA.

The inventors developed a method for modifying the carboxyl terminated UCNs to form acrylate terminated UCNs that could be cross linked with the polymer material of the microparticle. The method included mixing 200 l of EDC 20 mg ml and 200 l of sulfo N hydroxysuccinimide sulfo NHS 20 mg ml with 200 l of carboxy terminated UCNs in 2 N morpholino ethanesufonic acid MES buffer 0.1 M pH 6.0 40 mg ml and stirring for two hours at room temperature to activate the surface as carboxylic acid groups. The NHS activated UCNs were centrifuged and washed with water. The precipitate was re dispersed 200 l of PBS buffer 0.1 M 5 ml pH 7.2 containing 2 hydroxyethylacrylate 20 mg ml . The mixture was then stirred for 24 hours at room temperature. The resulting acrylated UCNs were purified by repeated centrifugation 3000 rpm 5 min 5 times and re suspended in deionized water.

The first encoded region source material and the second encoded region source material are cross linked forming the first portion of an encoded region and the second portion of the encoded region . In embodiments with more than two portions of the encoded region each portion is cross linked with one or more other portions of the encoded region forming the contiguous microparticle.

In some embodiments the UCNs for at least some of the portions of the encoded region have a hydrophilic surface. In some embodiments the UCNs for at least some of the portions of the encoded region have a hydrophilic ligand. In some embodiments providing the first encoded region source material and providing the second encoded region source material may include modifying the first plurality of nanocrystals and the second plurality of nanocrystals to have a hydrophilic surface and or a hydrophilic ligand. Having a hydrophilic surface and or a hydrophilic ligand may aid in dispersing the UCNs in an aqueous or hydrophilic source material. For example in some tissue labeling applications a hydrogel material may be used for the body.

In some embodiments the UCNs for at least some of the portions of the encoded region have acrylated ligands for cross linking with the polymers of the hydrogel matrix. In some embodiments providing the first encoded region source material and providing the second encoded region source material may include modifying the first plurality of nanocrystals and the second plurality of nanocrystals to include acrylated ligands. In some embodiments the plurality of UCNs is bound to the polymer material at the time of particle synthesis through an acrylate group.

In other embodiments another type of covalent linkage could be made between the UCNs and the polymer matrix. The UCNs can be bound to the polymer matrix using any number of covalent attachment mechanisms e.g. amide linkages disulfides esters ethers aldehydes ketones cycloadditions click chemistry azides and carbamates .

In some embodiments the body includes a hydrophobic polymer material such as PUA. In these embodiment the nanocrystals employed may have a hydrophobic surface or a hydrophobic ligand. Oleic acid capped nanocrystals need not be modified to disperse in a hydrophobic material such as PUA.

In some embodiments at least some of the UCNs are doped with rare earth metals. In some embodiments at least some of the UCNs are doped with a composition including at least 30 mol Gd. In some embodiments at least some of the UCNs are paramagnetic.

In some embodiments the material for each portion of the encoded region is the same material. In some embodiments the material for some portions of the encoded region is different than the material for the other portions of the encoded region.

As noted above in some embodiments the UCNs have a hydrophilic surface. In some embodiments the UCNs have a hydrophilic ligand. Having a hydrophilic surface and or a hydrophilic ligand may aid in dispersing the UCNs in the source material.

In some embodiments the method also includes co flowing the source material for each encoded region to an area for cross linking. For example a stop flow lithography SFL technique may be employed for forming the microparticles. In SFL viscous UV sensitive pre polymer solutions which may be referred to herein as source materials undergo laminar co flow into a small microfluidic device which may be made of polydimethylsiloxane PDMS . For organic synthesis the microfluidic device may be made from perfluoropolyether PFPE . The flow of the pre polymer solutions is stopped for a brief period in which the pre polymer solutions in the device are exposed to photomask patterned ultraviolet light. The UV light causes cross linking polymerization or both within milliseconds in the region delineated by the photomask forming micro sized polymeric particles. The shape of each particle is defined by the photomask. The composition of each striped portion of the particle is determined by the composition of the laminar co flowing streams e.g. the source materials . The SFL technique is particularly well suited for spatial and spectral encoding of microparticles using nanocrystals because of the ability to control both overall microparticle particle shape and the composition of different striped portions of the microparticle.

Although photomask is shown having a pattern that forms four microparticles simultaneously in some embodiments the photomask may have a pattern for forming more than four microparticles simultaneously. In some embodiments only one microparticle may be formed at a time. In some embodiments a photomask may have a pattern that produces microparticles having different shapes simultaneously. In some embodiments the photomask may produce asymmetric particles and or particles having nonrectangular shapes.

Although microparticle is shown with six encoded regions in other embodiments there may be more or fewer than six encoded regions. For example shows luminescence images of various microparticles each having between two to six encoded regions. Microparticles with an additional encoding region e.g. seven stripes instead of six would boost single particle encoding capacities to over 10 million while requiring little more than an additional input port on the microfluidic synthesis device.

For further details regarding the SFL technique for forming contiguous polymer microparticles see U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2012 0316082 A1 published Dec. 13 2012 and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2012 0003755 A1 published Jan. 5 2012 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety An exemplary flow lithography system is described below with respect to

The inventors produced polyethylene glycol diacrylate PEG DA polymer microparticles by stop flow lithography. Initially the inventors made sets of microparticles with each set including only one type of nanocrystal to determine whether incorporating the nanocrystals into microparticles changes the emission spectral of the nanocrystals. For each of the nanocrystal types UCN1 UCN10 fifty PEG DA hydrogel microparticles were produced. A CCD device was used to obtain a three color image red channel green channel and blue channel of each microparticle while illuminated by NIR light producing a red channel image a green channel image and a blue channel image. For each channel image the intensity pixel value within the boundaries of each microparticle was integrated yielding a pixel value for each channel for each microparticle. includes histograms of the integrated pixel values for the red green and blue channels from fifty microparticles for the UCN1 UCN9 types. The histograms for some of the types also include an inset image of a representative NIR illuminated microparticle. As shown by the inset images a stop flow lithography process can be used to make different microparticle shapes.

The mean measured integrated intensity values from fifty microparticles for each type of UCNs were then compared with the expected integrated intensity data obtained from a convolution of the UCN emission data and the image sensor response curves. Table 3 below includes measured mean integrated intensity data the standard deviation and the coefficient of variability for UCNs in microparticles. Expected integrated intensity data based on emission spectra from UCNs in solution are also included for comparison. As shown in the table the mean integrated intensity and the expected integrated intensity values are consistent. The average coefficient of variation across all particles and UCN colors was 2 . This corresponds to an average standard deviation of 2.1 RGB units on a scale of 255 for separately acquired images of separately synthesized particles indicating outstanding particle to particle reproducibility. In addition error ellipses are non overlapping to better than 6 sigma indicating that decoding error rates of less than 1 ppb are to be expected. Thus if the emission spectrum of a type of nanocrystals is known the integrated intensity for detection in a color channel can be reliably predicted.

Thus the inventors demonstrated noise robust spectral discrimination of six different types of UCNs integrated in polymer particles illuminated using an NIR diode laser and imaged using a standard CCD camera. Further as shown by the green channel vs. red channel plot the red channel integrated intensity and the green channel integrated intensity are sufficient to distinguish between the six different types of nanocrystals. The scatter plots reveal that cluster overlap occurs only past six standard deviations from the mean implying an expected error rate of less than 1 part per billion ppb .

The inventors also compared different batches of microparticles produced at different times to determine the reliability and the predictability of the integrated intensities of microparticles from different batches. Five separate batches of fifty microparticles were produced each batch including the same UCN4 type nanocrystals. The microparticles were illuminated with an NIR light source and color images were obtained using a CCD camera. Integrated intensity data was generated for microparticles in all five batches and the average integrated intensity values for each batch were compared. is a graph comparing the average integrated intensities for the green channel and for the red channel for each batch of fifty microparticles. The integrated intensities in the red and green channels were consistent across the five batches. As expected there was no detected signal the blue channel. Table 4 below lists the measured red and green channel integrated intensity values for each batch showing the consistency and reproducibility of the spectral signature for different batches of microparticles.

The inventors confirmed that the oxidation and acrylation process does not change an emission spectrum of the UCNs. is a graph of emission spectra of UCN4 type nanocrystals after each step in the surface chemical modification of the UCNs e.g. before processing in cyclohexane after oxidation after acrylation and in PUA prepolymer solution . The spectra overlay each other establishing that surface chemistry modifications of the UCNs before incorporation into microparticles does not significantly affect emission spectra of the resulting particles.

The inventors also confirmed that there was no attenuation of the luminescence response of the nanocrystals integrated into hydrogel microparticles upon prolonged intense NIR irradiation due to photobleaching. is a graph of intensity as a function of time for hydrogel microparticles including UCN7 type nanocrystals upon continuous exposure to a 980 nm NIR light from a 1 W laser. This is in contrast to many commonly used fluorophores which exhibit attenuation due to photobleaching.

The inventors also compared the stability of hydrogel microparticles made with carboxyl terminated UCNs in which the nanocrystals are trapped in pores in the hydrogel matrix and hydrogel particles made with acrylated UCNs in which the nanocrystals are bonded to the hydrogel matrix via acrylates. includes graphs comparing intensity as a function of age of microparticles including acrylated UCN7 type nanocrystals and microparticles including carboxyl terminated UCN7 type nanocrystals without acrylation. As shown there is a reduction in emission intensity of the microparticles including carboxyl terminated UCNs without acrylation over 30 days presumably due to the UCNs diffusing out of the microparticles. In contrast the microparticles with acrylated UCNs showed no attenuation over 30 days of aging. Thus acrylation of the UCNs and subsequent bonding to the hydrogel matrix improves the luminescence stability e.g. the shelf life of the microparticles.

After establishing the predictability and reproducibility of the method for forming UCNs and the predictability and reproducibility of the spectra from hydrogel particles that each include only one type of UCNs the inventors produced PEG DA hydrogel microparticles and polyurethane acrylate PUA microparticles with both spectral and spatial encoding. The PUA microparticles are thermally and chemically resistant The PEG DA microparticles are biocompatible and mesoporous allowing diffusion of large biological macromolecules. For the more densely cross linked PUA particles hydrophobic UCN surface chemistry and large rod like UCN nanostructure enabled homogeneous and irreversible physical entrainment of the UCNs in the microparticle. In contrast stable integration of UCNs into microparticles involved use of hydrophilic surface chemistry with a UV active functional group on the UCNs for strong covalent incorporation as described above.

Specifically elongated polymer microparticles were produced that each included encoding region divided into multiple portions e.g. multiple stripes with each portion including a plurality of nanocrystals having distinguishable spectral signature. Although the microparticles produced included two three four five or six portions of an encoded region in some embodiments each microparticle may have an encoded region with more than six portions. In some embodiments some particles may have different number of portions than other microparticles. Although the hydrogel microparticles produced were rectangular and elongated in some embodiments the hydrogel microparticles may have a different aspect ratio and or a different shape. Further the microparticles produced may be symmetric or asymmetric.

The microparticles were produced by SFL using encoding region source materials. For a PEG DA hydrogel microparticle source material acrylated UCNs were dispersed in a PEG DA premixture solution yielding a mixture of 45 vol PEG DA Mn 700 40 vol UCNs 0.5 mg l 10 vol poly stylenesulfonate PSS and 5 vol DAROCUR 1173 photoinitiator PI . For a PUA microparticle source material 150 mg of UCNs were dispersed in 300 l of a 9 1 volume ratio PUA PI solution. The source materials were used to form contiguous microparticles using SFL as described above with respect to

A microfluidic device was fabricated from poly dimethylsiloxane PDMS for the SFL system. PDMS was mixed with a curing agent in a 10 1 ratio and degassed under vacuum for 30 min Degassed PDMS was poured onto an SU 8 master mold and cured overnight at 65 C. Channels were then cut out of the mold and bonded with a glass slide coated with partially cured PDMS in order to assure oxygen permeability. The assembled device was fully cured overnight at 65 C. The microfluidic channel in the microfluidic device of the SFL system was 300 m wide and 36 m high.

A photomask for the SFL was designed using a computer added drafting program and printed with a high resolution printer. The mask was placed in the field stop of a microscope before synthesis. A microfluidic device was fabricated from poly dimethylsiloxane PDMS for the SFL system. PDMS was mixed with a curing agent in a 10 1 ratio and degassed under vacuum for 30 min. Degassed PDMS was poured onto an SU 8 master mold.

The microfluidic channel of the SFL system was loaded with the composite monomer solution aligned on a microscope stage and subjected to a pressure driven flow. In every synthesis cycle the monomer flow was halted 350 ms and particles were photopolymerized in the device using UV light filtered through a dichroic filter set 365 nm wavelength light for 100 ns exposure tine . The polymerized particles were then covected into a collection tube for 500 ms. Synthesis occurred at a rate of 5 particles per second. After synthesis the particles were rinsed. The PUA particles were rinsed 8 times with ethanol PEG200 1 1 v v and stored in ethanol. The PEG particles were rinsed 3 times with 1 TET 1 TE with 0.05 v v Tween 20 .

Although PEG DA and PUA were used for the microparticles in the examples described herein any di acrylated monomers that have been used in stop flow lithography may be used for the encoded region. Further any di acrylated monomers into which UCNs either nanocrystals with modified surfaces or ligands or nanocrystals with unmodified surfaces or ligands may be well dispersed can be employed.

In an initial batch of encoded hydrogel microparticles used for testing each portion of the encoded region included a plurality of nanocrystals selected from the set of types UCN3 UCN4 UCN5 and UCN7 whose characteristics are described above. As used herein encoded microparticles refers to microparticles that each have one or more portions of the encoded region and that each have one or more types of spectrally distinguishable UCNs. Eight encoded microparticles were illuminated with the NIR diode laser and imaged using a standard CCD image sensor. The integrated intensity was calculated for the red and green channels of the image sensor. is a plot of the green channel integrated intensity vs. the red channel integrated intensity for each portion of the encoded region in the eight microparticles. As shown the integrated intensities for the portions of the encoded regions are clumped into groups corresponding to the UCN3 UCN4 UCN5 and UCN7 nanocrystals types. The ellipses are the five sigma Gaussian fits to the data from the particles having only one type of nanocrystals which may be considered the training data. All of the data points for the encoded particles fell within the five sigma Gaussian fit for the training data.

The encoded microparticles can be used for many different types of labeling application. In some embodiments a representative population of particles covers a large portion of the packaged surface. In some embodiments an individual code consisting of a sequence or grouping of multiple particles placed at a well defined location. A sequence or grouping of particles on a surface can be used to uniquely identify an object with an encoding capacity of C for asymmetric particles and C 2 for symmetric particles where N is the number of particles deposited. Randomly embedding 10 particles from a set of just 1000 unique asymmetric particles yields an encoding capacity of 1000 or 10 enough to uniquely barcode every manufactured product on Earth.

The inventors used a combination of two portion two stripe three portion three stripe and four portion four stripe encoded microparticles with each stripe including one of the UCN1 UCN9 types of nanoparticles for labeling a polyvinyl chloride PVC blister pack material as shown in . The encoded particles were dispersed in a laminating solution specifically 9 1 by volume solution of PUA photoinitiator. Two microliters of prepolymer solution was dropped onto the blister pack. After ten minutes the PUA was crosslinked with 365 nm UV light for 30 s.

Further includes a graph of the integrated intensity of each portion of each microparticle for the red and green color channels. The tight clustering establishes that the spectral signatures of each portion or stripe are readily distinguishable. Further all of the data falls within the five sigma uncertainty limit determined from the training set of single color hydrogel microparticles. Despite the complex background of the blister pack surface all decoded spectra fell within 5 sigma of the training centroids. Remarkably PUA based RGB training data is not required as shown by successful use of PEGDA based training data for UCNs 3 5 and 7 .

The PUA microparticles withstand exposure to high temperature casting up to 260 C. in molten plastics as ubiquitous as poly ethylene terephthalate PET with no impact on decoding unlocking applications where durable embedded barcodes are of use. The inventors experimentally established that the PUA microparticles can withstand conventional polyethylene terephthalate PET processing. To simulate PET processing the PUA encoded microparticles were loaded into a vial containing PET granules. The vial containing the mixture of PUA microparticles and PET chips was heated to 260 C. until the PET granules completely melted. The melted microparticle and PET solution was dropped onto a bottom glass slide and then sandwiched by a top glass slide. The sandwiched glass slides were reheated until the sandwiched solution was dispersed to produce an even PET film. Luminescence images were obtained before and after the melting process. is a luminescence image of two PUA encoded microparticles illuminated with NIR light after simulated PET processing. includes graphs of the integrated intensity for various color codes in 10 microparticles after PET processing. As shown by the graphs in the emission of the coded microparticles did not appear to be affected by the simulated PET processing meaning that PUA microparticles could be used in PET source material that undergoes PET processing.

The PUA microparticles are also insensitive to repetitive illumination and ambient light a distinct advantage over fluorescently labeled particles which must be stored in the dark.

A survey of remaining technical risks might lead one to suspect a need for dense particle packing and an accompanying accuracy tradeoff due to potential particle overlap. However the small number of particles required eliminates this challenge. For instance for the deposition of 10 particles with dimensions of 250 70 microns and a field of view of roughly 10 mm inter particle spacing of 300 500 microns at maximum would be needed to provide a comfortable buffer at the edges of the field. In comparison low end consumer inkjet printers can reliably space individual dots of ink at 300 dots per inch or one dot every 80 microns enabling rendering accurate particle deposition.

The PUA microparticles can be used for surface labeling of many different types of articles. For example the inventors coated a polyester thread with microparticles. The particles were mixed in a 9 1 PUA to PI solution which was used to coat the thread. The solution was then photo polymerized using a 365 nm UV lamp. includes images of the microparticles coated on the thread under normal illumination in the top image and under NIR illumination in the bottom images. The images under normal illumination show that the microparticles are unobtrusive. The microparticles were also applied to currency as shown in .

Microparticles may be particularly well suited to labeling for anti counterfeiting purposes because the microparticles are relatively easy to image and it is relatively easy to get quantitative spectral information from the image but it would be difficult for a counterfeiter to spoof the microparticles with spatial spectral signatures and arrangement of microparticles having the same properties.

The inventors also used the microparticles for labeling of the bulk of objects. For example shows a polyvinyl alcohol PVA key formed with 3 D printing. The bulk of the PVA key includes about 12 microparticles. As shown in the detail on the left the microparticles are not visible under normal illumination. However under NIR illumination the microparticles can clearly be distinguished.

In the PVA ABS and PLA keys the microparticles were embedded in the bulk of the key by coating them on plastic filaments that were passed through the extruding element of the 3D printer. However in other embodiments the microparticles could be added to the bulk of a material before forming or molding the material e.g. via injection molding or blow molding .

For example a polystyrene key was cast at high temperature with microparticles in the bulk of the material see . Silicone molding material was poured onto a key and cured for 24 hours to generate a mold. UCN integrated PUA particles in a solution of PUA PI at a ratio of 9 1 v v were dropped into the mold and cured for 30 s using a 365 nm hand held UV lamp. The key shaped mold was filled with polystyrene MW 280 000 granules and heated at 260 C. for 90 min. The silicone mold was cooled to room temperature and the cast object was taken off the mold. Luminescence images were then taken using customized portable decoder under excitation from a 1 W 980 nm NIR laser.

In applications where it is important that the microparticles cannot be seen under ordinary illumination with visible light the polymer material for the microparticle may be selected to match the refractive index of the material to which the microparticle will be attached. For surface labeling applications the polymer material of the microparticle may be selected to match the refractive index of a coating material used to attach the microparticles to the underlying object. For labeling within the body of an object the polymer material of the microparticle may be selected to match a refractive index of the body of the object.

As illustrated by the images of microparticles can be used for labeling the surface and or the bulk of various types of objects. The microparticles are unobtrusive or covert under normal illumination but clearly visible under NIR illumination. Notably decoding is not limited to microscope based instrumentation. illustrates a image acquisition for a portable decoder that employs a portable apparatus consisting of a mobile phone camera fitted with an objective. Specifically a portable microscope decoder was assembled using the following components a mobile phone with a build in camera a DIN Objective to 10 Eyepiece Tube Assembly a 20 Objective long working distance LWD Magnification 20 Numerical aperture 0.30 and a mobile phone adapter to a microscope eyepiece. includes images of microparticles used for labeling a pharmaceutical blister pack currency a credit card 3D ceramic objects art work and a high temperature cast polystyrene key.

Specifically images of particles with 6 stripes were taken via a CCD decoder and loaded into image processing and analysis software e.g. MATLAB by Mathworks of Natick Mass. . Particle boundaries were defined using a grayscale intensity based edge detection algorithm. Boundary pixel x and y values were averaged to determine the particle centroid. Boundary pixels with minimum and maximum x and y values four points total were noted and distances between adjacent points used to determine the particle end point or the pixel located on the 2nd shortest edge of the particle boundary and its longitudinal axis. The end pixel and centroid pixel were then used to determine both the code orientation and a director for the particle s longitudinal axis. The centroid of each striped region of the particle was determined by segmenting the particle into six regions the number of stripes were presumed known a priori along its longitudinal director. In other embodiments k means image segmentation algorithms may be employed to define regions of the particle based on color without a priori knowledge of the number of particle stripes. RGB values were measured by averaging pixels within each of the six striped regions of particles under test were compared against training RGB values and standard deviations as determined from a particle training set. If an average set of RGB values fell within 3.5 standard deviations of a training RGB value the values were determined to match. In this way analog RGB sequences were translated into digital sequences of spectral signatures.

To test the identification multiple microparticles were generated with a true code and some with a different false code as shown in . An automated decoding system employing the process described above with respect to correctly distinguished the true code microparticles that matched a provided authentic code from the false code microparticles that did not match the provided authentic code using luminescence images. In the identified false code images are indicated with a box around the image.

Further details regarding an exemplary system of particle synthesis are provided below. schematically depicts a flow lithography and decoding system for particle synthesis that includes a flow lithography microscope setup a decoding microscope setup and a spectrometer setup. is an image flow lithography and decoding system for particle synthesis. The flow lithography microscope setup includes a UV LED light source a 10 objective Edmund optics a CMOS camera a dichroic cage cube a dichroic mirror cage cube mounted turning prism mirrors an XYZ sample stage a mask holder 1 lens tubes an XY translator a high precision zoom housing for 1 optics a 30 mm cage posts an LED and valve control relay which were controlled with instrument control hardware and software a camera adapter and a CCD camera. The decoding microscope setup included a 1 W 980 nm laser a 950 nm cut on filter a collimator a CCD camera adapter and a CCD camera. The spectrometer setup included a spectrometer a laser translation stage an X Y translating lens mount NIR achromatic doublet pairs a collimator a 950 nm cut on filter a 30 mm cage and posts.

The versatile high performance stop flow lithography SFL systems and techniques described herein are a high throughput process for synthesizing particles. In a semicontinuous process multiple coflowing laminar streams each containing a single optically active UCN moiety or probe molecule are convected into a microchannel e.g. formed from poly dimethylsiloxane PDMS or a non swelling thiolene based resin for use with organic solvents stopped and photopolymerized in place via mask patterned ultraviolet light 365 nm to form barcoded particles at a rate of 18 000 particles hr which are then displaced when flow resumes. This 10particles hr synthesis rate is by no means limiting hydrodynamic flow focusing has been used to increase the synthesis rate for similar particles to over 10particles hr. The synthesis platform may also be constructed using commercial off the shelf parts and free standing optics. Parallelization in an industrial setting with no further optimization could readily increase the facility scale synthesis throughput by orders of magnitude to meet industrial demand.

In describing exemplary embodiments specific terminology is used for the sake of clarity. For purposes of description each specific term is intended to at least include all technical and functional equivalents that operate in a similar manner to accomplish a similar purpose. Additionally in some instances where a particular exemplary embodiment includes a plurality of system elements device components or method steps those elements components or steps may be replaced with a single element component or step. Likewise a single element component or step may be replaced with a plurality of elements components or steps that serve the same purpose. Moreover while exemplary embodiments have been shown and described with references to particular embodiments thereof those of ordinary skill in the art will understand that various substitutions and alterations in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention. Further still other aspects functions and advantages are also within the scope of the invention. Exemplary flowcharts are provided herein for illustrative purposes and are non limiting examples of methods. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that exemplary methods may include more or fewer steps than those illustrated in the exemplary flowcharts and that the steps in the exemplary flowcharts may be performed in a different order than the order shown in the illustrative flowcharts.

