---

title: Opportunistic media patching for a communication session
abstract: A user equipment (UE) selectively attempts recovery of lost media for a real-time communication session. In an embodiment, the UE detects presence of a lost media packet from another UE participating in the real-time communication session that did not successfully arrive at the UE. The UE evaluates a set of recovery criteria associated with the lost media packet to attempt to dynamically select at least one external source from a plurality of external sources from which the lost media packet can potentially be recovered at different predicted reliabilities and/or response times for attempting recovery of the lost media packet based on the set of recovery criteria. The UE attempts to recover the lost media packet from the selected at least one external source based on the evaluation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09603039&OS=09603039&RS=09603039
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09603039
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140331
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 807 955 entitled OPPORTUNISTIC MEDIA PATCHING FOR A COMMUNICATION SESSION filed Apr. 3 2013 by the same inventors as the subject application assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and third generation 3G and fourth generation 4G high speed data Internet capable wireless services. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

More recently Long Term Evolution LTE has been developed as a wireless communications protocol for wireless communication of high speed data for mobile phones and other data terminals. LTE is based on GSM and includes contributions from various GSM related protocols such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA .

In any of the aforementioned communication protocols user equipments UEs can engage in communication sessions with other UEs whereby media e.g. audio media video media etc. is exchanged and played in real time . In real time communication sessions the value of media drops precipitously as time e.g. mere seconds of tenths of a second goes by. For example audio data e.g. one or more audio frames contained in an audio packet received during a phone call typically need to be played relatively soon e.g. 100 200 ms after receipt by a target UE or else the audio data will not have relevance to the phone call. Also if the audio packet is lost during the phone call it can take a relatively long time e.g. several seconds to re obtain the lost audio packet e.g. from the speaker or a server that archives audio packets for the phone call . To mitigate packet loss during real time communication sessions mechanisms such as forward error correction FER or interleaving are used. However in the event that media packets such as the audio packet in the preceding example are lost during a real time communication session the target UE typically allows the real time communication session to continue without attempting to recover media that was contained in the lost media packets due to the expectation that this media will not be relevant upon its eventual arrival if recovery were attempted.

A user equipment UE selectively attempts recovery of lost media for a real time communication session. In an embodiment the UE detects presence of a lost media packet from another UE participating in the real time communication session that did not successfully arrive at the UE. The UE evaluates a set of recovery criteria associated with the lost media packet to attempt to dynamically select at least one external source from a plurality of external sources from which the lost media packet can potentially be recovered at different predicted reliabilities and or response times for attempting recovery of the lost media packet based on the set of recovery criteria. The UE attempts to recover the lost media packet from the selected at least one external source based on the evaluation.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. CDMA EVDO eHRPD GSM EDGE W CDMA LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE or UE over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to an application server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The application server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the application server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the application server via the core network and or the Internet .

Examples of protocol specific implementations for the RAN and the core network are provided below with respect to to help explain the wireless communications system in more detail. In particular the components of the RAN and the core network corresponds to components associated with supporting packet switched PS communications whereby legacy circuit switched CS components may also be present in these networks but any legacy CS specific components are not shown explicitly in .

In the core network includes the above noted SGSN B and potentially a number of other SGSNs as well and a GGSN B. Generally GPRS is a protocol used in GSM for routing IP packets. The GPRS core network e.g. the GGSN B and one or more SGSNs B is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G access networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network i.e. the core network that provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. UEs of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the Internet as if from one location at the GGSN B. This is achieved by transferring the respective UE s data from the UE s current SGSN B to the GGSN B which is handling the respective UE s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN B acts as an interface between a GPRS backbone network not shown and the Internet . The GGSN B extracts packet data with associated a packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from GPRS packets coming from the SGSN B and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN connected UE to the SGSN B which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of a target UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN B stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and its associated profile in a location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN B is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for a connected UE. The GGSN B also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN B is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN B includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN B stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN B for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs B are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN B ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN B iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN B via a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP protocol. RANAP operates over a Iu interface Iu ps with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN B communicates with the GGSN B via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN B and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs not shown and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . In the embodiment of the Gn between the SGSN B and the GGSN B carries both the GTP C and the GTP U. While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN B is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

In the core network includes a plurality of Mobility Management Entities MMEs D and D a Home Subscriber Server HSS D a Serving Gateway S GW D a Packet Data Network Gateway P GW D and a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF D. Network interfaces between these components the RAN and the Internet are illustrated in and are defined in Table 1 below as follows 

A high level description of the components shown in the RAN and core network of will now be described. However these components are each well known in the art from various 3GPP TS standards and the description contained herein is not intended to be an exhaustive description of all functionalities performed by these components.

Referring to the MMEs D and D are configured to manage the control plane signaling for the EPS bearers. MME functions include Non Access Stratum NAS signaling NAS signaling security Mobility management for inter and intra technology handovers P GW and S GW selection and MME selection for handovers with MME change.

Referring to the S GW D is the gateway that terminates the interface toward the RAN . For each UE associated with the core network for an EPS based system at a given point of time there is a single S GW. The functions of the S GW D for both the GTP based and the Proxy Mobile IPv6 PMIP based S5 S8 include Mobility anchor point Packet routing and forwarding and setting the DiffSery Code Point DSCP based on a QoS Class Identifier QCI of the associated EPS bearer.

Referring to the P GW D is the gateway that terminates the SGi interface toward the Packet Data Network PDN e.g. the Internet . If a UE is accessing multiple PDNs there may be more than one P GW for that UE however a mix of S5 S8 connectivity and Gn Gp connectivity is not typically supported for that UE simultaneously. P GW functions include for both the GTP based S5 S8 Packet filtering by deep packet inspection UE IP address allocation setting the DSCP based on the QCI of the associated EPS bearer accounting for inter operator charging uplink UL and downlink DL bearer binding as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203 UL bearer binding verification as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to both GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN UTRAN only UEs and E UTRAN capable UEs using any of E UTRAN GERAN or UTRAN. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to E UTRAN capable UEs using E UTRAN only over the S5 S8 interface.

Referring to the PCRF D is the policy and charging control element of the EPS based core network . In a non roaming scenario there is a single PCRF in the HPLMN associated with a UE s Internet Protocol Connectivity Access Network IP CAN session. The PCRF terminates the Rx interface and the Gx interface. In a roaming scenario with local breakout of traffic there may be two PCRFs associated with a UE s IP CAN session A Home PCRF H PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a HPLMN and a Visited PCRF V PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a visited VPLMN. PCRF is described in more detail in 3GPP TS 23.203 and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. In the application server e.g. which can be referred to as the AF in 3GPP terminology is shown as connected to the core network via the Internet or alternatively to the PCRF D directly via an Rx interface. Generally the application server or AF is an element offering applications that use IP bearer resources with the core network e.g. UMTS PS domain GPRS domain resources LTE PS data services . One example of an application function is the Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF of the IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Core Network sub system. The AF uses the Rx reference point to provide session information to the PCRF D. Any other application server offering IP data services over cellular network can also be connected to the PCRF D via the Rx reference point.

In the eHRPD RAN includes a plurality of base transceiver stations BTSs E E and E which are connected to an enhanced BSC eBSC and enhanced PCF ePCF E. The eBSC ePCF E can connect to one of the MMEs D or D within the EPS core network A over an S101 interface and to an HRPD serving gateway HSGW E over A10 and or A11 interfaces for interfacing with other entities in the EPS core network A e.g. the S GW D over an S103 interface the P GW D over an S2a interface the PCRF D over a Gxa interface a 3GPP AAA server not shown explicitly in over an STa interface etc. . The HSGW E is defined in 3GPP2 to provide the interworking between HRPD networks and EPS LTE networks. As will be appreciated the eHRPD RAN and the HSGW E are configured with interface functionality to EPC LTE networks that is not available in legacy HRPD networks.

Turning back to the eHRPD RAN in addition to interfacing with the EPS LTE network A the eHRPD RAN can also interface with legacy HRPD networks such as HRPD network B. As will be appreciated the HRPD network B is an example implementation of a legacy HRPD network such as the EV DO network from . For example the eBSC ePCF E can interface with an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server E via an A12 interface or to a PDSN FA E via an A10 or A11 interface. The PDSN FA E in turn connects to HA A through which the Internet can be accessed. In certain interfaces e.g. A13 A16 H1 H2 etc. are not described explicitly but are shown for completeness and would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art familiar with HRPD or eHRPD.

Referring to it will be appreciated that LTE core networks e.g. FIG. D and HRPD core networks that interface with eHRPD RANs and HSGWs e.g. can support network initiated Quality of Service QoS e.g. by the P GW GGSN SGSN etc. in certain cases.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B one of BSs A through A one of Node Bs B through B one of eNodeBs D through D etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. PDSN SGSN GGSN S GW P GW MME HSS PCRF the application etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an embodiment that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

The various embodiments may be implemented on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as server illustrated in . In an example the server may correspond to one example configuration of the application server described above. In the server includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers or to the Internet. In context with it will be appreciated that the server of illustrates one example implementation of the communication device whereby the logic configured to transmit and or receive information corresponds to the network access ports used by the server to communicate with the network the logic configured to process information corresponds to the processor and the logic configuration to store information corresponds to any combination of the volatile memory the disk drive and or the disc drive . The optional logic configured to present information and the optional logic configured to receive local user input are not shown explicitly in and may or may not be included therein. Thus helps to demonstrate that the communication device may be implemented as a server in addition to a UE implementation as in A or B as in .

In any of the aforementioned communication protocols e.g. EV DO W CDMA LTE eHRPD etc. user equipments UEs can engage in communication sessions with other UEs whereby media e.g. audio media video media etc. is exchanged and played in real time . In real time communication sessions the value of media drops precipitously as time e.g. mere seconds of tenths of a second goes by. For example audio data e.g. one or more audio frames contained in an audio packet received during a phone call typically need to be played relatively soon e.g. 100 200 ms after receipt by a target UE or else the audio data will not have relevance to the phone call. Also if the audio packet is lost during the phone call it can take a relatively long time e.g. several seconds to re obtain the lost audio packet e.g. from the speaker or a server that archives audio packets for the phone call . To mitigate packet loss during real time communication sessions mechanisms such as forward error correction FER or interleaving are used. However in the event that media packets such as the audio packet in the preceding example are lost during a real time communication session the target UE typically allows the real time communication session to continue without attempting to recover media that was contained in the lost media packets due to the expectation that this media will not be relevant upon its eventual arrival if recovery were attempted.

Referring to during the real time communication session UE captures media . The media capture that occurs at can correspond to an audio recording device e.g. a microphone capturing audio data such as speech of an operator of UE and or to a video recording device e.g. a camera capturing video data of an environment of UE . UE buffers the captured media within a set of media packets . For convenience of explanation assume that the captured media is buffered within media packets 1 . . . 8. In assume that UE successfully transmits media packets 1 . . . 6 and 8 to the application server but UE does not successfully transmit media packet 7 to the application server . For example the transmission failure of can be caused by physical later interference between UE and its serving RAN a backhaul loss between UE s serving RAN and the application server and so on. After attempting to transmit media packets 1 . . . 8 at and UE clears its buffer and does not retain media packets 1 . . . 8 . In even though media packet 7 was not transmitted successfully at UE does not attempt to re transmit media packet 7. For example unlike transmission control protocol TCP data transfers RTP over UDP sessions generally do not require data transmission when failure or packet loss is detected due to the time sensitive nature of each RTP packet.

Referring to assume that the application server successfully transmits media packets 1 2 3 5 6 and 8 to UE but that the application server is unable to successfully transmit media packet 4 . For example the transmission failure of can be caused by physical later interference between UE and its serving RAN a backhaul loss between UE s serving RAN and the application server and so on. Also as will be recognized from media packet 7 is not transmitted at or because media packet 7 never arrived at the application server .

UE receives and buffers media packets 1 2 3 5 6 and 8 . UE also recognizes that media packets 4 and 7 were lost at some point during transfer but UE does not attempt to recover lost media packets 4 and 7 because UE assumes that these packets will be obsolete upon arrival if recovery were attempted. Again this assumption is built into the operation of the real time communication session in . UE plays the media frames contained within media packets 1 2 3 5 6 and 8 i.e. the media packets that were actually received by UE and media packets 4 and 7 i.e. the media packets that did not successfully arrive at UE are not played.

While relates to the scenario where no re transmission of lost media packets is attempted at all for a real time communication session there are conventional protocols such as the radio link protocol RLP that permit media packet retransmission for real time communication sessions. In RLP sessions when a target UE misses a media packet the target UE immediately requests its serving RAN to re transmit the missed or lost media packet. However if the target UE s serving RAN does not have access to the lost media packet e.g. such as media packet 7 from the lost media packet cannot be re transmitted. Also it is possible that even if the target UE s serving RAN has access to the lost media packet e.g. such as media packet 4 the re transmission of the lost media packet may simply occur too late to be played during the RLP session. For these reasons embodiments of the invention are directed to selectively recovering lost media packets during a real time communication session based on a set of recovery criteria.

Referring to assume that the UE is engaged in a real time communication session with one or more other UEs . The real time communication session can correspond to a half duplex or full duplex communication session. The real time communication session can also correspond to either a 1 1 or direct communication session where the session is between the UE and one other UE or a group communication session between the UE and two or more other UEs.

During the real time communication session the UE detects that a media packet is lost . The lost media packet can occur due to an error during transfer from the one or more other UEs to the application server e.g. a poor physical layer connection to a serving RAN or backhaul connection or an error during transfer from the application server to the UE itself e.g. a poor physical layer connection to a serving RAN or backhaul connection .

In response to the detection of the lost media packet at the UE evaluates a set of recovery criteria in order to determine whether to attempt to recover the lost media packet . While not shown explicitly in it is possible that there are no available external sources for the lost media packet e.g. none of the entities that accessed the lost media packet are expected to have a buffered version of the lost media packet etc. in which case the determination of would automatically determine not to attempt recovery for the lost media packet irrespective of the set of recovery criteria. Unlike where no media packet recovery is attempted for lost media packets at all and the alternative RLC session scenario where media packet recovery is always attempted from the serving RAN the evaluation of permits the decision of whether to attempt lost media packet recovery to occur in a selective manner. In an example the set of recovery criteria can include but is not limited to i a playback urgency of the lost media packet ii a reliability of each of a set of external sources from which the lost media packet can potentially be recovered iii an expected response time each of the set of external sources and or iv a priority of the lost media packet e.g. which can be based upon a priority of the UE from which the lost media packet originated . As used herein an external source corresponds to any entity that is potentially capable of providing the lost media packet external to the UE itself. As an example a server to which the UE is connected is an example of an external source but the UE s local cache memory is not an external source because the local cache memory is part of the UE itself.

Based on the evaluation from the UE determines whether to attempt recovery for the lost media packet . If the UE determines not to attempt recovery for the lost media packet at the process returns to and the lost media packet is not recovered or played by the UE during the real time communication session. Otherwise if the UE determines to attempt recovery for the lost media packet at the UE identifies at least one external source from the plurality of external sources for attempting recovery of the lost media packet based on the set of recovery criteria . As will be appreciated from the examples provided below the identification of the at least one external source for attempting recovery is a dynamic selection based on real time considerations and is not a static selection where the UE simply asks a default external source to provide any missed packets.

Table 2 below shows an example of how the set of recovery criteria can be used to perform the determination of and or the identification of .

Referring to Example 1 from Table 2 above assume that the UE performing the process of corresponds to UE that the originating UE of the lost media packet is UE and that the real time communication session is a group session that also includes UEs and . Further assume that the urgency of the lost media packet is high e.g. the UE is actively engaged in the session and will need to play the lost media packet soon . Because UE is the originating source of the lost media packet and is assumed to be buffering its transmitted media packets the reliability that UE will be capable of providing the lost media packet is high but UE has a slow response time because UE is accessed via the application server . The application server may also be buffering the media for the session but has an intermediate reliability because media packets can be lost between UE and the application server . The application server thereby has both and an intermediate reliability and an intermediate response time. In Example 1 from Table 2 assume that UE has a fast connection to UE e.g. UEs and are connected via LTE Direct UEs and are connected via the same WLAN AP or Bluetooth connection and can exchange data directly without involving the application server etc. . Thus UE has a low reliability but a fast response time. However assume that UE has a slow connection to UE e.g. UEs and are remove from each other or they can only be connected via the application server such that UE has a low reliability and a low response time. In Example 1 from Table 2 the priority of the lost media packet is assumed to be default. Under these assumptions for Example 1 from Table 2 the UE i.e. UE determines to attempt recovery for the lost media packet at because there is at least one available external source that is expected to be capable of providing the lost media packet in time to satisfy its high urgency and the UE identifies UE as the external source from which to recover the lost media packet because the other available external sources are expected to be too slow at .

Referring to Example 2 from Table 2 above assume that the UE performing the process of corresponds to UE that the originating UE of the lost media packet is UE and that the real time communication session is a 1 1 or direct session. Further assume that the urgency of the lost media packet is high. In Example 2 from Table 2 similar to Example 1 the UE has a high reliability and a slow response time while the application server has an intermediate reliability and an intermediate response time. In Example 2 from Table 2 the priority of the lost media packet is assumed to be default. Under these assumptions for Example 2 from Table 2 the UE i.e. UE determines not to attempt recovery for the lost media packet at because there are no available external sources expected to be capable of providing the lost media packet in time to satisfy its high urgency.

Referring to Example 3 from Table 2 above assume that the UE performing the process of corresponds to UE that the originating UE of the lost media packet is UE and that the real time communication session is a group session that also includes UE . Further assume that the urgency of the lost media packet is low e.g. an operator of UE has temporarily paused the real time communication session by answering another call etc. . In Example 3 from Table 2 similar to Example 1 the UE has a high reliability and a slow response time the application server has an intermediate reliability and an intermediate response time and UE has a low reliability and a fast response time e.g. under the assumption that UEs and have access to a fast back channel connection such as LTE Direct WLAN or Bluetooth . In Example 3 from Table 2 the priority of the lost media packet is assumed to be default. Under these assumptions for Example 3 from Table 2 the UE i.e. UE determines to attempt recovery for the lost media packet at because there is at least one available external source that is expected to be capable of providing the lost media packet in time to satisfy its high urgency and the UE identifies UE as the external source from which to recover the lost media packet despite UE s low response time because UE has the highest reliability and the lost media packet is not particularly urgent.

Referring to Example 4 from Table 2 above assume that the UE performing the process of corresponds to UE that the originating UE of the lost media packet is UE and that the real time communication session is a group session that also includes UE . Further assume that the urgency of the lost media packet is low e.g. an operator of UE has temporarily paused the real time communication session by answering another call etc. . In Example 4 from Table 2 similar to Example 3 the UE has a high reliability and a slow response time the application server has an intermediate reliability and an intermediate response time and UE has a low reliability and a fast response time e.g. under the assumption that UEs and have access to a fast back channel connection such as LTE Direct WLAN or Bluetooth . In Example 4 from Table 2 the priority of the lost media packet is assumed to be low. Under these assumptions for Example 4 from Table 2 the UE i.e. UE determines not to attempt recovery for the lost media packet at due to the low priority of the lost media packet. Thus even though the lost media packet could probably be recovered from any of the available external sources the low priority of the lost media packet is sufficient in this case to conserve battery resources on UE and or system resources by refraining from a lost packet recovery attempt.

Referring to Example 5 from Table 2 above assume that the UE performing the process of corresponds to UE that the originating UE of the lost media packet is UE and that the real time communication session is a group session that also includes UE . Further assume that the urgency of the lost media packet is intermediate e.g. an operator of UE has temporarily paused the real time communication session but is expected to return to the real time communication session relatively soon . In Example 5 from Table 2 similar to Example 4 the UE has a high reliability and a slow response time the application server has an intermediate reliability and an intermediate response time and UE has a low reliability and a fast response time e.g. under the assumption that UEs and have access to a fast back channel connection such as LTE Direct WLAN or Bluetooth . In Example 5 from Table 2 the priority of the lost media packet is assumed to be high. Under these assumptions for Example 5 from Table 2 the UE i.e. UE determines to attempt recovery for the lost media packet at because there is at least one available external source that is expected to be capable of providing the lost media packet in time to satisfy its high urgency and the UE identifies both the application server and UE as external sources from which to recover the lost media packet at . In this case the high priority of the lost media packet is sufficient to prompt UE to attempt lost packet recovery from multiple available external sources that are expected to be capable of providing the lost media packet in time.

Returning to after identifying i.e. dynamically selecting the at least one external source from the set of external sources for attempting recovery of the lost media packet based on the set of recovery criteria at the UE requests the lost media packet from the at least one identified external source . If the requested copy i.e. the replacement copy for the lost media packet is received within an expiration deadline for playing the media frames from the lost media packet the media frames from the requested copy are buffered and then played as if the lost media packet had not been lost in the first place . On the other hand if the requested copy arrives too late or does not arrive at all the real time communication sessions simply skips over the media frames for the lost media packet at .

While not illustrated explicitly in the process of can repeat for multiple lost media packets during the real time communication session. Each time the process of is executed the set of recovery criteria is re evaluated at for each particular lost media packet. As will be appreciated different external source s can be dynamically selected for recovery of the lost media packets at based on these evaluations. Thus the originating source or UE from which a first lost media packet may be selected for recovery of the first lost media packet whereas the application server may be selected for recovery of a second lost media packet whereas a local UE may be selected for recovery of a third lost media packet and so on.

Referring to during the real time communication session UE captures media . The media capture that occurs at can correspond to an audio recording device e.g. a microphone capturing audio data such as speech of an operator of UE and or to a video recording device e.g. a camera capturing video data of an environment of UE . UE buffers the captured media within a set of media packets . For convenience of explanation assume that the captured media is buffered within media packets 1 . . . 8. In assume that UE successfully transmits media packets 1 . . . 6 and 8 to the application server but UE does not successfully transmit media packet 7 to the application server . For example the transmission failure of can be caused by physical later interference between UE and its serving RAN a backhaul loss between UE s serving RAN and the application server and so on. After attempting to transmit media packets 1 . . . 8 at and instead of clearing the buffer from as in of UE maintains media packets 1 . . . 8 in its buffer for at least a threshold period of time . In particular media packets 1 . . . 8 can be maintained in UE s buffer for an extended period of time e.g. 10 seconds 15 seconds etc. in order to accommodate requests for any lost media packets from any target UE s participating in the real time communication session.

Referring to assume that the application server receives and buffers media packets 1 . . . 6 and 8 from UE and that the application server successfully transmits media packets 1 2 3 5 6 and 8 to UE and UE for a group session scenario but that the application server is unable to successfully transmit media packet 4 to UE . For example the transmission failure of can be caused by physical layer interference between UE and or UE and their respective serving RANs a backhaul loss between the serving RANs of UEs and and the application server and so on. Also as will be recognized from media packet 7 is not buffered at or transmitted at or because media packet 7 never arrived at the application server . At instead of clearing the buffer from the application server maintains media packets 1 . . . 6 and 8 in its buffer for at least a threshold period of time. In particular media packets 1 . . . 6 and 8 can be maintained in the application server s buffer for an extended period of time e.g. 10 seconds 15 seconds etc. in order to accommodate requests for any lost media packets from any target UE s participating in the real time communication session.

UE receives and buffers media packets 1 2 3 5 6 and 8 . For a group session scenario UE optionally receives and buffers media packets 1 . . . 6 and 8 because the packet transmission failure for media packet 4 at is assumed not to have affected UE for the group session scenario. UE also recognizes that media packets 4 and 7 were lost at some point during transfer . Instead of simply ignoring lost media packets 4 and 7 as in conventional or automatically requesting the lost media packets 4 and 7 from the serving RAN as in the conventional RLC session scenario UE evaluates the set of recovery criteria to determine whether and or where to attempt recover for lost media packets 4 and or 7 as in of . Below a number of example continuations of are described with respect to that show alternative use cases based on the results of the evaluation from .

After identifying or dynamically selecting UE and UE at A as the external sources from which to attempt recovery for lost media packets 4 and 7 respectively UE transmits a request to UE for lost media packet 4 A and UE also transmits a request to UE for lost media packet 7 via the application server A. In an example the transmission of A can occur through a back channel e.g. LTE Direct WLAN or WiFi Bluetooth etc. separate from a channel supported by UE s serving RAN for the real time communication session while the transmission of A occurs via UE s serving RAN. In response to the request for lost media packet 4 UE provides a copy of media packet 4 at A and UE adds the replacement copy of media packet 4 into its buffer A. In UE is capable of providing media packet 4 because packet 4 was buffered by UE at and did not suffer the same transmission failure as UE . In response to the request for lost media packet 7 UE retrieves media packet 7 from its buffer e.g. based on the buffering from of and re transmits a copy of media packet 7 at A to the application server which re transmits media packet 7 to UE A after which UE adds the replacement copy of media packet 7 into its buffer A. At A UE plays the media frames contained in each of media packets 1 . . . 8 because UE has at this point buffered each of media packets 1 . . . 8 while UE plays the media frames contained in media packets 1 . . . 6 and 8 but not media packet 7 because UE did not recover media packet 7 A. Of course in another embodiment UE can also execute the process of whereby UE could independently have recovered media packet 7 either from UE or some other external source.

After identifying or dynamically selecting UE at A as the external source from which to attempt recovery for lost media packet 7 UE transmits a request to UE for lost media packet 7 A. In an example the transmission of A can occur through a back channel e.g. LTE Direct WLAN or WiFi Bluetooth etc. separate from a channel supported by UE s serving RAN for the real time communication session. In response to the request for lost media packet 7 UE cannot provide a copy of media packet 7 because UE also did not receive media packet 7 A. Thereby UE is unable to recover lost media packet 7 from UE . However because the connection between UEs and is relatively fast UE may recognize UE s inability to provide UE with the copy of media packet 7 with sufficient time to attempt recovery of lost media packet 7 from some other external source or sources . Accordingly similar to of UE reevaluates the set of recovery criteria to determine whether and or where to re attempt recovery for lost media packet 7 A. As will be appreciated UE is specifically excluded from consideration as a potential source for recovery because UE knows at A that UE does not have a copy of media packet 7. Based on the evaluation from A UE determines whether to re attempt recovery for lost media packet 7 from a different external source or sources A. If UE determines to re attempt recovery for lost media packet 7 from a different external source or sources at A the process advances to where these source s are identified similar to A but with different external source identification s . On the other hand if UE determines not to re attempt recovery for lost media packet 7 e.g. too much time has elapsed and none of the remaining available external sources if any are expected to be able to provide the copy of lost media packet 7 quickly enough at this point UE plays the media frames contained in each of media packets 1 . . . 3 5 6 and 8 A because UE has at this point buffered each of media packets 1 . . . 3 5 6 and 8 but not media packets 4 or 7 and UE also plays the media frames contained in media packets 1 . . . 6 and 8 but not media packet 7 A.

After identifying or dynamically selecting the application server as the external source from which to attempt recovery for lost media packet 4 and UE as the external source from which to attempt recovery for lost media packet 7 at B UE transmits a request to the application server for lost media packet 4 B and the UE transmits a request to UE via the application server for lost media packet 7 B. In response to the request for lost media packet 4 the application server re transmits a copy of media packet 4 based on its buffering from B and UE adds the re transmitted copy of packet 4 to the buffer B. In response to the request for lost media packet 7 UE transmits a copy of media packet 7 to the application server based on its buffering from B the application server in turn transmits the copy of media packet 7 to UE B and UE adds the transmitted copy of media packet 7 to the buffer B. Thereby UE is able to recover both lost media packets 4 and 7 and at B UE plays the media frames contained in each of media packets 1 . . . 8 because UE has at this point buffered each of media packets 1 . . . 8.

After identifying or dynamically selecting both the application server and UE at C as the external sources from which to attempt recovery for lost media packet 4 UE transmits a request to UE for lost media packet 4 C and a request to the application server for lost media packet 4 C. In an example the transmission of C can occur through a back channel e.g. LTE Direct WLAN or WiFi Bluetooth etc. separate from a channel supported by UE s serving RAN for the real time communication session. Also after identifying UE at C as the external source from which to attempt recovery for lost media packet 7 UE transmits a request to UE for lost media packet 7 via the application server C.

In response to the request for lost media packet 4 from C UE provides a copy of media packet 4 based on the buffering from C and UE receives and buffers the copy of media packet 4 C. In response to the request for lost media packet 4 from C the application server also provides a copy of media packet 4 based on the buffering from C. In this case UE has already buffered media packet 4 at this point because UE has a lower response time than the application server so the transmission of C is ignored not buffered by UE . As will be appreciated in scenarios where UE did not have the requested media packet buffered the transmission of the media packet copy from the more reliable application server would be used instead of ignored as in C. In response to the request for lost media packet 7 from C UE transmits a copy of media packet 7 based on the buffering from C the application server transmits the copy of media packet 7 to UE C and UE receives and buffers the copy of media packet 7 C. Thereby UE is able to recover lost media packets 4 and 7 and at C UE plays the media frames contained in each of media packets 1 . . . 8 because UE has at this point buffered each of media packets 1 . . . 8 and UE plays the media frames contained in media packets 1 . . . 6 and 8 but not media packet 7 C.

Accordingly at D UE determines to attempt recovery for lost media packets 4 and 7 from UE based on the evaluation from of . For example UE s decisions at D can be based on the urgency for media packets 4 and 7 being low and UE having the highest reliability among the available external sources for these media packets e.g. similar to Example 3 from Table 2 .

After identifying or dynamically selecting the UE as the external source from which to attempt recovery for lost media packets 4 and 7 at D UE transmits a request to UE via the application server for lost media packets 4 and 7 D. In response to the request for lost media packets 4 and 7 UE transmits a copy of media packets 4 and 7 to the application server based on its buffering from D the application server in turn transmits the copy of media packets 4 and 7 to UE D and UE adds the transmitted copies of media packets 4 and 7 to the buffer D. Thereby UE is able to recover both lost media packets 4 and 7 and at D UE un pauses the session and plays the media frames contained in each of media packets 1 . . . 8 because UE has at this point buffered each of media packets 1 . . . 8.

While the above described embodiments of the invention have been described with respect to packet loss detection and lost packet recovery it will be appreciated that other embodiments of the invention can be directed to frame loss detection and frame loss recovery. For example an RTP packet can include multiple media frames and it is possible that some of these frames are received correctly while others are not. In this case the useable frames can be buffered while the logic described above with respect to can be executed to determine whether to attempt recovery for any lost frames. Generally the same logic described above for packets can be carried over to frames as would be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

