---

title: Lightweight camshaft and method for producing the same
abstract: The present disclosure relates to a lightweight camshaft and method for producing the same. The method includes the steps of slidably arranging a plurality of support elements onto a support tube, winding the support tube and support elements with at least one fiber layer, impregnating the at least one fiber layer with a matrix material so as to form a fiber composite, curing the fiber composite, and slidably arranging each of a plurality of functional elements, including at least a plurality of cam elements, onto a corresponding support element, such that the support elements are fixedly seated at least partially inside a passage defined through the functional elements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09574651&OS=09574651&RS=09574651
owner: THYSSENKRUPP PRESTA TECCENTER AG
number: 09574651
owner_city: Eschen
owner_country: LI
publication_date: 20141028
---
Existing solutions for lightweight camshafts have been attempted or contemplated in the past. German patent no. DE 102 60 115 B4 discloses a camshaft and method for producing the same in which a tubular main body is produced from a carbon fiber composite material into which tubular main body a plurality of metal sleeves for receiving cam elements are introduced. During the production of the main body a corresponding number of metal sleeves are positioned at predefined points along the main body and laminated into the carbon fiber composite material.

In this manner a lightweight camshaft may be produced which lightweight camshaft comprises a tubular main body made from a carbon fiber composite material metal sleeves connected to the main body and cams seated on the metal sleeves. The metal sleeves are laminated into the carbon fiber composite material of the main body and serve a retaining function. The disadvantage of the camshaft and method disclosed in the German patent no. DE10260115 B4 is that the operational transmission forces between the metal sleeves that receive the cam elements and the carbon fiber composite material of the tubular main body can be high. High forces at the connection between the metal sleeves and the composite fiber material which forces can often push the limits of the joint strength result in the connection not having permanent strength which strength is dependent in particular on the mechanical and thermal loading of the camshaft. The metal sleeves have a central passage through which the inner part of the main body extends the main body not forming a sufficient bedding module depending on the use conditions of the camshaft in order to produce a permanently loadable seat for the metal sleeves if the loading of the camshaft exceeds defined values.

A further disadvantage of the camshaft as disclosed in DE10260115 B4 is the fact that the main body is formed by a complicated winding process that requires the metal sleeves to be positioned onto the main body by way of a complicated method in order to subsequently continue and complete the winding process. The accuracy with which the metal sleeves have to be positioned on the main body during the winding process has to be very high since the position of the metal sleeves defines the later position of the cams.

It is an object of the present disclosure to develop a method for producing a camshaft of lightweight design which method can be carried out simply and makes it possible to produce a camshaft which can be subjected to high mechanical and thermal loadings.

In one aspect of the present disclosure a method of manufacturing a lightweight camshaft includes providing a support tube coupling a plurality of support elements to the support tube winding the support tube and support elements with at least one fiber layer introducing a matrix material into the fiber layer so as to form a fiber composite curing of the fiber composite and placing functional elements including at least a plurality of cam elements on the support elements such that the support elements are seated in a passage through the functional elements and receive the functional elements in a retaining manner. In such an embodiment the fiber composite comprises at least one fiber strand.

An embodiment of a method of manufacturing a lightweight camshaft according to the present disclosure comprises at least the following providing a support tube coupling a plurality of support elements to the support tube winding the support tube and support elements with at least one fiber layer introducing a matrix material into the fiber layer so as to form a fiber composite curing of the fiber composite and placing functional elements including at least a plurality of cam elements on the support elements such that the support elements are seated in a passage through the functional elements and receive the functional elements in a retaining manner. In such an embodiment the fiber composite comprises at least one fiber strand.

Such a proposed method for producing a lightweight camshaft achieves the advantage that the winding of the support tube and support elements with the at least one fiber layer can be carried out independently from the step of providing the support tube. The support elements can be fixedly fastened on the support tube in a positionally accurate and mechanically loadable manner. A fiber composite can be formed by way of the subsequent introduction of a matrix material into the fiber layer. Subsequent curing of the fiber composite results in high strength support elements disposed on the support tube. Thereafter functional elements which may comprise cam elements can be placed onto the support elements. The functional elements include a plurality of central passages defined there through such that the functional elements are configured to be placed onto the support elements through the passages of the functional elements and retained on the support elements. The curing of the fiber composite can be brought about by way of hardening the fiber composite material including for example by hardening at an elevated temperature.

In an alternate embodiment of the method spacer sleeves can be coupled onto the support tube and disposed between the support elements. In one embodiment a support element and a spacer sleeve can alternatingly be slidably disposed onto the support tube with the spacer sleeves ensuring the geometrically necessary spacing of the support elements on the support tube along a direction of a longitudinal axis of the support tube. In an alternate embodiment each of the support elements may be a single piece that incorporates one or more spacer sleeves therein with the result that the spacer sleeves can be dispensed with as individual components.

If spacer sleeves and support elements are alternatingly slid onto or coupled to the support tube the winding of the support tube with the at least one fiber layer can also incorporate the support elements within or beneath the windings. If spacer sleeves are used they can likewise be incorporated within or beneath the fiber windings. In one exemplary embodiment the winding of the support tube can take place in such a way that the fiber layers are laid completely on the support elements and or on the spacer sleeves. In such an embodiment the support elements and optionally the spacer sleeves have the fiber layers wound thereon but the fiber layer is not actually applied onto the outer surface of the support tube itself. Thereafter a matrix material such as an epoxy resin is applied to the fiber layers and cured. The curing of the fiber layer with the introduced matrix material produces a fiber composite that allows the support elements and optional spacer sleeves disposed on the support tube to become a rigid and mechanically loadable structure.

The support tube may be a tubular body made from a fiber composite material. In one embodiment the support tube may be made from a carbon fiber composite material but such embodiment should not be read to limit the scope of the shape or composition of the support tube. The tubular body may be provided in already completely cured form in order to have the necessary strength which is required for the construction of a camshaft. During the application of the matrix material into the fiber layer which in one embodiment occurs after the positioning of one or more of the support elements and spacer sleeves onto the support tube the matrix material may also be applied to portions of the support tube. Such application on the support tube may be done for example to close any remaining gaps and or cavities.

In one embodiment the method of arranging of functional elements on the support elements can further comprise one or more of the following additional steps. Prior to coupling the functional elements to the support tube having a plurality of support elements disposed thereon the functional elements are slidingly aligned with a longitudinal axis of the support tube and oriented to a first rotational angular position with respect to the support elements disposed on the support tube. In the first rotational angular position the functional elements have sufficient clearance to pass over the support elements on the support tube. While oriented at the first rotational angular position about the longitudinal axis each functional element is slidably placed onto or disposed on the support tube in the longitudinal direction and moved to a location along the support tube adjacent but not on its assigned support element. In most cases this requires the functional elements to pass over one or more support elements to be positioned adjacent its assigned support element on the support tube. While disposed adjacent their respective assigned support elements the functional elements are rotated about the longitudinal axis so as to be oriented at a second rotational angular position with respect to the support elements on the support tube. Each functional element is then pushed forced onto its respective support element which forms the final seating position for each functional element.

In some embodiments the functional elements may be positively locked onto to the support elements while in other embodiments the functional elements are seated on the support elements in a non locking manner. As discussed above when the functional elements are oriented at the first rotational angular position relative to the support elements by way of an angular rotation of the functional elements about the longitudinal axis the functional elements can be guided over the support elements on the support tube without any contact or friction forces occurring between the functional elements and the support elements. Accordingly there are no frictional forces interference fits or contact between the components that needs to be overcome to move a functional element over and past a support element to position it adjacent to its assigned support element prior to seating the functional element on its assigned support element. The functional elements can be guided on the camshaft one after another according to their sequence over the support tube and the affixed support elements by the functional elements being oriented in the first angular position relative to the support elements which therefore makes it possible to guide the functional elements over the support elements substantially without contact.

The support elements can have fiber grooves defined on an outer circumferential face thereof and configured to permit the fibers of the fiber layer to be laid in the fiber grooves. The fibers of the fiber layer can be deposited with a fiber profile over the support elements and seated within the fiber grooves. In one embodiment the fibers of the fiber layer will also be applied over the spacer sleeves at an angle for example at an angle of from about 40 to about 50 or about 45 with respect to the longitudinal axis. If fiber grooves are made in the outer circumferential face of the support elements the fibers of the fiber layer do not protrude beyond the outer circumferential face of the support elements with the result that the fiber layer does not impede the positioning of the functional elements onto the support elements a discussed above. In particular the functional elements can be guided over the support elements in the corresponding first angular position without the disruption of the mounting movement of the functional elements over the support elements occurring as a result of the fibers of the fiber layer.

In one embodiment the support elements can further comprise retaining grooves defined in an outer circumferential face of the support elements. At the same time the functional elements can further comprise a plurality of retaining springs or retaining protrusions disposed in the central passages of the functional elements which retaining springs are complementary to the retaining grooves defined in the outer face of the support elements. In such embodiment when the functional elements are oriented in the second rotational angular position relative to the support elements and the functional elements are forced pushed onto the support elements in the longitudinal axial direction the retaining springs on the functional elements can be forced pushed into the retaining grooves of the support elements such as for example by the application of a clamping force between the functional elements and the support elements in the direction of the longitudinal axis. In such embodiment with the functional elements in the second rotational angular position the retaining grooves are aligned with the retaining springs so as to permit the functional elements to be forced pushed onto the support elements in a retaining manner. The functional elements are rotated from the first to the second angular position just before the desired final seating or mounting position is reached along the length of the support tube that is to say just prior to reaching the appropriate assigned support element onto which that particular functional element is to finally be mounted.

The clamping retaining force imparted between the support elements and the functional elements can be produced for example by virtue of the fact that one or more of the retaining springs and the retaining grooves have a ramp shaped lead in extending in the axial direction which ramp assists with the movement of the functional element onto the support element when the functional element is press fit onto the support element. When the functional elements are forced pushed onto the support elements with the application of an axial compression force between the two components the ramp shaped lead in permits the retaining springs to slide into the retaining grooves where the retaining springs and the retaining grooves impart a compressive radial force on each other as by a typical press fit thereby fixedly retaining the functional element on the support element. Here the force required to push the functional element onto the support element can be applied by means of a corresponding tool for example cam mounting tongs only between the support element and the functional element. This prevents the relatively high force required to press fit the functional element onto the support element from being introduced by the support element into the fiber composite or into the support tube.

The introduction of the matrix material into the at least one fiber layer can be performed in a mold and may optionally be accomplished by use of a resin transfer molding method.

The functional elements can form cam elements which are present multiple times on the support tube in order to form the lightweight camshaft. Furthermore in alternate embodiments the functional elements can also comprise for example a flange or bearing rings and the flange can be placed onto an associated support element in particular at an end of the support tube and the bearing ring or the bearing rings can be pushed onto the support tube between the support elements or the spacer sleeves.

When the individual elements have been pushed onto the support tube and the fiber composite body has been cured a lightweight camshaft is produced which can be subjected to final machining by way of a machining method for example by way of grinding. By way of a final grinding a dimensional accuracy of the camshaft can be achieved which is no longer influenced by the position of the support elements on the support tube and by the fiber composite. Furthermore undesirable geometric displacements and shifts can be caused during the production process for example by way of the introduction of the matrix material and or by way of the curing of the fiber composite which displacements and shifts can be ground out of the final camshaft by way of a final grinding of the cam elements or other functional elements.

Furthermore the present disclosure is directed to a camshaft of lightweight design which has been produced by way of a method for producing a camshaft as disclosed above. Additional features and associated advantages disclosed in conjunction with a method as disclosed herein are likewise to be taken into consideration for a camshaft produced by a method as disclosed herein.

The support elements the functional elements in particular the cam elements and the bearing rings can advantageously be configured as sintered parts. The spacer sleeves can preferably be configured from plastic in particular from carbon fiber composite material.

Referring now to shown therein is a support tube which extends along its longitudinal axis . shows by way of example an isometric view of the support tube produced from a fiber composite material for example from a carbon fiber composite material.

Finally shows a stage of the production method in which support elements have alternatingly been pushed with spacer sleeves onto the support tube over the entire length of the support tube . In such embodiment the spacer sleeves ensure the required axial position of the support elements along the support tube in the direction of the longitudinal axis .

The support elements and the spacer sleeves can have central through passages which are dimensioned relative to the external diameter of the support tube such that each of the support elements and the spacer sleeves can be seated on the support tube substantially without play there between.

As a result of the fiber composite the support elements are seated fixedly on the support tube and form a composite with one another which leads to stiffening of the support tube with the fiber composite . By way of this stiffened arrangement of the support tube with the support elements the spacer sleeves and the fiber composite a minimum weight receiving body for receiving a plurality of functional elements is produced in order to form the camshaft according to .

Each of the functional elements are pushed onto respectively associated support elements which are embedded in the fiber composite . The support tube extends along the longitudinal axis through the fiber composite with the surrounding support elements and spacer sleeves not shown .

In an embodiment of the present disclosure a fiber layer is wound over the support elements and the spacer sleeves with the fibers of the fiber layer running through the fiber grooves defined between the molded projections of the support elements . In this way the fibers of the fiber layer can run on the outer circumferential face of the spacer sleeves and on the outer circumferential face of the sleeve shaped main bodies of the support elements without the fibers of the fiber layer having to overcome jumps in diameter. Here the fiber layer comprises at least one fiber strand which is wound onto the elements over the support tube so as to run through the fiber grooves of the support elements by means of a corresponding winding apparatus. In one embodiment the fiber strand can therefore be formed from one dimensional individual fibers which are thereafter impregnated with a matrix material.

When however the cam element is situated adjacent to and in front of in an axial direction a support element onto which it is to be finally seated the cam element can be rotated about the longitudinal axis to a second angular position as shown in . In this second angular position the retaining grooves of the support element are aligned with in terms of their rotational position the retaining springs in the through passage of the cam element . If the cam element is pressed forced in an axial direction onto the support element while in the second angular position the retaining springs are forced into the retaining grooves resulting in a compressive press fit clamping force applied there between which serves to retain the cam element on the support element . The magnitude of the pressing force required to push the cam element onto the support element with the engagement of the retaining springs into the retaining grooves can be so great that the clamping action which is produced also withstands the operating forces of the camshaft .

The mounting techniques disclosed herein namely the utilization of different angular positions to guide the cam element over support elements which are positioned in front of it and to push the cam element onto the associated support element can also be used with alternate types of functional elements in the context of the present disclosure. In particular the flange or the bearing rings can also be applied to the respectively associated support elements in the manner disclosed herein.

The present disclosure is not restricted to a preferred exemplary embodiment specified in the preceding text. Rather a number of alternate embodiments are conceivable which use the solution disclosed even in the case of embodiments of fundamentally different type. All the features and or advantages which are apparent from the claims the description or the drawings including structural details or spatial arrangements can be advantageous to the invention either alone or in a very wide variety of combinations.

