---

title: Method and system for using persistent identifiers in passive optical networking
abstract: A method of configuring an optical network terminal (ONT) at a computer terminal is described. The method may include reading in an instruction including a persistent identifier and an ONT command, identifying the ONT within a database using the persistent identifier, packaging an optical communication command to be sent through an optical line terminal (OLT) using the ONT identified by the persistent identifier through the database, and sending the optical communication command to the ONT through the OLT. The instruction may be operable to configure the ONT. Identifying the ONT may include referencing the persistent identifier against a table including standard transient ONT identifiers stored within the database. The OLT may be optically coupled to the ONT using a passive optical networking.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503193&OS=09503193&RS=09503193
owner: 
number: 09503193
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141116
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 905 467 filed Nov. 18 2013.

This invention is related to optical networking and in particular a management system for passive optical networking.

Passive optical networking is well known in the art to provide telecom services such as video voice and data. However the use and requirements of telecom providers are very different than those of the enterprise. While telecom providers must are closed networks with very specialized and highly trained network engineers enterprise users may run the gamut from knowledgeable to novices.

The object of the invention is to provide an improved management layer for an enterprise network. In particular the following system will provide a management layer that will empower a client to manage deployed devices in a simple to use manner.

In one aspect the invention may reside in a system for implementing a persistent identifier for an optical network terminal ONT . The system may include an optical line terminal OLT operable to register with the ONT one or more processors in communication with the OLT and a database coupled to the one or more processors. In operation the OLT sends a registration event to the processor once the ONT is registered with the OLT wherein the persistent identifier is used by a user to identify the ONT without referencing any information particular to the ONT or the OLT.

In another aspect the invention may reside in a method for assigning a persistent identifier to an optical network terminal ONT by a processor. The method may include connecting the ONT to a network line terminal OLT over a fibre optic connection registering the ONT with the OLT and sending a registration event from the OLT to the processor. Processing the registration event at the processor may include creating a table entry within a database linking the registration event to a persistent identifier inputted by a user upon initial registration of the ONT by the processor. It may also include linking the persistent identifier previously inputted by the user with the registration event of the ONT upon subsequent registrations of the ONT by the processor.

In another aspect the invention may reside in a method of configuring an optical network terminal ONT at a computer terminal. The method may include reading in an instruction including a user inputted persistent identifier and an ONT command identifying the ONT within a database using the persistent identifier wherein identifying the ONT includes referencing the persistent identifier against a table including standard ONT identifiers stored within the database packaging an optical communication command to be sent through an optical line terminal OLT using the ONT identified by the persistent identifier and sending the optical communication command to the ONT through the OLT which is optically coupled to the ONT. The instruction may be operable to configure the ONT.

In yet another aspect the invention may reside in a method of communicating with an optical line terminal OLT by a system. The method may include receiving a registration event from the OLT interpreting the registration event to determine if the ONT is already known to the system and updating the system to acknowledge the registration of the ONT if the ONT is recognized. The registration event may indicate the OLT has successfully registered an optical network terminal ONT with the OLT via an optical coupling. The method may also include configuring the ONT with information stored by the system and accepting a persistent identifier to abstract the ONT from the system for future configuration by a user if the ONT is recognized.

In yet a further aspect the invention may reside in a system for implementing a persistent identifier for an optical network terminal ONT . The system may include an optical line terminal OLT operable to register with the ONT one or more processors in communication with the OLT and a database coupled to the one or more processors. The OLT may send a registration event to the processor once the ONT is registered with the OLT and the persistent identifier may be used by a user to identify the ONT without referencing any information particular to the ONT or the OLT.

Various embodiments and aspects of the disclosure will be described with reference to details discussed below and the accompanying drawings will illustrate the various embodiments. The following description and drawings are illustrative of the disclosure and are not to be construed as limiting the disclosure. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to provide a concise discussion of embodiments of the present disclosure.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions which follow are presented in terms of algorithms which include operations on data stored within a computer memory. An algorithm is generally a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations typically require or involve physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like can refer to the action and processes of a data processing system or similar electronic device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the system s memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present disclosure can relate to an apparatus for performing one or more of the operations described herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a machine e.g. computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs erasable programmable ROMs EPROMs electrically erasable programmable ROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and each coupled to a bus.

A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a machine readable medium includes read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices etc.

At least certain embodiments of the present disclosure include one or application programming interfaces API or drivers in an environment with user interface software interacting with a software application. Various function calls or messages are transferred via the application programming interfaces between the user interface software and software applications. Transferring the function calls or messages may include issuing initiating invoking or receiving the function calls or messages. Example application programming interfaces transfer function calls to implement scrolling gesturing and animating operations for a device having a display region. An API may also implement functions having parameters variables or pointers. An API or driver may receive parameters as disclosed or other combinations of parameters. In addition to the APIs or drivers disclosed other APIs or drivers individually or in combination can perform similar functionality as the disclosed APIs or drivers.

The OLT may be connected to one or more processors illustrated as CPU and a database shown as DB . In some embodiments the CPU and DB may be integrated with the OLT .

The LAN may be connected to external networks such as the internet. In some embodiments a router firewall may be used.

The ONT is coupled with a peripheral device seen in as peripheral devices A E . Peripheral devices A E may include any number of types of devices for inclusion within LAN . For example a peripheral device may include a computer a printer a server and the like. In a preferred embodiment the peripheral device may be a camera such as a security camera connected in a LAN which is designed to provide security coverage of a building area and the like.

In some embodiments an Ethernet cable not shown of the peripheral device may be used to couple the peripheral device to the ONT over an Ethernet standard. For example if the peripheral device is network enabled the ONT may connect to the peripheral device through the peripheral device s network jack.

In other embodiments the ONT may be incorporated directly into the peripheral device . For example a network interface card not shown or proprietary connector and the like may be installed in the peripheral device for coupling the ONT to the peripheral device . For example a small form factor pluggable transceiver SFP may be used. In this manner the ONT may be installed directly in the peripheral device and may be operable to communicate with the peripheral device over a bus not shown or other communication channel as known in the art.

The OLT is in communication with the ONT using a passive optical networking PON standard. As known in the art a passive optical network PON is a point to multipoint network architecture which uses passive i.e. unpowered optical splitters to connect to peripheral devices over optical fiber. In this manner an OLT is operable to enable a single optical fiber to serve multiple peripheral devices . Typical PON implementations have between 16 128 peripheral devices . Architectures utilizing a PON reduce the amount of fiber and related infrastructure required to connect network in comparison to point to point architectures.

Any suitable version of a PON standard may be used. For example the PON standard may be the Gigabit Passive Optical Networks GPON standard developed by the International Telecommunication Union ITU or the Ethernet Passive Optical Networks EPON standard developed by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE . Other flavours of PON such as APON 10G PON 10G EPON SPON and the like may also be used.

Packets may be passed in the LAN amongst the peripheral devices . In this manner the OLT behaves as a layer 2 L2 switch i.e. data link layer in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI model while providing the benefits of an optical infrastructure including long reach smaller and lighter cables fewer cables and resistance to lightning and electrostatic discharge ESD .

In addition using an OLT with fiber optic transmission paths to implement the LAN is desirable in that optical fiber is expected to become cheaper than unshielded twisted pair UTP cabling as the cost of metals and other natural resources required by Ethernet cabling and the like increases.

As also shown in the LAN may include a powered patch panel or unpowered patch panel coupled to the passive optical splitter . The patch panels may be coupled between the passive optical splitter and one or more of the ONT . The patch panels are configured to allow a plurality of ONT to be plugged and unplugged into the LAN over a plurality of second fiber optic connections .

In a preferred embodiment the OLT ONTs may form a system for implementing a persistent identifier to allow a user to easily configure the ONTs . The DB and CPU may also be used. When the OLT sends a registration event to the processor once an ONT is registered with the OLT the persistent identifier inputted by a user may be mapped to the particular registered ONT e.g. when ONT A is registered a persistent identifier may be mapped to ONT A . In this manner the persistent identifier can be used by the system to identify the ONT ONT A without referencing any information particular to the ONT or the OLT . Typically a user would need to know the ONT identifier and OLT identifier if more than one OLT was used or the dynamically assigned LLID in order to properly identify the ONT that is being configured.

The persistent identifier may be mapped to the ONT . In this manner the user can use the persistent identifier e.g. OEC 5 or SW basement to identify the ONT e.g. with LLID 3 which is the 3ONT to be sequentially registered with the OLT . Using a persistent identifier the user does not need to keep a separate mapping on a spreadsheet or piece of paper of which ONT the user wishes to configure. Instead the persistent identifier can be used continuously by the network administrator without worrying that if the ONT is re registered it will change LLID or any other transient identifier .

In a preferred embodiment the persistent identifier may be mapped to a port on the ONT rather than the ONT itself. The description can then reference the particular device connected to the port e.g. CAM SW 2FL or AP Rotunda . In a preferred embodiment the persistent identifier is a user generated description. However this does not need to be the case. In some embodiments the persistent identifier is a numeral that is abstracted from the ONT identifier and the OLT identifier which may change upon power cycle and which is different than a MAC address. Using a persistent identifier allows a user to easily referent the ONT or port if the persistent identifier references a port so that the user can make changes to the system without having to search through dynamic tables or refer to a MAC address.

In operation according to another embodiment a method can be used to assign a persistent identifier to an optical network terminal ONT by a processor. First the ONT is connected to the OLT over a fibre optic connection . The ONT then registers with the OLT . This may be accomplished over a passive optical networking standard. For example the standard may be EPON or GPON.

When the ONT is registered with the OLT the OLT sends a registration event to the system e.g. the processor . Processing the registration event at the processor may include creating a table entry within database linking the registration event to a persistent identifier inputted by a user. Accordingly upon subsequent registrations of the ONT by the processor the processor is configured to link the persistent identifier with the registration event of the ONT . In this manner the persistent identifier inputted by the user can be used to identify the ONT .

In a preferred embodiment registering the ONT with the OLT includes obtaining a logical link identifier LLID for the ONT . The LLID may be indicative of a registration order of the ONT according to the associated passive optical networking standard used. This LLID may subsequently change if the ONT is power cycled. In such instances there is no guarantee that the subsequent registration of the ONT with the OLT would result in the same LLID. Accordingly the persistent identifier allows the user to reference the same identifier without forcing the user to research how to identify the ONT . This is also useful when the system is restarted and all ONTs must be re registered with the system.

The persistent identifier may be mapped to a unique identifier of the ONT . In this manner it may be used by the user or the system to determine if the ONT has been previously registered during the subsequent registrations. In some embodiments the unique identifier of the ONT is a MAC address.

The persistent identifier may be mapped to a specific Ethernet port on the ONT and does not need to be mapped to the ONT itself. In some embodiments a plurality of persistent identifiers may be used for a single ONT . Each port on the ONT may receive its own persistent identifier. Furthermore while the persistent identifiers may follow a pattern the persistent identifiers do not need to follow any sort of pattern. For example the persistent identifier may be a description of the ONT . Or the persistent identifier may be descriptions of the different ports on the ONT . Each of the plurality of persistent identifiers may be for a unique Ethernet port on the ONT .

In operation upon the initial registration of the ONT by the processor the database may be updated with configuration details of the ONT as identified by the persistent identifier. Subsequently the ONT may be automatically configured with the configuration details stored in the database particular to the ONT as identified by the persistent identifier. In this manner when an ONT first comes online it is cross referenced against a database and if it is in the database the ONT is configured with the configuration details stored in the database . In a preferred embodiment the configurations details may include model number port speed VLAN identifier priority and enabled status. It should be understood that other configuration details may be included as would be known to persons skilled in the art.

In another preferred embodiment the optical network terminal ONT may be configured at a computer terminal. The persistent identifier may be used. To start the instruction or command may be read in. The instruction may include the user inputted persistent identifier and an ONT command.

The ONT command may be used to configure the ONT . For example the ONT command may include setting a port to a particular VLAN enabling or disabling a port setting a priority or changing a bandwidth configuration on the ONT . It should be understood that other ONT commands are possible.

Once entered the system may use the persistent identifier to identify the ONT within the database . This may include referencing the persistent identifier against a table in the database . For example the system may use the reference to the persistent identifier against a table stored in the database .

A standard ONT identifier may be stored in the database . The standard ONT identifier may be determined by a passive optical networking standard. The table may include logical link identifiers LLIDs or MAC addresses for the different ONTs registered within the system. Accordingly while the user may only reference the persistent identifier the system is configured to use the persistent identifier to identify a particular ONT or port on the ONT rather than transient or standard identifiers.

In a particular embodiment the system may reference the persistent identifier against a table including standard ONT identifiers stored within the database. Once identified the system may be configured to package an optical communication command to be sent through the OLT to the ONT . Once the instructions are packaged the system may send the optical communication command to the ONT through the OLT which is optically coupled to the ONT .

The user inputted persistent identifier is a description of the ONT . This may allow a user to abstract away from the standard ONT identifier. Similarly the user inputted persistent identifier may be a description of a port on the ONT which also may be used to abstract away from the standard ONT identifier. In this manner a user would not need to know about the particular standard being used to connect the different ONTs . Instead user generated descriptions may be included in the system to provide a better user experience. In this manner the user would only need to remember the description and not any particular standard ONT identifier in order to reference a particular ONT or port on the ONT .

In yet another embodiment an OLT may be used to communicate with a system. This may include the system receiving a registration event from the OLT . The registration event may indicate the OLT has successfully registered the ONT with the OLT via an optical coupling. The system may interpret the registration event to determine if the ONT is already known to the system. If the ONT is recognized the system may be updated to acknowledge the registration of the ONT. Furthermore if the ONT is recognized the system may configure the ONT with information stored in the system. For example the system may store configuration details of the ONT which may be automatically loaded back in to the ONT when the ONT re registers with the OLT .

The system may be configured to accept a persistent identifier to abstract the ONT from the system for future configuration by a user. In this manner the user only needs to remember the persistent identifier instead of any identifier standard or transient particular to the ONT . This may make it easier for the user to configure the ONT .

In operation a preferred embodiment includes a method for configuring an ONT from or at a computer terminal not shown as depicted in . At BLOCK the method may include reading in an instruction including a persistent identifier and an ONT command. The instruction may be operable to configure the ONT . For example the instruction may be a command for setting a VLAN or enabling or disabling a port on the ONT .

At BLOCK the method may then include identifying the ONT within a database using the persistent identifier. Identifying the ONT may include referencing the persistent identifier against a table in the database. The table may include a list of standard transient ONT identifiers stored within the database. The persistent identifier may identify the standard transient ONT identifier for a particular ONT using the persistent identifier provided.

At BLOCK the method may include packaging an optical communication command to be sent through an optical line terminal OLT using the ONT identified by the persistent identifier through the database. For example the command may be part of a passive optical networking management protocol as is known in the art. The management protocol may be from for example the China Telecom CTC management protocol DOCSIS Provisioning of EPON DPoE Service Interoperability in Ethernet Passive Optical Networks SIEPON ONU Management and Control Interface OMCI and the like. The persistent identifier is used to identify or reference the information required by the management protocol.

Once properly packaged at BLOCK the optical communication command is sent to the ONT via the OLT . The optical communication command is sent over a fiber optic connection between the OLT and the ONT .

In another preferred embodiment a method for assigning a persistent identifier to an ONT by a processor is shown in . Referring to BLOCK the method may include connecting the ONT to an OLT over a fibre optic connection . Many ONTs may be connected to the same OLT be connected using passive optical networking via a splitter . Varied topologies of splitters and fiber optic connections may be used as would be understood by persons skilled in the art.

Next at BLOCK the ONT may register with the OLT using a passive optical networking standard. For example the PON standard may be EPON GPON XEPON and the like. The registration process may include for example creating a logical link identifier LLID for the ONT and setting up a service level agreement between the OLT and the ONT . Other registration events may include identifying timing and other dynamic bandwidth allocation DBA information.

As shown in BLOCK once registered the OLT sends a registration event to the processor . This may be in the form of an interrupt or other signal that identifies to the CPU that the OLT has registered an ONT .

When received by the processor at BLOCK the CPU may undertake a number of steps to set up and process the registration event. For example the first step may be to identify whether the ONT is being registered with the OLT for the first time. For example the processor may check the MAC Address or other identifier against a list of identifiers stored in the database to see if the ONT has previously registered with the ONT as shown in BLOCK . Upon initial registration of the ONT by the processor as shown in BLOCK a table entry may be created within the database linking the registration event to a persistent identifier.

The persistent identifier may be inputted by a user. Alternatively the persistent identifier may be automatically generated by the processor but follow a pattern easily remembered by users. In a preferred embodiment the persistent identifier is unique to the ONT but each ONT may have more than one persistent identifier and each persistent identifier may be used to reference the ONT or reference certain components of the ONT such as a specific port. The persistent identifier may also be changed by the user once entered into the database. For example if the persistent identifier is first allocated by the processor the user may be able to modify the persistent identifier to better suit the ONT . In a preferred embodiment the user may be able to create a new persistent identifier for the ONT .

Upon subsequent registrations of the ONT by the processor as shown in BLOCK the persistent identifier previously inputted by the user may be linked with the registration event of the ONT . At this stage the ONT may take on configurations that had been previously applied to the ONT upon its earlier registration. Configurations may include for example VLAN port enable disable speed and the like. This information may have been stored within the database .

Once registered as shown in BLOCK future optical commands may be sent to the ONT using the persistent identifier. In this manner the user does not need to remember difficult transient identifiers to send the commands. Instead the processor is operable to look up the information required to package and send the command to the ONT from information stored in the database when passed the persistent identifier. This is made possible by linking the required information to the persistent identifier which improves usability of the network management system.

In the foregoing specification the disclosure has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader scope of the disclosure as set forth in the following claims. The scope of the claims should not be limited by the preferred embodiments set forth in the examples but should be given the broadest interpretation consistent with the description as a whole. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

