---

title: Lightweight tool delivery system
abstract: A tool sled having a body with a concave top surface and a convex bottom surface is provided and includes a flat plate and a handle. The bottom surface is symmetric about a transverse axis and passes through the body in a direction perpendicular to a direction of movement of the sled. A flat plate in contact with the top surface along two contact lines runs across the concave surface where each contact line is parallel to the transverse axis. A handle attached to the body extends upwardly from the top surface and outwardly from the body along a longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of movement of the sled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09145159&OS=09145159&RS=09145159
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09145159
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140905
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

Sleds transport items across surfaces while being pushed or pulled by a human or a motorized vehicle. The sleds are configured to carry a variety of tools and to accommodate the surface over which the sleds traverse. Drag sleds are pushed and pulled over the ground over snow and ice or through water. The ground may be uneven and may include unanticipated obstacles such as ravines and rocks. In more urban environments these obstacles include curbs ramps and steps. Applications of sleds in tactical environments must also accommodate craters and debris.

A drag sled therefore should be able to accommodate unknown terrain and obstacles passing over or surmounting those obstacles. As the sled may need to be extradited from a position the sled should be shaped to overcome the obstacles in both a forward and reverse direction. The drag sled should stand up to use over harsh terrains and in tactical environments.

Exemplary embodiments of systems and methods in accordance with the present invention provide a lightweight tool delivery system. The tool delivery system includes a tool sled such as a drag sled in combinations with a propulsion device such as a tactical robot. The tool sled includes a body having a concave top surface and a convex bottom surface. The bottom surface is symmetric about a transverse axis passing through the body in a direction perpendicular to the direction of movement of the sled in either a forward for reverse direction. In an exemplary embodiment the bottom surface is also symmetric about a longitudinal axis of the sled that is parallel to the direction of movement of the sled. In an exemplary embodiment the tool sled body includes a leading edge a trailing edge opposite the leading edge and a pair of opposing side edges extending from the leading edge to the trailing edge.

The tool sled includes a flat plate that in contact with the top surface along two distinct contact lines running across the concave surface. Each contact line is parallel to the transverse axis. A rigid handle is attached to the body for example at the leading edge of the body and extends upwardly from the top surface and outwardly from the body along the longitudinal axis. Suitable materials for the body flat plate and handle include electrically conductive materials but are not limited to aluminum titanium tin steel metallic alloys and combinations thereof.

In an exemplary embodiment the tool sled body includes a plurality of distinct segments and a plurality of joints. Each joint is disposed between adjacent pairs of segments and extends parallel to the transverse axis. Therefore adjacent pairs of segments pivot with respect to each other about a given joint. Each joint can be configured as a scored line a gap between adjacent pairs of segments or a hinged connection containing for example at least one hinge.

In order to define and to maintain the desired concave top surface and convex bottom surface the tool sled includes at least one rigid curved stay attached to the body and extends along the body parallel to the longitudinal axis. The plurality of distinct segments pivot about the plurality of joints to conform to the curvature of the rigid curved stay. In an exemplary embodiment the rigid curved stay is attached to the concave top surface such that the curvature of the rigid curved stay defines the shape of the concave top surface and the convex bottom surface. In an exemplary embodiment the rigid curved stay is arranged as a pair of identical rigid curved stays. Each rigid curved stay runs along one of the opposing side edges of the tool sled body.

In an exemplary embodiment the tool sled body includes a pair of leading corners. Each leading corner defines a point of intersection of one of the opposing side edges and the leading edge of the body. The leading edge extends outward in the direction of travel of the sled from a leading corner line that connects the pair of leading corners and in an exemplary is parallel to the transverse axis. In another embodiment the body includes a pair of trailing corners. Each trailing corner defines a point of intersection of one of the opposing side edges and the trailing edge of the body. In an exemplary embodiment the leading corner line is parallel to a trailing corner line that connects the pair of trailing corners. The leading corner line and the trailing corner line are disposed in a common plane. In an exemplary embodiment the flat plate lies in a flat plate plane parallel to the common plane. The leading edge of the body extends upward out of this common plane a predefined distance. This predefined distance is generally sufficient to locate the rigid handle a distance of at least 6 inches above a support surface in contact with the convex bottom surface of the tool sled and over which the tool sled passes.

In an exemplary embodiment each rigid curved stay includes an upper edge disposed in the common plane and extends from the upper edge to the concave top surface along an entire length of one of the opposing side edges. In an exemplary embodiment the flat plate is disposed on the concave upper surface of the tool sled and includes two distinct contact lines a first contact line and a second contact line. The first contact line includes at least one hinge in contact with the flat plate and the concave top surface and is configured to facilitate movement of the flat plate from contact with the concave top surface along the second contact line. In an exemplary embodiment the first contact line includes two separate hinges spaced from each other along the first contact line and the flat plate has a notch disposed between the two separate hinges and extending into the flat plate from the first contact line. This notch allows access to a void disposed between the flat plate and the concave top surface.

In an exemplary embodiment the tool sled includes at least one sled runner attached to the convex bottom surface and extending across at least one of the plurality of distinct segments. In an exemplary the tool sled includes a plurality of sled runners. Each sled runner extends across a plurality of the distinct segments parallel to the longitudinal axis.

Exemplary embodiments in accordance with the present invention are also directed to a system for transporting tools that includes a tool sled in combination with the propulsion mechanism. The tool sled has a body with a concave top surface and a convex bottom surface. The bottom surface is symmetric about a transverse axis passing through the body in a direction perpendicular to a direction of movement of the sled. A flat plate is provided in contact with the top surface along two distinct contact lines running across the concave surface. Each contact line is parallel to the transverse axis. A rigid handle is attached to the body and extends upwardly from the top surface and outwardly from the body along a longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of movement of the sled. The propulsion mechanism is in contact with the handle.

Suitable propulsion mechanisms include but are not limited to an unmanned self propelled vehicle a motorized vehicle a manned vehicle a robot a robotic vehicle an automobile a motorcycle a bicycle and a tractor.

In the description which follows any reference to either direction or orientation is intended primarily and solely for purposes of illustration and is not intended in any way as a limitation on the scope of the present invention. Also the particular embodiments described herein although being exemplary are not to be considered as limiting of the present invention.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of a tool sled includes a body having a concave top surface and a convex bottom surface opposite the concave top surface. The concave top surface forms the interior of the sled in which tools or other items to be transported are held. The convex bottom surface faces and is at least partially in contact with the surface over which the tool sled passes. Suitable surface include but are not limited to the ground streets floors steps and sidewalks.

The shape of the convex bottom surface is selected based upon the surface over which the tool sled passes anticipated obstacles in the path of the tool sled and the direction of travel of the tool sled i.e. forward reverse or sideways. In an exemplary embodiment the curvature shape and symmetries of the concave top surface are identical to the convex bottom surface. Alternatively the curvature shape and symmetries of the concave top surface are different than the convex bottom surface. In an exemplary embodiment at least a portion of the body is symmetric about a transverse axis passing through the body perpendicular to a direction of forward movement of the sled as indicated by arrow A. This configuration provides an upwardly sloping front and rear of the sled that facilitates forward and backwards movement i.e. in the direction of arrow A and in a direction opposite of arrow A of the tool sled across a wide range of surfaces and obstacles. In an exemplary embodiment the tool sled is also symmetric about a longitudinal axis passing through the tool sled perpendicular to the transverse axis and parallel to the direction of movement of the tool sled.

As shown in the body includes a plurality of distinct segments joined by and meeting along a plurality of joints . Each joint is located between adjacent segments and extends parallel to the transverse axis . The joints allow adjacent pairs of segments to move with respect to each other about the given joint i.e. by rotating with respect to each other about the joints. Suitable arrangements for the joints include but are not limited to scored lines gaps between segments or one or more hinges. The number of segments varies as desired and the segments include a first or front leading segment and a last or back trailing segment . The body includes a leading edge which is part of the first segment a trailing edge opposite the leading edge which is part of the last segment and a pair of opposing side edges that extend from the leading edge to the trailing edge.

The body includes a pair of leading corners . Each leading corner defines a point of intersection of one of the opposing side edges and the leading edge . The leading edge extends outward in the direction of movement arrow A of the sled from a leading corner line connecting the pair of leading corners . The leading corner line passes through the first segment. The body also includes a pair of trailing corners . Each trailing corner defines a point of intersection of one of the opposing side edges and the trailing edge . The leading corner line connecting the two leading corners is parallel to a trailing corner line connecting the pair of trailing corners . The leading corner line and the trailing corner line are disposed in a common plane . The leading edge in addition to extending outward from the leading corner line extends upward out of the common plane by a predefined distance . This predefined distance is selected based on the terrain over which the sled passes and any anticipated obstacles.

The sled includes at least one rigid stay attached to the upper surface of the body of the tool sled body and running parallel to the longitudinal axis . In an exemplary embodiment the sled includes a pair or rigid stays one each extending along one of the opposing edges of the body. Each rigid curved stay includes an upper edge disposed in the common plane and extends from the upper edge to the concave top surface along an entire length of one of the opposing side edges. This configuration defines a curved lower edge of each rigid stay. The shape of the upper concave surface and the bottom convex surface of the tool sled body is determined by the curvature of the rigid curved stay and in particular the curved lower edge . The segments move with respect to each other about the joints and conform to the curvature of the rigid curved stay. Therefore the rigid stay defines and maintains the desired curvature of the body. By selecting the curvature of the curved stays the curvature of the sled body is defined. In addition multiple curved stays may be used having varying curvatures. The number of segments may also be changed i.e. increased to facilitate a more form fitting alignment between the stays and the body and to accommodate a desired type of curvature. Suitable materials for the flat plate tray are metallic materials such as aluminum titanium tin steel metallic alloys and combinations thereof in order to minimize electrical isolation of cargo from the ground. Accordingly the use of metallic materials that is metal helps to prevent the cargo from building up a static electricity charge and minimizes the triboelectric effects associated with many non conductive materials such as plastic.

The sled includes a flat plate in contact with the upper concave surface along two distinct contact lines on the upper concave surface. The two distinct contact lines include a first contact and a second contact line . In an exemplary embodiment the first and second contact lines are parallel to each other and parallel to the transverse axis . In an exemplary embodiment the first contact line includes at least one hinge in contact with the flat plate and the concave top surface. This hinge is configured to facilitate movement of the flat plate from contact with the concave top surface along the second contact line i.e. the flat plate pivots about the hinge to raise the flat plate up from contact with the upper concave surface along the second contact line . Suitable materials for the flat plate tray are metallic materials such as aluminum titanium tin steel metallic alloys and combinations thereof in order to minimize electrical isolation of cargo and prevent the cargo from building up a static electricity charge.

In an exemplary embodiment the first contact line includes two separate hinges spaced from each other along the first contact line . In this embodiment flat plate includes a notch disposed between the two separate hinges and extending into the flat plate from the first contact line . The notch defines a passage and allows access to a void disposed between the flat plate and the concave top surface. The void may enclose any number of items such as tools cargo people electronics artillery hardware and combinations thereof. The passage permits access by cords or ropes. Therefore the flat plate is an access hatch or moveable lid for the storage void.

In an exemplary embodiment the common plane is parallel to the support surface that is in contact with the convex bottom surface of the tool sled i.e. the surface over which the tool sled is passing and to the flat plate or a plane in which the flat plate is disposed. Thus the flat plate resides between the common plane and the support surface.

The sled includes at least one rigid handle . The handle is attached to the body and extends upwardly from the top surface and outwardly from the body along the longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of movement of the sled arrow A. The handle in an exemplary embodiment is attached to the first segment and extends from the center of leading edge . The handle is located a predefined distance above the common plane . This predefined distance is selected to be sufficient to locate the rigid handle a desired overall distance above a support surface that is in contact with the convex bottom surface of the tool sled . The predefined distance and overall distance are determined by a number of variables including and not limited to a specific clearance requirement for attachment to a propulsion mechanism or by the size of obstacles along the surface over which the tool sled is expected to encounter during transport. In an exemplary embodiment the predefined distance or the overall distance is about 6 inches.

The handle includes a gripping portion and an attachment or structural portion . The gripping portion is arranged for gripping by a user or for attachment to a propulsion mechanism used to propel or move the sled. In an exemplary embodiment the gripping portion is arranged as a cylindrical tube or handle extending parallel to the transverse axis. The attached portion is in contact with the gripping portion and the first segment of the body. The attachment portion includes the structural members gussets frame members and fasteners required for attachment of the handle to the body transfer of the pulling and pushing forces to the body of the sled and reinforcement of the first segment.

The sled includes at least one sled runner and in an exemplary embodiment a plurality of sled runners attached to the convex bottom surface and extending across at least one single segment or a plurality of distinct segments parallel to the longitudinal axis. When passing across multiple segments the sled runners span the joints between the segments. Therefore the runners may be segmented to correspond to the segments in the sled body. Suitable methods for attachment include but are not limited to fasteners and welds. The sled runners improve traction and facilitate movement of the sled over specific surfaces such as snow dirt and gravel.

Suitable materials for the body flat plate and handle include but are not limited to lightweight materials including but not limited to aluminum titanium tin steel metallic alloys and combinations thereof. Such lightweight materials reduce the force required to propel the tool sled across surfaces.

The present invention is also directed to a system for transporting tools that includes a tool sled as described herein in combination with a propulsion mechanism that transports the tool sled over a given support surface in either a forward arrow A or reverse direction. In an exemplary embodiment the propulsion mechanism is in contact with the handle . Suitable propulsion mechanisms include but are not limited to an unmanned self propelled vehicle a motorized vehicle a manned vehicle a robot a robotic vehicle an automobile a motorcycle a bicycle and a tractor. In an exemplary embodiment the propulsion mechanism is a tactical robot.

It will be understood that many additional changes in details materials steps and arrangements of parts which have been described herein and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

