---

title: Categorizing hash tags
abstract: A content item categorizer system retrieves content items from Internet sources. If a retrieved content item includes sufficient information for traditional categorization methods, then the system assigns one or more categories to the content item using such traditional methods. The system creates a metadata model, based on information about traditionally-categorized content items, that maps at least hashtags from the content items to one or more content categories. When the system retrieves a sparse-info item that does not include sufficient information for traditional categorization, the system applies the metadata model to categorize the content item using at least hashtags in the sparse-info item. The metadata model may also include information indicating mappings between categories and coincidence of hashtags and additional content item attributes. Also, the metadata model may provide information for categorizing sparse-info items based on multiple hashtags in the sparse-info item metadata.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09384259&OS=09384259&RS=09384259
owner: Yahoo!
number: 09384259
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140203
---
The present invention relates to categorizing content items and more specifically to categorizing a content item that is associated with particular hashtags based at least in part on categorizations of other content items with the same hashtags.

Internet content items such as news stories blog posts web pages journal articles images slideshows videos tweets etc. can be collected and published in many ways. For example personalized web portals generate personalized lists of Internet content items. A personalized web portal is a web portal that learns the preferences of each of its users and provides to each of its users content items that are likely to be of interest to the user based on what is known about the user s preferences. As a further example web portals can also provide lists of content items that pertain to particular topics.

Accurately categorizing Internet content items is key to creating personalized or topical lists of content items. Categorization of a content item involves assigning to the content item one or more content categories that relate to the information in the content item. Examples of content categories include sports news fashion religion politics weather etc.

The more textual information that is known about a content item the easier it is to determine the topic s to which the content item relates. However many Internet content items referred to herein as sparse info items are difficult to categorize because of the sparseness of the information given in connection with the content item. Examples of sparse info items include short sentences e.g. tweets comments status updates images and videos that have little or no accompanying text. Sparse info items frequently do not include the information that traditional categorization methods require for accurate categorization of the content items. A categorization method that is capable of better categorizing sparse info items would be beneficial in order to include sparse info items in applications that require categorized content items such as personalized or topical content item lists.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

A content item categorizer system retrieves content items from Internet content sources. If a retrieved content item includes sufficient information for traditional categorization methods then the system assigns one or more categories to the content item using such traditional methods.

Hashtag metadata referred to herein as hashtags consists of one or more words without delineating whitespace that are preceded by a hash symbol e.g. EndTheShutdown love Oscars etc. Many times an author includes one or more hashtags in a content item to identify one or more terms or phrases associated with the content item. For example a user publishes on a news feed an editorial article about a recent government shutdown that is associated with the hashtag EndTheShutdown. In some systems users may also add hashtags to content items created by others.

Content items that are assigned to categories using traditional categorization methods often have corresponding hashtags. For example an article about an upcoming Superbowl game which has been categorized using traditional categorization methods into the category football may have the hashtags Seahawks and Broncos.

Taking these hashtags and item to category assignments into account the system creates a metadata model that maps hashtags to one or more content categories. For example because the traditional categorization method determined that the article about the Superbowl falls into the category football and the article has the hashtags Seahawks and Broncos the system may map the hashtags Seahawks and Broncos to the category football .

When the system retrieves a sparse info item that 1 does not include sufficient information for traditional categorization but 2 has been tagged with previously encountered hashtags the system applies the metadata model to categorize the content item based at least in part on the hashtags of the sparse info item. For example in the present example an image that is associated with Seahawks may be categorized as falling into the football category because the metadata model maps Seahawks to the football category.

The metadata model may also include information indicating mappings between categories and coincidence of hashtags and additional content item attributes such as source of a content item author of a content item etc. Also the metadata model may provide information for categorizing sparse info items based on multiple hashtags in the sparse info item metadata.

Techniques are described hereafter for categorizing content items based at least in part on metadata including hashtags associated with the content items. A content item is a unit of digital information that includes one or more types of information such as text images videos slideshows interactive objects metadata etc. is a block diagram that depicts an example network arrangement for a content item categorizer system that a builds a machine learning data model that maps one or more types of metadata to content categories and b uses this data model to categorize content items.

Network arrangement includes a client device and server devices and all communicatively coupled via a network . Server device is also communicatively coupled to a content database and to a model database and server device is communicatively coupled to content database . Example network arrangement may include other devices including client devices server devices databases and display devices according to embodiments. For example one or more of the services attributed to either of server devices and herein may run on other server devices that are communicatively coupled to network including server devices depicted in and server devices that are not depicted in .

Client device may be implemented by any type of computing device that is communicatively connected to network . Example implementations of client device include without limitation workstations personal computers laptop computers personal digital assistants PDAs tablet computers cellular telephony devices such as smart phones and any other type of computing device.

In network arrangement client device is configured with a browser that displays a web page . Browser is configured to interpret and display web pages e.g. web page that are received over network including Hyper Text Markup Language HTML pages eXtensible Markup Language XML pages etc. Client device may be configured with other mechanisms processes and functionalities depending upon a particular implementation.

Further client device is communicatively coupled to a display device not shown in for displaying graphical user interfaces such as a graphical user interface of web page . Such a display device may be implemented by any type of device capable of displaying a graphical user interface. Example implementations of a display device include a monitor a screen a touch screen a projector a light display a display of a tablet computer a display of a telephony device a television etc.

Network may be implemented with any type of medium and or mechanism that facilitates the exchange of information between client device and server devices and . Furthermore network may facilitate use of any type of communications protocol and may be secured or unsecured depending upon the requirements of a particular embodiment.

Server devices and may be implemented by any type of computing device that is capable of communicating with other devices over network . In network arrangement server device is configured with a content item retrieval service a traditional categorizer service a model building service and a metadata categorizer service . In network arrangement server device is configured with a web portal service . Server devices and may be configured with other mechanisms processes and functionalities depending upon a particular implementation.

Server device is communicatively coupled to content database and to model database and server device is communicatively coupled to content database . Content database and or model database may reside in any type of storage including volatile and non volatile storage e.g. random access memory RAM one or more hard or floppy disks main memory etc. and may be implemented by one or more logical databases. The storage on which content database resides may be external or internal to server device or server device and the storage on which model database resides may be external or internal to server device . Furthermore while content database and model database are depicted as distinct the databases may reside on the same device and may be managed by the same database management system or multiple database management systems.

One or more of services and may be part of a cloud computing service. Functionality attributed to one or more of these services may be performed by other services or clients depicted in network arrangement according to embodiments. Services and may variously be implemented by one or more logical modules and are described in further detail below. Any of services and may receive and respond to Application Programming Interface API calls Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP messages requests via HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP or any other kind of communication e.g. from one of the other services. Further any of services and may send one or more of the following over network to one of the other services of the system information via HTTP HTTPS SMTP etc. XML data SOAP messages API calls and other communications according to embodiments.

In an embodiment each of the processes described in connection with one or more of services and are performed automatically and may be implemented using one or more computer programs other software elements and or digital logic in any of a general purpose computer or a special purpose computer while performing data retrieval transformation and storage operations that involve interacting with and transforming the physical state of memory of the computer.

The content item categorizer system of uses information from previously categorized content items to build a machine learning data model i.e. metadata model that maps one or more types of data for content items to content categories. As used herein a category may be a general topic such as U.S. government or politics or a may be a more specific topic or term such as Barack Obama or Guantanamo Bay .

Within embodiments previously categorized content items from which the categorizer system i.e. model building service builds metadata model have been categorized by any categorization method. For example previously categorized content items may have been categorized manually or by using a traditional automated technique or by using any other categorization technique now known or unknown. Information from any previously categorized content item that is associated with a hashtag may be used along with categories that have been assigned to the content item to build metadata model according to techniques described in further detail below. Herein an embodiment in which previously categorized content items are categorized based on traditional methods is described which is a non limiting example of how such previously categorized content items may be categorized.

According to embodiments content item retrieval service of server device retrieves content items for categorizing from one or more content item sources. Examples of content item sources include news feeds blogs social networking services web pages web portals information repositories etc. According to an embodiment content item retrieval service sends information for the retrieved content item to content item repository of content database for storage in the repository. According to another embodiment one of traditional categorizer service or metadata categorizer service sends information for a content item once the item has been categorized to content item repository for storage in the repository.

Content item retrieval service sends information for retrieved content items to traditional categorizer service . Traditional categorizer service determines whether the retrieved content item includes enough information for traditional categorization. Traditional categorizer service performs at least one traditional method of categorizing content items. Traditional categorization methods are methods of categorizing content items based on information in the content items which include but are not limited to Machine Learned Ranking MLR that applies a categorization system such as the Yahoo Categorization Taxonomy YCT Latent Dirichelt Allocation LDA a rule based system identification of information that explicitly assigns a content category to a content item etc. Embodiments include traditional categorizer service performing any kind of traditional classification that results in associating categories of content with content items.

As an example of traditional categorizer service determining whether a retrieved content item includes enough information for traditional categorization traditional categorizer service determines that a particular received content item includes sufficient information for traditional categorization when the content item includes metadata that explicitly indicates one or more content categories to be associated with the content item.

As a further example traditional categorizer service determines that a particular received content item includes sufficient information for traditional categorization when the content item includes sufficient text for traditional textual analysis e.g. via MLR . To illustrate traditional categorizer service receives information about a newspaper article that includes 30 paragraphs of newspaper style prose. Traditional categorizer service determines that the content item includes at least a threshold number of words in the text for the content item and as such includes sufficient information for traditional categorization.

In response to determining that a content item includes enough information for categorization traditional categorizer service performs traditional categorization analysis on the information in the content item and based on the result of the analysis associates the retrieved content item with one or more content categories. Specifically traditional categorizer service associates one or more categories with a content item based at least in part on information included in the content item other than hashtags which is described in further detail below. For example traditional categorizer service bases a traditional categorization on one or more of the following associated with the content item textual content of the item itself geographic information associated with the item e.g. GPS coordinates of where a photo was taken author or owner of the item the source from which the item was obtained a time or date associated with the item etc. There are merely examples of the virtually limitless types of information that may be available about an item.

In some cases the information associated with an item may explicitly assign the item to a category. For example metadata for a video may explicitly indicate that the video is of a Western which is a category to which videos may be assigned. In the case where traditional categorizer service identifies information that explicitly assigns one or more content categories to a particular content item e.g. in the content item metadata traditional categorizer service assigns one or more content categories to the particular content item based on the explicitly assigned one or more categories. Traditional categorizer service may also perform one or more other traditional methods of categorizing such a content item depending on the embodiment.

In some instances analysis of a content item includes textual analysis during which traditional categorizer service identifies terms in the text of a content item that correspond to one or more particular categories of content. According to an embodiment traditional categorizer service has access to lists of keywords compiled by a human that are associated with particular categories of content. According to an embodiment traditional categorizer service has access to a machine learned data model that identifies keywords associated with particular categories of content.

To illustrate textual analysis the retrieved newspaper article in the example above includes references to the terms shutdown government Barack Obama Congress and White House . These terms are included in one or more lists of keywords associated with the content categories U.S. government and politics . Thus traditional categorizer service associates the newspaper article with the categories U.S. government and politics .

According to embodiments traditional categorizer service makes the association between a content item and a content category with a calculated level of confidence LOC . A LOC assigned by traditional categorizer service indicates an estimated accuracy of the categorization association. In other words a LOC of a categorization association indicates how likely the content item is actually about the associated content category. A LOC may be calculated in any manner and may be represented by a percentage by a number with any precision by high medium low by true false or by any other means. For example if a content item is associated the category politics with a 90 level of confidence then traditional categorizer service has determined that there is a 90 chance that the content item is actually about the category politics .

The model building service builds metadata model based on information from content items that are classified using traditional classification methods. More specifically model building service develops metadata model that maps at least hashtags found in traditionally classified content items to content categories.

For example assume as mentioned above that a user publishes on a news feed an editorial article about a recent government shutdown that is associated with the hashtag EndTheShutdown. Assume further that another user publishes on a social media network a link to an image or the image itself of a child dressed as an animal sitting outside the closed gates of the zoo accompanied by EndTheShutdown. In this example the article may have sufficient information to be categorized by traditional classification methods while the image does not. In this case the image qualifies as a sparse info item that would be difficult to classify with an acceptable LOC e.g. of greater than 51 using traditional classification methods. However if one or more of the hashtags associated with a sparse info item is used in multiple traditionally categorized content items information about the traditionally categorized content items associated with the common hashtag can aid in classifying the sparse info item. Many sparse info items can be classified with an acceptable LOC based on hashtags associated therewith i.e. using metadata model which includes information about mappings between hashtags and content categories that are based on traditionally categorized data items.

To illustrate traditional categorizer service sends information for the newspaper article that is associated with the hashtag EndTheShutdown to model building service . Traditional categorizer service also sends information for a second content item a blog post that is associated with the hashtag EndTheShutdown to model building service .

At step based at least in part on how the plurality of categorized objects have been categorized one or more mappings are established between the particular hashtag and one or more categories. For example model building service includes information for received content items such as the newspaper article and blog post associated with EndTheShutdown in machine learned metadata model . For example model building service identifies one or more content categories with which traditional categorizer service associated a content items that is received at model building service . Model building service stores information in metadata model for one or more mappings between the one or more content categories identified for a content item and a hashtag associated with the content item.

To illustrate with the information about the newspaper article associated with the hashtag EndTheShutdown model building service also receives information about one or more categories with which traditional categorizer service associated the newspaper article and at what level of confidence. In this example traditional categorizer service associated the newspaper article with the content categories politics at 95 LOC and U.S. government at 75 LOC.

According to an embodiment model building service records in metadata model how many instances of content items out of a total number of recorded content items with a particular hashtag were associated with particular content categories with a LOC that is above a threshold level such as 50 . In the previous example both of the content categories are associated with the newspaper article with a LOC that is at least 50 . Thus in this embodiment to record information for the newspaper article associated with EndTheShutdown model building service increments by one the total number of content items with the hashtag EndTheShutdown the number of content items with that hashtag also associated with the category politics and the number of content items with that hashtag also associated with the category U.S. Government . Model building service would not record data for a content category associated with the newspaper article with a LOC less than the threshold level.

Thus in this embodiment metadata model includes mappings that show a number of content items out of all of the recorded content items with a particular hashtag that were associated with particular content categories. To illustrate metadata model includes information for the hashtag EndTheShutdown indicating that 100 000 content items with that hashtag were recorded and out of those content items 

According to an embodiment metadata model maintains for each recorded hashtag an ordered list of one or more categories that are mapped to the hashtag. The ordering of the list indicates relative levels of confidence among the respective mappings. For example categories in an ordered list for a particular hashtag are organized in descending order of magnitude of LOC for the respective mappings to the hashtag. As a further example based on the information for EndTheShutdown given above metadata model maintains an ordered list of categories mapped to EndTheShutdown in descending order of magnitude of LOC 1 politics 2 U.S. Government and 3 Barack Obama .

According to embodiments information in metadata model about content items that were published recently are more pertinent to the mapping of a particular hashtag to content categories than information about content items that were published less recently. Recency is important because the semantic meaning of particular hashtags may vary over time. In an embodiment the value of information for a particular content item decays incrementally or continuously over time. Such incremental or continuous decay may be implemented as e.g. linear decay exponential decay etc. In an embodiment model building service discards from metadata model information about a particular content item that was published more than a threshold amount of time ago without decaying the value of the information before discarding the information one time decay .

In an embodiment model building service determines the type of decay model i.e. one or more of incremental continuous linear exponential one time etc. to apply to information for a particular hashtag. Model building service bases such determination at least in part on one or more of a source of the information to which decay is to be applied analysis of how the value of a hashtag mapping decreases over time e.g. for a particular hashtag or for a particular source of the information etc. other information for a particular hashtag etc.

According to another embodiment model building service identifies a plurality of categorized objects that are associated with a particular hashtag within content item repository . Specifically traditional categorizer service categorizes content items and stores information for the content items including associated categories in content item repository . When at least a threshold number of traditionally categorized content items that are associated with a particular hashtag are stored in content item repository model building service establishes one or more mappings in metadata model between the particular hashtag and one or more categories based on the information for the traditionally categorized content items.

At step of flowchart a not yet categorized object associated with the particular hashtag is obtained. For example content item retrieval service retrieves a sparse info item such as a content item that consists of an image without text which is associated with the hashtag EndTheShutdown. Content item retrieval service sends information for the item to traditional categorizer service .

According to an embodiment traditional categorizer service performs traditional categorization on any data that is available in a content item and determines that the content item does not have sufficient data for traditional categorization in response to a finding no data to analyze or b the results of the analysis do not include a category with at least a threshold LOC. Traditional categorizer service sends information for content items that do not have sufficient data for traditional categorization and that are associated with one or more hashtags to metadata categorizer service . According to an embodiment traditional categorizer service also sends the results of any analysis performed on such a content item to metadata categorizer service to aid in identifying categories for the content item.

To further illustrate traditional categorizer service determines that a content item associated with a hashtag includes no information to analyze for traditional categorization and sends information for the content item to metadata categorizer service . As another example traditional categorizer service determines that a content item does have enough information for traditional categorization analysis and performs traditional categorization for the content item. However traditional categorizer service fails to associate the content item with any content category at a level of confidence above a particular confidence threshold such as 50 . In this example traditional categorizer service considers this content item to be not yet categorized and because the content item is also associated with a hashtag sends information for the content item to metadata categorizer service . According to a further embodiment traditional categorizer service forwards information for content items associated with a hashtag that have been traditionally categorized to metadata categorizer service for further categorization analysis.

At step the not yet categorized object is categorized based at least in part on the one or more mappings between the particular hashtag and the one or more categories. For example metadata categorizer service receives from traditional categorizer service information for a content item consisting of an image associated with EndTheShutdown. Metadata categorizer service categorizes the received content item using metadata model e.g. using MLR to identify one or more categories for the content item based on the hashtag associated with the item. Metadata categorizer service stores information for the content item including the one or more categories identified for the item in content item repository .

To illustrate metadata model indicates that the hashtag EndTheShutdown is mapped to the content category politics with a 99 LOC. As such metadata categorizer service associates with the received content item associated with EndTheShutdown the content category politics with a 99 LOC. As a further example metadata model indicates that the hashtag EndTheShutdown is mapped to the content category politics with a 50 level of confidence and the same hashtag is mapped to the content category sports with a 50 level of confidence. According to an embodiment metadata categorizer service assigns to the content item the content category politics with a 50 LOC and also the content category sports with a 50 LOC.

According to an embodiment metadata categorizer service does not associate a content item with a content category when the LOC for the association is less than a given LOC threshold. For example metadata model indicates that the hashtag EndTheShutdown is mapped to the content category politics with a 90 level of confidence and the same hashtag is mapped to the content category sports with a 40 level of confidence. Metadata categorizer service determines that the category politics is mapped to EndTheShutdown with an LOC greater than a threshold LOC such as 50 and in response associates the content item with the category politics with a 90 LOC. Metadata categorizer service determines that the category sports is mapped to EndTheShutdown with an LOC that is less than the threshold LOC and in response does not associate the content item with the category sports .

Categorization of content items is most useful when the LOC of a categorization is high e.g. over a certain percentage such as 75 or 90 . However mappings between categories and hashtags in metadata model are not always associated with a high LOC. For example a particular hashtag e.g. love is used in many different contexts which is reflected in the categories to which content items with the hashtag are traditionally categorized. Model building service analyzes the traditionally categorized content items associated with love and maps love within metadata model to 50 different content categories with no particular mapping having an LOC greater than 5 . Based on this metadata model metadata categorizer service associates a not yet categorized content item that is associated with love with the 50 categories having levels of confidence of less than 5 . Such categorization is not useful in many use cases.

In embodiments of the invention model building service analyzes information other than hashtags in traditionally categorized content items to identify information that may be used to create mappings in metadata model that have an acceptable LOC e.g. above a certain threshold . More specifically model building service performs correlation analysis to identify information indicating trends in traditional content item categorization for content items within a pool of content items in content item repository having a particular hashtag that also have another attribute value other than a hashtag in common. A content item having both a particular hashtag and a particular attribute value is referred to herein as coincidence of the particular hashtag and the particular attribute value. Examples of content item attributes other than a hashtag include source author timestamp range one or more particular keywords within the content items etc.

According to an embodiment model building service performs correlation analysis on content item information in content item repository to identify a particular value of a particular content item attribute other than a hashtag where

According to an embodiment model building service performs a correlation analysis for a pool of content items having a particular hashtag upon identifying satisfaction of one or more criteria examples of which include 

Furthermore model building service records in metadata model mappings between one or more categories and coincidence of a particular hashtag and the particular attribute value. Such mappings may have one or more categories in common with other mappings for the particular hashtag. According to an embodiment model building service records such mappings in response to determining that the mapping between one or more categories and coincidence of a particular hashtag and the particular attribute value has a higher LOC than a mapping between the one or more categories and the particular hashtag without coincidence of other attribute values. According to an embodiment model building service records such mappings in response to determining that the LOC for the mapping between one or more categories and coincidence of a particular hashtag and the particular attribute value is above a certain LOC threshold.

To illustrate model building service determines that within metadata model the hashtag love has no mapping to a category with more than a threshold LOC of 50 which satisfies criteria for performing a correlation analysis. In response to this determination model building service performs a correlation analysis of content items with the hashtag love stored in content item repository . As a result of the correlation analysis model building service determines that when content items are associated with love and are from a particular author fashionista123 the content item are be mapped to the content category fashion with a 95 LOC which is above the threshold LOC. As such model building service records in metadata model a mapping between the content category fashion and coincidence of the hashtag love and the author attribute value of fashionista123 with an LOC of 95 .

As a further illustration through the correlation analysis model building service also determines that content items with the hashtag love that were published after a certain timestamp are associated with the content category Love TV with an LOC of 85 . Because the LOC of the association between Love TV and the coincidence of love and a timestamp that indicates publication of the content item after a particular historical timestamp of is above the LOC threshold of 50 model building service records a mapping within metadata model between the category Love TV and coincidence of love and timestamps after the indicated historical timestamp with the LOC of 85 . Any kind of timeframe may be included in a mapping in metadata model .

Metadata categorizer service uses mappings between categories and the coincidence of hashtags and other content item information as described above to assign categories to not yet categorized content items. For example metadata categorizer service receives a not yet categorized content item that is associated with love. Metadata categorizer service determines that the author of the content item is not fashionista123 but that the content item was published after the historical timestamp indicated in the mapping between the category Love TV and coincidence of love and the historical timestamp. As such metadata categorizer service at least associates the content item with the category Love TV with the indicated LOC of 85 .

According to an embodiment metadata categorizer service applies the highest possible LOC to a categorization of a content item with a particular category. For example metadata model includes a mapping between love and Love TV with an LOC of 5 and also includes a mapping between the category Love TV and coincidence of love and timestamps after the indicated historical timestamp with the LOC of 85 . Metadata categorizer service receives a not yet categorized content item associated with love and published after the historical timestamp. Based on the mappings for which the content item is qualified metadata categorizer service associates the content item with the category Love TV with an LOC of 85 which is the highest LOC available for the association given the mappings in metadata model .

According to embodiments metadata categorizer service receives from traditional categorizer service information about results of a traditional categorization of a content item. If applicable metadata categorizer service uses this traditional analysis information to adjust the level of confidence of a content category identified by metadata categorizer service for the content item. For example metadata categorizer service determines that a content item is associated with the content category politics with a 70 LOC. Metadata categorizer service receives information from traditional categorizer service that the category politics was identified by traditional categorization methods for the content item with a 25 LOC.

Within embodiments metadata categorizer service may combine confidence levels from the various categorizers by any method. Specifically according to an embodiment metadata categorizer service increases the LOC for the category politics because the independent analysis by traditional categorizer service independently confirms at least in part the association of politics with the content item. According to an embodiment metadata categorizer service categorizes the subject content item with the highest LOC of the categorizations resulting from the various categorization methods. According to an embodiment metadata categorizer service trains an MLR given a set of outputs from various classifiers and a golden set until the MLR learns how the LOC should be determined for various combinations of input.

Model building service may also identify related categories in mappings for a particular hashtag stored at metadata model and create composite mappings that are of greater LOC than the mappings for the un combined related categories. For example the categories sports baseball and football are all related to the category sports . As another example the categories baseball Alex Rodriguez and Dodger Stadium are all related to the category baseball .

To identify related categories in mappings for a particular hashtag model building service identifies a subset of a pool of categorized objects in content item repository that are associated with a first category of a plurality of related categories. For example content item repository includes 100 000 content items associated with the hashtag winner. Model building service identifies a subset of 22 000 categorized objects within content item repository associated with the hashtag winner that are associated with the category baseball i.e. with an LOC of 22 . Further model building service identifies a second subset of a pool of categorized objects in content item repository that are associated with a second category of the plurality of related categories. For example model building service identifies a second subset of 30 000 categorized objects within content item repository associated with the hashtag winner that are associated with the category football i.e. with an LOC of 30 .

If there is at least one content item in the first subset of categorized objects that is not in the second subset of categorized objects then model building service can combine the information for the two subsets of categorized objects and create a composite mapping that maps the hashtag with a category to which the categories of the two subsets are related. For example the subset of content items associated with winner that are also associated with the category baseball and the subset of content items associated with winner that are also associated with the category football have no content items in common. Model building service combines the statistics for the two subsets of content items and creates a composite mapping between the category sports to which both baseball and football are related and the hashtag winner with an LOC of 52 . The LOC of such a composite mapping may be calculate by any manner of calculating levels of confidence.

Many times content items are associated with multiple hashtags. Metadata categorizer service can use the information in metadata model for each hashtag associated with a particular content item to help categorize the content item. To illustrate metadata categorizer service receives information for a content item associated with the hashtags EndTheShutdown and Democrats. Metadata model includes at least one mapping for each of the hashtags associated with the received content item. Metadata categorizer service determines that EndTheShutdown is associated with the category politics at an LOC of 90 within metadata model and that Democrats is associated with the category politics at an LOC of 85 within metadata model . In response metadata categorizer service associates the content item with the category politics e.g. at an LOC of 90 .

As a further example model building service determines that at least two of the multiple hashtags for a particular content item are associated with categories respectively that are related. Metadata categorizer service associates the content item with a content category based at least in part on a composite mapping created from mappings of the related content items. For example metadata categorizer service receives a particular content item associated with both homerun and touchdown. Within metadata model the hashtag homerun is associated with the category baseball and the hashtag touchdown is associated with the category football . From content analysis e.g. performed by model building service metadata model includes information that the categories baseball and football are both associated with the category sports . Such information in metadata model indicates that baseball is a related category to sports and that football is a related category to sports . From the information in metadata model metadata categorizer service infers that the received content item can be categorized as sports . According to an embodiment metadata categorizer service assigns to the categorization of the content item with sports a higher LOC than a categorization of the content item with either of the categories baseball or football since the content item is associated with two somewhat independent indicators that the item is about sports i.e. homerun and touchdown .

Furthermore according to an embodiment model building service maps the coincidence of multiple hashtags with one or more content categories. For example model building service receives information for a traditionally categorized content item that is mapped to two or more hashtags which is a coincidence of the two or more hashtags. Model building service records an association within metadata model between coincidence of the two or more hashtags or a subset thereof having at least two hashtags and a particular category with which the received content item is associated.

As a more specific illustration model building service receives information for a content item that is mapped to both EndTheShutdown and love which through traditional categorization is associated with the content category politics . Model building service records information for a mapping between coincidence of EndTheShutdown and love and the category politics . Metadata categorizer service receives a not yet categorized content item that is associated with both EndTheShutdown and love. Metadata categorizer service associates the content item with the category politics based at least in part on the mapping between coincidence of EndTheShutdown and love and the category politics . The LOC for this association is calculated as indicated above.

According to an embodiment metadata categorizer service applies a mapping that maps the coincidence of multiple hashtags to categorize a not yet categorized content item when the mapping of the coincidence of multiple hashtags results in a better LOC than a categorization for the content item that is based on mappings for single hashtags within metadata model . According to an embodiment metadata categorizer service categorizes a content item based on mappings for single hashtags within metadata model and then adjusts the LOC of the association based on the mapping of the coincidence of multiple hashtags of the content item.

Categorization of a content item may be used in a variety of ways. To illustrate browser on client device requests a web page which represents a web portal application from web portal service . In response to the request web portal service sends information for the requested web page i.e. web page to browser . Browser interprets the information for web page and causes a graphical user interface of the web page to be displayed at a display device for client device .

The web portal application represented in web page displays categorized content items e.g. in lists of content items organized by topic or category. The web portal application includes a content item in a particular list when the content item is associated with one or more categories for the particular list with at least a threshold LOC such as 90 .

The web portal application also displays categorized content items in a personalized content item list. The web portal application includes a content item in the personalized content item list when the content item is associated with one or more categories with at least a threshold LOC such as 75 in which the target user has shown interest.

Furthermore when a user clicks on or spends time on a particular content item the web portal application can use this information to determine the interests of the user. Specifically the web portal application may record that the user has interest in categories associated with a content item in which a user has expressed interest. For example the web portal application combines the categories with which such a content item is associated and at what levels of confidence with the duration of time spent on the article and other indications of interest to determine a probability that the user is interested in the indicated content categories.

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor may be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or solid state drive is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operate in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical disks magnetic disks or solid state drives such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction.

