---

title: Automated programming of infusion therapy
abstract: An infusion management system includes an infusion management server configured for providing an order to an infusion device to administer an infusion and the infusion device. The infusion device may be configured for receiving the order, associating the order with a patient, and adjusting at least one setting according to the order. A method for administering an infusion, an interface for an infusion device and a computer program product are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09649431&OS=09649431&RS=09649431
owner: Ivenix, Inc.
number: 09649431
owner_city: Amesbury
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140204
---
This application is filed under 35 U.S.C. 111 a and claims benefit of an earlier filing date under 35 U.S.C. 120. Specifically this application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 761 126 entitled Automated Programming of Infusion Therapy through Information Association filed on Feb. 5 2013 the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by this reference.

Additionally this application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 761 119 entitled Clinical Association Server filed on Feb. 5 2013 the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by this reference.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 172 048 entitled Medical Device Management Using Associations filed on the same day as the present application the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by this reference.

The invention disclosed herein relates to dispensing medication to a patient and in particular to systems for infusing a patient with medication.

A long standing practice of healthcare providers has been to infuse patients with medication. Intravenous supply of fluids such as saline solution have provide for stabilizing the health of a patient. In conjunction with intravenous supply of fluids healthcare providers very often include other medication such as antibiotic. In fact healthcare providers provide a myriad of different agents to patients in this manner. Accordingly there is a substantial complement of equipment available to healthcare providers to facilitate infusing patients with medication.

Generally an infusion device also referred to herein as a pump and by other similar terms is set up and programmed by a caregiver. That is once a caregiver has coupled the proper medication the caregiver will then review the medication orders and manually program the device in order to dispense the medication.

As one might imagine such processes can be time consuming and provide many opportunities for human error. In an increasingly busy environment such tools are cumbersome and can present genuine liability to the providers.

What are needed are methods and apparatus for improving infusion of medication for a patient. Preferably the methods and apparatus provide for fewer user interactions and thus lower occurrence of medication errors.

In one embodiment an infusion management system is disclosed. The system includes an infusion management server configured for providing an order to an infusion device to administer an infusion and the infusion device wherein the infusion device is configured for receiving the order associating the order with a patient and adjusting at least one setting according to the order.

In another embodiment a method for administering an infusion is provided. The method includes selecting an infusion device that is in communication with an infusion management system associating the infusion device with a patient receiving at least one order for the patient from the infusion management system and initiating the administration according to the at least one order.

In yet another embodiment an interface for an infusion device is provided. The interface includes a controller configured for communicating with and controlling the infusion device a user interface configured for coupling with the controller and receiving user input and at least one port for communicating with an infusion management system wherein the infusion management system includes an infusion management server configured for providing an order to the infusion device to administer an infusion and the controller is configured for receiving the order associating the order with a patient and adjusting at least one setting of the infusion device according to the order.

In a further embodiment a computer program product is provided. The computer program product includes machine executable instructions stored on machine readable media. The product is configured for controlling an infusion device by executing a method that includes receiving an order object from an infusion management server the order object including information for dispensing medication adjusting the infusion device according to the order object and administering the infusion.

Disclosed herein is an infusion management system for managing infusions of medications to patients in a healthcare setting. Generally the methods and apparatus disclosed provide smart technologies that make use of substantial patient information monitor processes and pass information such as status information in order to keep caregivers informed and to simplify medical administration as well as system administration.

The infusion management system generally includes an infusion management server that is in communication with at least one and more often a plurality of infusion devices. The infusion management server provides enhanced functionality and control over each one of the infusion devices.

Embodiments of the infusion management system provide for automatically programming an infusion device to deliver a highly controllable infusion of medication. Embodiments herein may include using patient medication orders acquired from order entry and pharmacy information systems within the healthcare enterprise and providing those orders as order objects to an infusion device. Embodiments herein provide for automatically programming of the infusion device using information contained in the selected order.

Generally the infusion management server IMS includes components deemed appropriate for performing the functions described herein. Some of the components that may be appropriately relied upon or a part of the infusion management server IMS are described below see . Embodiments of the infusion management server IMS are not to be limited by those embodiments disclosed herein and may include or exclude as appropriate components and aspects known to those skilled in the art for performing the functions described and or claimed herein. More specifically components used in any specific embodiment of the infusion management server IMS are limited only by the needs and or resources available to a respective user designer owner manufacturer or other similarly interested party.

As an overview in some embodiments the infusion management server IMS includes a computer server through which medication orders are acquired from an enterprise such as a hospital or other health care environment . The orders may be obtained electronically and or submitted manually. In some embodiments the orders are then stored on the infusion management server IMS and managed through their entire lifecycle. In addition associations between infusion devices and the respective patients may be established at each infusion device sent to the infusion management server IMS where association information is stored and managed. In addition the infusion management system includes at least one infusion device most often a plurality of infusion devices . The infusion device has the capability to query the infusion management server IMS for medication orders present a list of non administered orders to a user in a selectable format on a display screen of the infusion device and then use the properties of the selected order to automatically program infusion settings for administration of medication.

In some embodiments upon the start of delivery for a programmed infusion the infusion device notifies the infusion management server IMS . As a result the infusion management server IMS removes the associated order from the list of pending order administrations. Multiple infusion devices can be associated with the same patient. Upon notification that an order has been administered this information is made available to other infusion devices associated with the same patient which prevents that order from being select on that order any other infusion device.

Accordingly the infusion management system disclosed herein provides users with a system that enables simple and efficient administration of infusion devices and therefore medication for a patient. Prior to discussing the technology in greater detail some concepts are now introduced.

As discussed herein the term automatic generally refers to performance of a process where at least one step requiring human interaction has been eliminated or the level of human interaction has been substantially reduced. The term automatic is not meant to imply complete elimination of human interaction. For example in some instances it is desired to have human interaction to ensure appropriate error checking and to affirm proper operation prior to advancement of the process. Accordingly it is considered that semi automatic partially automated and other such processes may be considered as automatic or automated in at least some instances.

As discussed herein the term medication generally refers to any substance that is to be administered to a patient according to the direction of a caregiver. Examples of medication include medicine administered for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes liquids such as those providing nutrition or hydration and any other similar substance. Generally medication administered as disclosed herein is fluidic and suited for administration with an infusion device.

As discussed herein the term infusion device generally refers to a device that includes components appropriate for dispensing fluids such as those that contain medication to the patient. Exemplary components of an infusion device include without limitation a pump a power supply an inlet an outlet at least one valve and the user interface. Additional components may include a processor memory data storage a screen such as one providing a graphical user interface and at least one type of network interface. Non limiting examples of a network interface include wired interfaces such as Ethernet USB and the like wireless interfaces such as Wi Fi implementing 802.11 protocol Bluetooth near field communications NFC and the like and optical interfaces such as an infrared port a fiber port and the like . The infusion device may be outfitted with additional components such as a barcode reader a radio frequency identification RFID interface and the like. The infusion device may implement machine executable instructions stored on machine readable media in order to execute a method. The machine executable instructions may be referred to as software. Functionality of the infusion device is not necessarily contained within a single box or discrete device. For example software used to control the infusion device may be accessed through the network interface.

The infusion device may be configured for providing medication in any manner deemed appropriate. For example the infusion device may be configured to provide medication on a continuing basis an intermittent basis a demand basis according to a predetermined profile or in some combination of the foregoing. The infusion device may be configured to pump large volumes such as volumes of nutrients and or fluid. The infusion device may be configured to pump small volumes such as volumes of hormones or anesthetics. The infusion device may be configured with any type of pump deemed appropriate. For example the infusion device may make use of a peristaltic pump a screw a pressurized bag a gravity feed or any other type of device that may urge the dispensing of the medication.

The infusion device may be configured with a variety of redundant features. For example the infusion device may be configured with redundant power supplies including main and backup batteries processors and other such components. Software used to operate the infusion device may be configured with features that require double checking and other aspects designed to overcome or address human factors issues.

A variety of aspects of the infusion device may be internally adjusted through a controller e.g. an onboard and or remote processor . For example the delivery mechanism communications system monitoring and the like may be controlled via the controller. Accordingly these aspects and others may be controlled through implementations of software. As discussed herein the terms order and order objects are closely related. Accordingly one is not to be construed as exclusive of the other and in some embodiments the order and the order object may be identical. Generally the term order is used to signify a prescribed order for medication to be given to a patient while the term order object is used to signify a translation of the prescription into a form that is usable or consumable by a given infusion device. The order object is used to inform the infusion device how it should be programmed in order to deliver the respective order.

Turning now to aspects of an exemplary infusion management system are shown. In general the infusion management system includes an infusion management server IMS that communicates with a respective infusion device . In this example the infusion management server IMS receives information from systems contained within an enterprise .

As an overview of the infusion management system it may be considered that the infusion management server IMS receives orders from the enterprise . Alternatively the infusion management server IMS may have a separate interface for receiving orders . The infusion management server IMS will assemble appropriate information and format order objects from the orders . The order objects are then communicated to a respective infusion device . The infusion device is used to administer the medication to the patient. The infusion device may communicate device status information as well as other information such as a request to the infusion management server IMS . The infusion management server IMS may analyze the device status information and provide analysis results. Additionally the infusion management server IMS may forward the device status information upstream to the enterprise . Generally information communicated from the infusion management server IMS to the enterprise is communicated as system status information .

Generally the infusion management server IMS includes computing resources as necessary or appropriate for enabling functionality described herein. For example the infusion management server IMS may include one or more servers at least one user interface zero or more networked personal computers tablets or other personal computing devices a variety of computing interfaces and other such features. The infusion management server IMS may include machine executable instructions stored on machine readable media in order to execute a method. The machine executable instructions may be referred to as software. 

Generally the term enterprise refers to computer systems networks and other devices that are presently available in a healthcare environment and it may be relied upon to interface at least in part with the infusion management system . Generally at least one component of the enterprise may be configured to communicate information to the infusion management server and to access information available elsewhere within the enterprise . Exemplary information maintained by the enterprise patient profile information comprehensive medical records diagnostic information therapeutic information insurance information caregiver profile information and other similar information. The enterprise may include other connections to or communications with specialized equipment such as imaging apparatus lab equipment remote interfaces and the like. The enterprise may also include information on privileges for system users and may implement security features for controlling access to features of the enterprise and or infusion management system . Accordingly the enterprise may include machine executable instructions stored on machine readable media in order to execute a method. The machine executable instructions may be referred to as software. 

Exemplary systems within the enterprise that may be used to generate a medication order include for example a variety of systems including but not limited to Computerize Physician Order Entry CPOE systems Pharmacy Information Systems PIS and electronic Medication Administration Record eMAR systems.

As a matter of convention and for purposes of discussion it may be considered that the enterprise provides medication information as an order to the infusion management server IMS . Generally the order includes such information as a name brand of medication and a particular dosing protocol. The order may have been ordered by a doctor nurse practitioner or other qualified personnel and is designated for a particular patient.

In some embodiments the infusion management server IMS receives the prescription from the enterprise . Once received the infusion management server IMS may do a variety of things with the order . Exemplary tasks performed by the infusion management server IMS include deriving an order object from the order . The order object generally includes a format for the infusion device that is recognizable to the components therein such as a processor within the infusion device . Accordingly the infusion management server IMS may include a plurality of application programmer interface API modules. Generally each one of the API modules contains configuration information for each type of infusion device that is maintained within the infusion management system . By using an appropriate API the infusion management server IMS may properly format a given order into an order object for the respective type of infusion device .

In some embodiments the infusion management server IMS is configured to receive the order and make substitutions. For example the infusion management server IMS may be configured to provide the order object with a generic version of the medication included in the order . Accordingly the infusion management server IMS may reference a substitutions database such as one that may be accessed from systems of the enterprise . Adjusting the order according to a substitution requirement is one example of applying a policy that is and by way of example a policy of the institution . Accordingly it may be considered that the infusion management server IMS may be configured to apply at least one policy with an order when providing the order object .

The infusion management server IMS may be configured to provide updates to existing orders and indicate when an order has been administered.

In one non limiting embodiment as orders arrive the orders are transformed into order objects and stored by the infusion management server IMS . As updates to orders are received these updates are applied and stored by the infusion management server IMS as well. Changes may include but are not be limited to one or more changes to the order an indication that the associated medication has been dispensed by the pharmacy or an indication that a care provider has administered the associated medication.

In one embodiment a caregiver initiates programming of an infusion device at a local interface such as on a front of the infusion device . Either prior to or as part of the programming process the user may optionally indicate the patient for whom the administration is being delivered.

In some further embodiments the infusion device may send a request to the infusion management server IMS for all outstanding i.e. not already administered orders for a patient that is associated with the infusion device. Additionally the user may request information on any orders directed to that infusion device . In one embodiment the order object that are derived from the orders contain the associated program settings for the infusion device and indicate actions need to be taken for each order that may be selected. For example order objects may include a plurality of settings for parameters such as infusion rate dose concentration duration dose rate volume to be infused the drug name and advisory information.

If start time is imminent for a given order the infusion device can use the associated order object e.g. information indicating the fluid to be injected into the respective patient to auto program itself. If multiple order objects are available they can be presented to a user operating the infusion device in a selectable format. The user may optionally select one of the returned order objects or choose to manually program the infusion device to deliver one or more fluids to a respective patient. Once selected the infusion device will use that order object to automatically program itself. In some embodiments the infusion device and then ask the user to confirm those settings before administering the infusion.

In one embodiment once programmed an association exists between the infusion device the patient the order and the programmed infusion. A user may choose to accept and confirm the settings modify those settings or even disassociate the order with the administration all together.

All user actions can be maintained in an audit history as a way of tracking how the care provider chose to administer the infusion and its relationship with an order . Upon the completion of the infusion this information and an indication that the order was administered is sent to the infusion management server IMS . The infusion management server IMS may optionally publish the audit information and the updated order status to any interested consumers within the healthcare enterprise via an outbound interface.

Any subsequent changes to the infusion such as drug titration may be made through direct manipulation of the program settings on the infusion device . These changes may also be maintained in an audit history which continues to be associated with the initiating order .

The infusion management server IMS may be configured to take into account other aspects of patient care. For example the infusion management server IMS may be configured to adjust delivery of medication according to external factors such as co delivery of other medication by another infusion device . Generally the infusion management server IMS works in conjunction with technology provided through the enterprise provide for such functionality although this is not a requirement.

Generally the infusion management server IMS provides order objects to the infusion device in a format that is appropriate for the respective infusion device . The infusion device may return information such as device status information to the infusion management server IMS . Device status information may include acknowledgment of the order object . As an example of a fail safe mechanism a particular order object received by the infusion device may be returned to the infusion management server IMS as part of the device status information . At this point the infusion management server IMS may perform a comparison of the order that was sent to the infusion device and order objects that were received from the infusion device . If there is not a perfect agreement that is parity between the order and order object the infusion management server IMS may alert the caregiver through the user interface on the infusion device until the caregiver appropriately addresses any disparity.

Similarly the infusion management server IMS may provide information such as system status information to the enterprise . For example the infusion management server IMS may be configured to track a plurality of infusion devices . Accordingly and by way of example the infusion management server IMS may provide system status information to the enterprise where the system status information includes device status information for any given infusion device and or group of infusion devices . The system status information may include group information such as for example percent capacity of usage of infusion devices within the infusion management system include tracking and locating information for each infusion device may provide calibration records and maintenance scheduling for infusion devices and other such information as deemed appropriate. Generally the system status information may include device status information and may further include system information that is useful for managing the infrastructure that is supportive of the infusion management system .

The device status information and the system status information may be parsed in any manner deemed appropriate. For example capacity of usage may be determined according to usage of all infusion devices within the infusion management system . As another example capacity of usage may be determined according to a given criteria such as usage within a care unit a work shift by device type and by other similar criteria. In short device status information and system status information may be combined to provide substantial insight into operation of the infusion management system performance of the infusion management system and insight into patient care and medication administration.

Both device status information and system status information may incorporate appropriate information for enhancing operation of the infusion management system . For example the device status information may include information regarding administration of medication. Additionally the device status information may include device specific information regarding the infusion device . For example the device status information may feedback to the infusion management server IMS condition of a battery for example when the infusion device is being powered by an internal battery .

As one might imagine order objects are not necessarily limited to medication information. For example the information management server IMS may provide information to the infusion device that includes related demographic information or semantic information. For example the order objects that are provided to the infusion device may include date time location information attending physician patient name patient age and other such information as deemed appropriate by a user designer or manufacturer or other similarly interested party.

In some embodiments the infusion device may be configured to retain additional dynamic device information which may also be provided as device status information . Dynamic device information may be provided to the infusion management server IMS to enhance management of the infusion device as well as administration of medications to the patient. Exemplary and non limiting dynamic device information includes records of administrations by a designated infusion device which may in turn include information such as each associated order object or a summary thereof a user history table a location history table a table of device state information calibration information and any similar information deemed appropriate by a user designer or manufacturer or other similarly interested party.

Having explained some of the additional information that may be included in the device status information and the system status information it should be understood that the term device status information and system status information generally signify information that is provided or flows upstream in the infusion management system . That is device status information is not necessarily limited to containing only device status information and or may include additional information that is related to the infusion device or the administration of medication to a patient. Similarly as a matter of convention it may be considered that the order and the order objects flow downstream to the patient.

Other types of information may be communicated between the infusion device the infusion management system IMS and the enterprise . For example requests may be pushed or received upstream or downstream in the infusion management system . Requests may be initiated for example to obtain device status information and or system status information . Requests may be initiated for any type of information deemed appropriate by a user designer manufacturer or other similarly interested party.

Communication of the order the order object device status information and system status information may be performed on a real time substantially real time or near real time basis. That is communications of the foregoing may occur in a manner that is rapid enough to permit a caregiver to administer the infusion management system appropriately to manage care of the patient in a way that is deemed to meet an existing standard of care for a given protocol. That said it is not required that communication of any one of the order the order object the device status information and the system status information be communicated in such a rapid fashion. Again it is merely required that communications are adequate for a caregiver to perform the desired tasks.

Generally the infusion management system is configured to perform tasks on at least one of a semi automated and an automated basis. That is the infusion management system is configured to perform tasks on the basis that minimizes human intervention. Accordingly the infusion management system provides for error reduction when compared to prior art systems and use of personnel for other tasks associated with caregiving.

Communications between the enterprise the infusion management server IMS and the infusion device may be performed in any manner deemed appropriate. The infusion management server IMS may provide multiple communication services. The communication services enable communications amongst various infusion devices and other computer systems within the enterprise . The services can include one or more different types of communication mechanisms. For example one service may be capable of communicating using RESTful web services while another performing the same function may support a TCP sockets based communications protocol and so on. In one non limiting example embodiment the infusion management server IMS communicates using encrypted messaging with the infusion device via a secure HTTP i.e. HTTPS protocol ensuring that communication and the connection between the infusion management server IMS and the infusion device is secure and that messages are fully encrypted.

The infusion management server IMS may operate on a local area network LAN that is public i.e. a non dedicated system . In one embodiment the infusion management server IMS is configured for communicating with infusion devices connected either directly or wirelessly to the public LAN. In some embodiments the infusion management system is operated on an independent network that is dedicated to the infusion management system . In some further embodiments the infusion management system is operated on an independent or dedicated network while retaining the public LAN as a backup communications system.

In summary the infusion management system provides institutions and caregivers with robust capabilities for managing delivery of medication that is dispensed by an infusion device .

Referring now to there is shown a flow chart that depicts aspects of an exemplary protocol for use of the infusion management system . As an overview the exemplary protocol generally includes logging into the infusion device and associating a patient with the infusion device. During setup a user may log into the infusion device manually such as by a keypad and or graphical user interface GUI or automatically such as through RFID recognition or barcode scanning of the user by the infusion device . The infusion device may display the last known patient association that is the identity of the last patient served by the infusion device . If the patient is incorrectly associated with the infusion device the user may associate a new patient with the infusion device. Association of the new patient may be performed manually such as by a keypad and or graphical user interface GUI or automatically such as through RFID recognition or barcode scanning of the patient by the infusion device . Once the user has verified the infusion device is properly associated with a given patient initial setup has been completed.

Once the initial setup has been completed the infusion device will retrieve orders associated with the patient or for the specific device. The infusion device presents the orders to the user. User then selects the appropriate order for administration. Using the selected order the infusion device sets internal parameters such as delivery rate delivery volume and the like. In some embodiments the user is provided with options to adjust the settings established by the automatic configuration by the infusion device. Additionally the user may set optional parameters such as alarm settings and the like. Once setup has been completed the user can initiate infusion. Subsequently and or during the infusion the infusion device may store and or broadcast relevant information about the infusion. The relevant information may be provided locally such as on an interface of the infusion device and or provided as device status information and forwarded to the infusion management server IMS .

Having thus introduced the infusion management system some additional aspects and embodiments are now presented.

The infusion management system includes substantial capacity and flexibility. Accordingly a variety of additional features modes of use protections and limitations may be realized.

As one example of a system protection the infusion device may be configured such that once programmed the infusion device may optionally query the infusion management server IMS to determine the status of other infusions being delivered to the same patient and the medication and settings associated with that infusions. If any conflict exists between the infusion being programmed and any other infusion being administered to the same patient a warning will be presented to the device operator.

In some embodiments if a respective order has a scheduled start time in the future the device operator may be given the option to start the infusion immediately or at the scheduled time.

In some embodiments such as those where repeated administration of a given medication will take place the device operator may be given the option to recall a specific order object for the future administrations.

The infusion device may be configured such that a user may electronically scan at least one of a patient identification bracelet a medicine container or other item to call up a specific order object . For example once a respective infusion device has been associated with a given patient the user may scan a barcode on a bag of fluid and the infusion management system will automatically programmed the infusion device to correlate to an associated order object for that patient.

In some embodiments an infusion device is established for remote operation. For example in infusion device may be set up in the home of a patient and configured to communicate with the infusion management server IMS over the Internet using a secure HTTPS connection. Despite the infusion device being established at a remote location the infusion management system may provide the infusion device with a variety of capabilities such as those described elsewhere here in.

In some other embodiments the infusion device includes retrofit of a prior art infusion device. An appropriate retrofit kit not shown may be used to configure the prior art infusion device for operation within the infusion management system . The retrofit kit may include for example a processing unit configured for communicating with the prior art infusion device such as through an existing communications port on the prior art infusion device . The processing unit may include for example a user display as well as software for communicating with the infusion management server IMS and commanding the prior art infusion device appropriately.

An exemplary device that includes many of the components appropriate for use as a processing unit of a retrofit kit includes a smart phone. Accordingly use of a device such as a smart phone may provide enhanced flexibility with additional communications channels additional commercially available software and the like.

Generally implementations of software as discussed herein include machine executable instructions stored on machine readable media as a non transitory signal. Embodiments of software may be programs in any language deemed appropriate. Generally implementations of software provided herein include objects that are defined using eXtensible Markup Language XML . However the software provided herein may be defined in any manner deemed appropriate. For example other tools for platform independent software may be used. Combinations of software languages compilers and other development tools may be used. Other types of development tools include scripting languages integrated development environments build tools and a variety of other types of tools. At least a portion of the software may be implemented as firmware. That is at least a portion of the software may be provided in read only memory. Exemplary aspects of the infusion management system that may be implemented as firmware include portions relating to authentication and security.

Software firmware and other components as described herein may rely upon a computer a computing network and other such technologies. Exemplary aspects of a computing environment are depicted in . At least some of the aspects depicted in may be implemented in a respective infusion device a retrofit for a prior art infusion device the infusion management server or as are otherwise deemed appropriate.

Referring now to exemplary aspects of a computer are depicted. Computer has one or more central processing units processors etc. collectively or generically referred to as processor s . Processors are in communication with system memory and various other components via a system bus . Read only memory ROM is in communication with the system bus and may include a built in operating system BIOS which controls certain basic functions of computer . Additionally the system bus may provide power to the processor system memory and read only memory .

A communications adapter interconnects system bus with an outside network enabling computer to communicate with other systems such as the enterprise . The communications adapter may be supportive of at least of one of wired and wireless communication protocols. For example the communications adapter may support protocols such as wired Ethernet wi fi e.g. 802.11 protocols UMTS dial up active sync cellular using protocols such as for example GSM GPRS EDGE CDMA TDMA 3G 4G and the like . Generally the communications adapter communicates with a network and may communicate directly or indirectly with the Internet .

The computer is powered by a suitable power supply . In some embodiments the power supply includes at least one transformer for receiving alternating current AC and transforming the AC into a suitable form of direct current DC . In other embodiments the power supply includes at least one battery. The power supply may include appropriate circuitry for receiving and controlling various forms of input power.

Input output devices are shown as connected to system bus via user interface UI adapter . A keyboard a pointing device e.g. a mouse and speaker may be included and interconnected to system bus via user interface adapter . Other user interface components may be included as deemed appropriate.

A display adapter connects display monitor is connected to system bus . The display adapter and or display monitor may be configured with various components such as a graphics adapter to improve the performance of graphics intensive applications a video controller a capacitive i.e. touch screen display and the like.

In some embodiments adapters and may be connected to one or more I O busses that are connected to system bus via an intermediate bus bridge not shown . Suitable I O buses for connecting peripheral devices such as hard disk controllers network adapters and graphics adapters may include common protocols such as the Peripheral Components Interface PCI bus.

Generally the computer stores machine readable instructions on machine readable media such as in ROM RAM or in the mass storage unit . The machine readable instructions referred to herein as software as an application as a client a process a plug in and by other similar terms generally provide for functionality as will be discussed in detail further herein.

Some of the machine readable instructions on machine readable media may include an operating environment. For example and as presented herein a suitable operating environment is WINDOWS available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. . Software as provided herein may be developed in for example SQL language which is a cross vendor query language for managing relational databases. Aspects of the software may be implemented with other software. For example user interfaces may be provided in XML HTML and the like.

The computer may include or exclude as appropriate the foregoing components and other components. For example other components such as routers bridges firewalls switches servers middleware and other components may be available.

In some embodiments the computer may be designed and configured for stationary operation while in some other embodiments the computer is designed and configured for mobile operation. Some exemplary embodiments of commonly available mobile computers that may be suited for practice of the teachings herein include laptops smart phones tablets and the like.

A computing system may include a plurality of computers . For example in the system at least one computer in the plurality may include substantial storage memory processors mass storage and the like. Generally such a configuration may be useful as the infusion management server. At least one computer in the plurality may be designed with mobility as a primary purpose. For example memory may replace a hard disk due to a physically compact nature of the memory. Generally such a configuration is useful as a mobile computer a mobile station or by other similar terms. Such latter embodiments may be useful in support of the infusion devices.

A particular computer in a computing system may be purpose oriented. For example a computing infrastructure may use one computer principally as the infusion management server IMS and a plurality of other computers as input devices e.g. as infusion devices configured for being operated remotely by users for interfacing with the computing infrastructure as a console e.g. a dedicated system for managing the computing infrastructure and the like.

It should be recognized that some functionality as may be described herein may be implemented by hardware such as by the foregoing components or by software as appropriate. Accordingly where reference is made to implementation in one manner or another such implementation is merely illustrative and is not limiting of techniques described. In short the foregoing description of the computer and systems making use of or incorporating the computer merely provides an environment for the teachings herein and is not to be construed as limiting but as illustrative of aspects of the computer and systems that incorporate the computer .

Various other components may be included and called upon for providing for aspects of the teachings herein. For example additional materials combinations of materials and or omission of materials may be used to provide for added embodiments that are within the scope of the teachings herein.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the embodiments thereof the articles a an and the are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. Similarly the adjective another when used to introduce an element is intended to mean one or more elements. The terms including and having are intended to be inclusive such that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications will be appreciated by those skilled in the art to adapt a particular instrument situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

