---

title: Systems and methods for displaying current consumer card status on a wireless device
abstract: A system for object tracking may comprise a system for displaying consumer account information on a wireless device comprising at least one subsystem that receives transaction information regarding a purchase of the consumer, at least one subsystem that sends selected transaction information regarding the transaction to a wireless device, and at least one subsystem that displays on the wireless device account information based on the sent selected transaction information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619838&OS=09619838&RS=09619838
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 09619838
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140725
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 208 612 filed on Sep. 11 2008 the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference. The patent applications below including the present patent application share a common title and disclosure each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety 

It often occurs that people who use credit cards do not know their credit limit or even if they do know their credit limit they may not know at any given moment how close their current balance on their credit card is to their limit or if they have gone over their limit. This often results in extra fees for going over their credit limit and overuse of the credit card. It may also be difficult for credit card users to control spending without a constant reminder of what their credit balance is. This may result in defaults on the credit card bankruptcy and a bad credit history for the credit card holder.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In consideration of the above identified shortcomings of the art systems and methods for displaying current consumer card status on a wireless device are provided. For several embodiments a system for displaying current consumer card status on a wireless device may comprise a system for displaying consumer account information on a wireless device comprising at least one subsystem that receives transaction information regarding a purchase of the consumer at least one subsystem that sends selected transaction information regarding the transaction to a wireless device and at least one subsystem that displays on the wireless device account information based on the sent selected transaction information.

Certain specific details are set forth in the following description and figures to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments. Certain well known details often associated with computing and software technology are not set forth in the following disclosure to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the various embodiments. Further those of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that they can practice other embodiments without one or more of the details described below. Finally while various methods are described with reference to steps and sequences in the following disclosure the description as such is for providing a clear implementation of various embodiments and the steps and sequences of steps should not be taken as required to practice the embodiments.

Referring next to shown is a block diagram representing an exemplary computing device suitable for use in conjunction with implementing the processes described below. For example the computer executable instructions that carry out the processes and methods for displaying current consumer card status on a wireless device may reside and or be executed in such a computing environment as shown in . The computing environment is only one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the embodiments. Neither should the computing environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary computing environment . For example a computer game console may also include those items such as those described below for use in conjunction with implementing the processes described below.

Aspects of the embodiments are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Aspects of the embodiments may be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Aspects of the embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

An exemplary system for implementing aspects of the embodiments includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit graphics processing unit GPU and video memory . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computer may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the memory storage device . By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the embodiments or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the embodiments. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the embodiments e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the embodiments in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the embodiments are not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the embodiments may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers handheld devices supercomputers or computers integrated into other systems such as automobiles and airplanes.

Referring next to shown is an exemplary networked computing environment in which many computerized processes may be implemented to perform the processes described below. For example parallel computing may be part of such a networked environment with various clients on the network of using and or implementing systems and methods for displaying current consumer card status on a wireless device. One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that networks can connect any computer or other client or server device or in a distributed computing environment. In this regard any computer system or environment having any number of processing memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring simultaneously is considered suitable for use in connection with the systems and methods provided.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by exchange between computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for files. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may implicate the processes described herein.

This network may itself comprise other computing entities that provide services to the system of and may itself represent multiple interconnected networks. In accordance with aspects of the embodiments each entity and may contain discrete functional program modules that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware to request services of one or more of the other entities and .

It can also be appreciated that an object such as may be hosted on another computing device . Thus although the physical environment depicted may show the connected devices as computers such illustration is merely exemplary and the physical environment may alternatively be depicted or described comprising various digital devices such as PDAs televisions MP3 players etc. software objects such as interfaces COM objects and the like.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems may be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks. Any such infrastructures whether coupled to the Internet or not may be used in conjunction with the systems and methods provided.

A network infrastructure may enable a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. In computing a client is a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the example of any entity and can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances.

A server is typically though not necessarily a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects may be distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

Client s and server s communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by protocol layer s . For example HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that is used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW or the Web. Typically a computer network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or other reference such as a Universal Resource Locator URL can be used to identify the server or client computers to each other. The network address can be referred to as a URL address. Communication can be provided over a communications medium e.g. client s and server s may be coupled to one another via TCP IP connection s for high capacity communication.

In light of the diverse computing environments that may be built according to the general framework provided in and the further diversification that can occur in computing in a network environment such as that of the systems and methods provided herein cannot be construed as limited in any way to a particular computing architecture. Instead the embodiments should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

Referring next to shown is a flow chart illustrating an example process for displaying current consumer card status on a wireless device. After a customer makes a purchase using a consumer card information regarding the purchase is sent to the customer s wireless device. For the purposes described herein using a consumer card means using either a physical debit or credit card to complete the purchase or using a credit or debit card account number or other account information to complete the purchase regardless of whether a physical card is present or involved in the transaction. The information sent to the wireless device may be made over a wireless or other communication channel. The wireless device to which the information is sent may be but is not limited to one or a combination of following types of devices cellular phone smart phone personal digital assistant handheld computing device notebook computer satellite communication enabled device long range radio communication enabled device short range radio enabled device BlueTooth enabled device Wireless Fidelity WiFi communication enabled device ultrasonic communication enabled device infrared communication enabled device radio frequency identification RFID communication enabled device etc.

The information sent to the wireless device may be but is not limited to one or more or a combination of the following types of information transaction information transaction identification information time and or date of transaction transaction amount merchant name merchant category goods or services bought or returned identification information regarding goods or services bought or returned type of goods or services bought or returned category of goods or services bought or returned account balance account identification information account number name on account credit limit whether a credit limit has been reached credit limit increase notification notice and or reason for a transaction decline advertising information offer for credit increase aggregated information on multiple consumer accounts aggregated information on multiple transactions etc.

The information is sent to the wireless device in a relatively short time from the time of the transaction or purchase in order for the customer and the wireless device to have the most current information as possible. The information may be sent in real time to the wireless device immediately after the transaction is completed. Once the wireless device receives the sent information the wireless device updates a display on the wireless device based on information sent to the wireless device. For example the display may be updated by the wireless device presenting on the display a graphical audio and or textual representation of one or more of or a combination of but not limited to the following pieces of information or presentations general account information a current account balance relative to a credit limit of the account a color coded graphical indication representing a current account balance relative to a credit limit of the account a graphical dial indicating a current account balance relative to a credit limit of the account a current balance of the account a current credit limit of the account a current account balance relative to budget limits set by a user of the wireless device a current account balance relative to budget limits set by a user of the account and or wireless device a graph showing a current account balance relative to a credit limit of the account a chart showing a current account balance relative to a credit limit of the account a graph or chart showing a current account balance relative to budget limits set by a user of the account and or wireless device total purchases broken down by category total purchases broken down by category relative to budgeted amounts corresponding to one or more of the categories one or more of the foregoing pieces of information or presentations concerning aggregated information from multiple accounts etc. For example regarding the foregoing pieces of information or presentations concerning aggregated information from multiple accounts the display may be updated to show either together or separately a chart graph or warning of how close a user of the wireless device is to exceeding their credit limits for a number of different accounts. As another example the display may be updated to show a graph chart or other indication of total purchases over a specific time period e.g. a month across a number of different accounts relative to a budgeted amount for that specific time period. Such a display may also be broken down by spending category or budget category for example.

Referring next to shown is a flow chart illustrating an example process for displaying current consumer card status on a wireless device for multiple card accounts. After a customer makes a purchase using a consumer card a determination may be made whether account aggregation has been enabled. This enablement of account aggregation may for example have been the result of a user indicating multiple accounts for which the user desires to receive information displayed on a wireless device. This enablement of account aggregation may also be in an automated fashion as a result of a general indication made by a user that the user desires to have such aggregation service enabled. If account aggregation has been enabled then information regarding the purchase is sent to an account aggregation service. The account aggregation service may be a part of or separate from the card company card issuing bank or other financial services company used by the customer. The account aggregation service then sends information to a wireless device e.g. the customer s wireless device regarding an aggregation of customer accounts. This aggregation may be of multiple types of accounts including but not limited to one or more of credit card debit card checking savings investment insurance retirement trading etc.

If account aggregation has not been enabled then information regarding the purchase is sent to the wireless device in similar fashion to that described above for example. The wireless device may then update a display of the wireless device based on the information sent to the wireless device in a similar fashion described above.

Referring next to shown is a block diagram illustrating an example system for displaying current consumer card status on a wireless device. The example system shown in is one in which the processes described above may be implemented however other suitable variations and systems are contemplated including those having more less or different components and may also be used to accomplish the same or equivalent purposes. Shown is an example customer an example payment device an example credit card company an example issuing bank a determination point of whether account aggregation is to be used an account aggregation service and associated database an example wireless device and an example graphical indication of current account balance relative to a credit limit . Also shown are differently shaped arrows representing either an authorization request authorization response or sending of a short message service SMS message although other types of messaging or communication channels may be utilized .

The customer may make a purchase with their consumer card through a payment device . The payment device may be any device or system which the customer or merchant uses to communicate transaction information to the credit card company . For example an authorization request for a credit card transaction may be made through a payment device at a merchant where the customer is making a purchase. Also the payment device may be any system that processes a consumer card transaction of the customer using the consumer card number or other account information of the customer originating from a merchant. The credit card company then communicates the authorization request to the issuing bank for example. The issuing bank may be the bank that issued the consumer card to the customer . Once the issuing bank receives the authorization request an authorization response approving or declining the transaction may be sent back to the payment device . It is then determined at a point of determination whether account aggregation is enabled. If account aggregation is enabled a message is sent to an account aggregation service to collect information on other accounts of the customer such as for example current account balance current transaction s amounts etc. If account aggregation is not enabled the message is not sent to an account aggregation service. This information may be stored in a database of the account aggregation service . A message e.g. an SMS message is then sent to the wireless device from the account aggregation service and or the credit card company and or the issuing bank containing information e.g. the transaction amount transaction category etc. regarding the transaction. The wireless device then updates the display of the wireless device to show account information based on the received message. For example the wireless device may keep a running total of the account balance or account balances based on the received message containing the transaction amount and display an graphical indication of the account balance s relative to a current credit limit of the account s .

Referring next to shown is a diagram illustrating example indicators that may be used in displaying current consumer card status on a wireless device. For example shown are four different colored indicators represented by four different patterns. Each indicator represents a different level of current account balance relative to a credit limit. The green indicator represents that the current balance is well under the credit limit the blue indicator represents that the account balance is close to the credit limit the yellow indicator represents the account balance is very close to the credit limit and the red indicator represents the account balance is over the credit limit. Other colors symbols and graphical indicators may also be used to communicate to a consumer via the graphical display of a wireless device account balance information relative to a credit limit.

Referring next to shown is a front view of a wireless device in the form of an example cell phone displaying an example indicator that may be used in displaying current consumer card status on a wireless device. Shown on the display of the wireless device is a graphical indicator such as that of . The graphical indicator in the example of is displayed near the top of the display along with other indicators of status of the wireless device . For example the indicator is colored green to show the account balance is well under a current credit limit of a user of the wireless device .

Referring next to shown is a front view of an example handheld wireless computing device displaying an example indicator that may be used in displaying current consumer card status on a wireless device. Shown is the wireless device and the wireless device desktop display containing various items and or icons one of which is a graphical indicator . The graphical indicator may have an image whose color indicates an account balance relative to a credit limit. For example the image in has a blue color to indicate the credit card account balance of the user of the wireless device is close to the user s credit limit. Also the user may click on or otherwise select the indicator to retrieve additional information regarding the user s account s for example The image may also appear on other areas of the display such as at the top of the device for example.

Referring next to shown is a diagram illustrating an example dial indicator that may be used in displaying current consumer card status on a wireless device. Shown is the dial indicator wherein different positions or sections of the dial indicator indicate different levels of account balance relative to a credit limit. For example the green section represents that the current balance is well under the credit limit the blue section represents that the account balance is close to the credit limit the yellow section represents that the account balance is very close to the credit limit and the red section represents that the account balance is over the credit limit. The dial pointer points to the appropriate section according to the current account balance. Additional or different levels colors and or indications of account balance may also be used.

Referring next to shown is a front view of an example cell phone displaying an example dial indicator that may be used in displaying current consumer card status on a wireless device. Shown is the example wireless device having a display . On the display is shown an example dial indicator such as that shown in for example indicating a current credit card account balance relative to a current credit limit. The dial indicator may be part of the home screen background or wall paper of the wireless device display so that the user of the wireless device may easily see the current information regarding their account at almost any time without having to select additional menu items or navigate through a user interface for example.

Referring next to shown is a front view of an example handheld wireless computing device displaying an example dial indicator that may be used in displaying current consumer card status on a wireless device. Shown is the wireless device and the wireless device desktop display containing various items and or icons one of which is a graphical dial indicator such as that of for example. The dial of the dial indicator will move to the appropriate section of the dial indicator according to a current credit card account balance as determined by the processes described above for example relative to a current credit limit. Also the user may click on or otherwise select the dial indicator to retrieve additional information regarding the user s account s .

It is noted that the foregoing examples have been provided merely for the purpose of explanation and are in no way to be construed as limiting of the present invention. While the invention has been described with reference to various embodiments it is understood that the words which have been used herein are words of description and illustration rather than words of limitations. Further although the invention has been described herein with reference to particular means materials and embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed herein rather the invention extends to all functionally equivalent structures methods and uses such as are within the scope of the appended claims. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings of this specification may effect numerous modifications thereto and changes may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention in its aspects.

