---

title: System and method for pre-evaluation vehicle diagnostic and repair cost estimation
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for estimating a diagnosis of a vehicle in need of repair in advance of performing any diagnostic tests on the vehicle. The invention further estimates the costs for a repair to a vehicle in need of repair in advance of performing any diagnostic tests to the vehicle. The system is particularly useful at a point-of-sale system in a vehicle repair center or in a off-site customer access tool.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09111264&OS=09111264&RS=09111264
owner: PRECISION AUTO REPAIR CENTER OF STAMFORD, LLC
number: 09111264
owner_city: Bridgeport
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140707
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Ser. No. 61 843 546 filed Jul. 8 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for estimating a diagnosis of a mechanical system in need of a repair prior to evaluating the mechanical system as well as systems and methods for estimating the costs to repair the mechanical system in view of the estimated diagnosis. More particularly the invention relates to such systems and methods where the mechanical systems are automotive vehicles.

Automotive vehicles are complex mechanical system and at times break down or fail to operate at optimum performance such that repair or servicing is necessary. When a potential customer brings a vehicle to a vehicle service center VSC for servicing it is difficult to provide a diagnosis of the problem before an experienced technician connects a diagnostic code reader to the vehicle s computer and analyzes diagnostic codes received from the vehicle s computer places the vehicle on a lift and physically examines the vehicle and or takes the vehicle for a test drive. In addition limited technician resources at a VSC can result in significant wait times before a vehicle is evaluated. Therefore in order for the potential customer to receive diagnostic feedback as to the problem or otherwise service the vehicle as well as an estimate of the costs to repair the problem the vehicle may need to be left at the VSC for an uncertain period of time before the results of any diagnostics are reported to the potential customer. This can greatly inconvenience or frustrate the potential customer. Further as some potential customer may be unwilling to wait or leave the vehicle for the time required for the initial diagnostics the potential customer may leave without having the appropriate repair performed which can result in lost revenue for the VSC.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in simplified form that are further described below in the Detail Description of the Preferred Embodiments. This summary is not intended to identify all of the key features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for estimating a diagnosis of a vehicle in need of repair or other servicing hereinafter individually or collectively repair in advance of performing any diagnostic tests on or physical evaluation of the vehicle. The invention further estimates the costs for a repair to a vehicle in need of servicing in advance of performing any diagnostic tests on or physical evaluation of to the vehicle. The system is particularly useful at a point of sale POS system in a vehicle service center VSC .

The system includes a database and service logic in communication with at least one and preferably multiple user interfaces. The database includes a memory that stores i customer information data ii vehicle data including vehicle type vehicle areas of each vehicle type that can be potentially subject areas requiring repair symptoms of malperformance to the respective areas and historical repair data for respective the symptoms of vehicles serviced at one or more the VSCs and iii repair cost data. The historical data may include data from a single location service center or more preferably includes collective data from multiple service centers whose data at least with respect to historical repair data for repairing the area to resolve the symptoms relative to like vehicle types. The historical repair data is collectively accessible by each of the respective VSCs over a telecommunications network. The term issue as used herein is defined as a symptom in relation to an area of a vehicle.

The service logic is coupled to the database and adapted to calculate a pre diagnostic confidence level of various potential repairs for the customer s vehicle based on historical repairs for like symptoms to the area of the same type of vehicle stored in the historical data. The confidence level for each potential repair is calculated as the total number of vehicles in the database corresponding to the customer s vehicle type that have historically have a specified repair for a customer specified vehicle issue divided by the total number of vehicles in the database of the customer s vehicle type that have been repaired for the customer specified vehicle issue. The service logic also ranks the various potential repairs in order of the calculated confidence level for each potential repair.

The processor logic also calculates an estimate of the repair cost for each ranked potential repair based on repair cost data. The repair cost data includes data that may be located solely in the stored data of the database or may include a combination of data from the database as well as local repair cost data from the VSC or other sources to estimate both time cost and as well as part costs for the potential repair. Alternatively all repair cost data may be calculated from data obtained at the VSC.

In accord with a preferred aspect of the invention the query to the data system is performed at a user interface. The interface can include a graphical user interface GUI that is configured to interact with the database data to carry out the one or more queries associated with this system processes. The system preferably comprises multiple user interfaces located at multiple vehicle service centers VSC that can communicate with the data storage and processing centers over a telecommunications network. In accord with another aspect of the invention at least some of the user interfaces are in the form of the point of sale POS systems located at one or more VSCs. While the user interface is preferably in the form of a relatively stationary POS system located at a VSC the POS system may comprise a terminal or a mobile computing devices including notebook computers tablets and or telephones capable of having a suitable user interface and accessing the data storage and processing system over a telecommunications network such as the Internet or a virtual private network VPN .

The GUI includes a system for data input as well as information display. The GUI allows input or selection of customer information and customer vehicle information. The GUI also allows input or selection of one or more of pre defined vehicle types vehicle issues and ranked potential repair or potential repair otherwise indicated to have a relative confidence level to other potential repairs once calculated by the system. The input or selection means includes a physical or virtual keyboard a mouse a trackpad a trackball or other input or selection means commonly used in association with a menu or display system.

In addition in accord with another aspect of the system which can be used in conjunction with the above described system the system may be accessible by a customer potential customer or other inquirer hereinafter a customer from a non POS system located outside the VSC that may be of like form to the POS system e.g. a terminal or a mobile computing devices including notebook computers tablets and or telephones capable of having a suitable user interface and network access to the database and service logic over a telecommunications network such as the Internet or a virtual private network VPN that may provide the user with some or all of the functionality discussed above i.e. a pre evaluation estimation of the issue and potentially required repairs for a vehicle preferably including a confidence level of such potentially required repairs. After appropriate user input in accord with the above the system ranks potential repairs prior to evaluation of the customer s vehicle as well as optionally presents an estimation of cost for the ranked potential repairs. The system can direct the customer to a nearest or suitable VSC for vehicle repair. Such system may include a process to locate the customer by geolocating the customer s non POS system or by customer input and lookup of location relevant data such as reference to a customer input zip code for a VSC nearest to where the customer has requested servicing identifying for the customer one or more closest VSC having access to the system and provides logic data structure and an interface for making an appointment for the customer at a selected one of the VSCs to have the customer s vehicle repaired at an appointed date and or time.

Once any customer s vehicle is eventually serviced the historical data is updated to update the repair data for the potential issues for the customer s vehicle type so that such data is available upon subsequent query.

Reference will now be made to the following detailed description of the preferred and alternate embodiments of the present invention. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention provides many inventive concepts and novel features that are merely illustrative and are not to be construed as restrictive. Accordingly the specific embodiments discussed herein are given by way of example and do not limit the scope of the present invention.

For purposes of understanding the context and scope of the system and method a repair as defined herein includes any repair or service that may be necessary or preferable to bring a vehicle into optimum or at least acceptable operating condition. Repair may include the replacement or modification of parts that have ceased to function in accord with their original specification and or any service to a vehicle. Service may include without limitation mechanical electric or electronic reset of components or systems replacement or replenishment of operating fluids and filters cleaning of various components and systems providing appropriate operator advisement on the operation of the vehicle to overcome a vehicle issue perceived by the operator. Other conditions requiring repair are possible and are within the scope of the invention.

More specifically the bridge provides an interface for secure communication between one or more POS terminals and the one or more datacenters that constitute the database and the logic service to thereby enable the one or more vehicle service centers VSC to participate in the pre evaluative repair type and cost estimation and to update data in the database .

The POS terminal can be realized by a networked computer such as a personal computer laptop netbook tablet workstation server PDA smartphone or other computing device with a web browser or other suitable software for interacting with the cloud service utilizing networked communication. Each POS terminal includes a graphical user interface GUI for data input into the database as well as display of information retrieved from the database such as on a monitor or via a printer device. The GUI allows input or selection of customer information and customer vehicle information. The input or selection means includes a physical or virtual keyboard a mouse a trackpad a trackball or other input or selection means commonly used in association with a menu or display system. Each of the POS terminals is located in a vehicle service center VSC . The POS terminals are specifically adapted by at least software to transact with a customer for purposes of completing a sale of services by the VSC preferably also receiving inputting customer information by a non technician described below employed by the VSC as received from the customer as well as carrying out other functions necessary or advantageous to the system described herein.

A VSC is a location adapted for on site vehicle repair. The VSC generally operates with one or more experienced automotive vehicle technicians capable of diagnosing and repairing a vehicle and preferably one or more non technician non technical employees to the extent that each is not tasked with diagnosing and or repairing vehicles who are tasked with interfacing with customers transacting initial service requests for the vehicles and transacting payment for service after repair on a vehicle has been effected. Optionally multiple POS terminals may be provided in a single VSC and most preferably multiple VSCs are coupled to the network with each VSC interfacing over the cloud service with the same database .

As indicated the cloud service includes a database that stores electronic information referred to herein as a data related to i customers ii vehicles and iii repair costs to repair vehicles. A cloud service application operating on a respective POS terminal can cooperate with the cloud service using networked communication to allow a user of the POS terminal to query the cloud service for data or to perform calculations based on data stored in the database or to input data into the database via the cloud service. As an alternative to a cloud service the logic service and database can be otherwise implemented over a wide area network in accord with any presently known or future implemented systems and methods. Further suitable software is preferably provided for locally interacting with local copies of databases similar to database discussed further below and logic in the event there is temporarily no access to the cloud service temporary Internet outage or in the event a VSC cannot be set up with suitable access to the cloud service on a regular basis e.g. the VSC does not have access to sufficient network bandwidth.

More specifically referring to the database includes customer data vehicle data and repair cost data . The customer data includes for each current customer of a VSC connected to the network the customer name address contact telephone number s optionally other identifying information including but not limited to customer ID for the VSC customer email addresses etc. as well as identification of the vehicles owned leased by the customer. The vehicles owned leased by the customer are identified by year make model and any other relevant identifying features such as license plate and or vehicle identification number VIN as well as a history of repairs performed to the vehicle at a VSC within the network of VSCs. In addition the mileage of the vehicle upon the prior repair service may be recorded with the vehicle data. However it is not necessary to store such current customer information in the database of the cloud service . Rather it may be stored in a database local to each VSC with such valuable customer data maintained and retained locally without identifying such information to other VSCs.

Vehicle type includes years makes models and optionally any other vehicle feature set that may be shared by a group of vehicles and further optionally any relevant information all of which may be valuable for identifying a customer vehicle with vehicle types that have previously been evaluated by all of the VSCs networked with the system.

Areas of a vehicle type include general locations front rear passenger side driver side dashboard systems and components etc. of a vehicle that are locations at which the customer or other non technician can readily identify same aspect of non optimal or malperformance of the vehicle. With respect to a location it can be the general or specific point of perceived origin of an unusual noise from the vehicle where the customer hears a whirring noise a whistling sound a grinding noise a scraping noise a rumbling noise etc. upon some occurrence or at all times the location of a warning light such as at the dashboard or other indicia of problem indicating repair or servicing is required. Such areas can also specifically identify major vehicular systems including the engine the transmission the exhaust etc. The areas also include more localized systems such as brakes which can be further localized to the front and back and left and right as well as the brake pedal. The areas further include components such as front or rear windshield. Another area can be the ignition. It is also appreciated that not all vehicle types have the same areas. A pickup truck will have a bed a passenger vehicle will not. Vehicles with dual exhaust may have an exhaust left and an exhaust right others will have a single exhaust. Particular vehicles may have wiper blades over the headlights most other do not. Therefore while it is appreciated that identified vehicle areas will be common to most vehicle types there may be vehicle areas that are specific to a limited group of vehicle types or one vehicle type. The important characteristic of an area is that it indicates a location on a vehicle that can be identified by a non technical individual and is perceived to be associated with the potential issue. The area can be general specific or identified by a combination of general and specific locations components or systems.

Symptoms for each of the areas in the data category of areas i.e. together issues that have been shown to require repair including replacement and or servicing are also identified and stored. By way of example for either the areas of the dashboard or the engine the check engine light may be indicated as the light will be indicated on the dashboard but indicates a problem with the engine similarly with the oil pressure gauge . By way of another example for the brakes the customer may indicate that a noise is heard at the front left wheel when stepping on the brake or that the vehicle is too slow to stop when stepping on the brake or that the brake peddle pushes too far down toward the floorboard. In yet another example the customer may indicate that the car does not consistently start when turning the key in the ignition or that the car does not start and he hears a clicking sound.

For each of the vehicle data categories of vehicle type areas and symptoms it is important that the categories be organized in the database in a manner that would allow a non technician to sort through the categories to identify for the customer i his her vehicle ii the area requiring repair and iii the symptom with the area i.e. the issue that caused the customer to identify his her vehicle as necessitating repair. In accord with a preferred aspect of the invention the GUI of the POS terminal is preferably configured as a hierarchical menu system to facilitate such identification. As described in more detail below a set of menus are presented that allows a non technician to initially and rapidly select the vehicle corresponding to the customer s vehicle. Menus are provided with each of the vehicle makes to cover all or substantially all of the vehicles of the intended customer base as well as a reasonable range of years corresponding to the year of vehicle production of such makes of vehicles from which to select. Once the make and year is selected a menu of the appropriate models of vehicles for that year is presented as well as any other menu to permit selection of the appropriate vehicle all corresponding to the data category of vehicle type 36 . It is appreciated that the menu system can be presented in a different order e.g. make model and then year and any order that facilitates preferably rapid selection of the appropriate vehicle is within the scope of the invention. Once the vehicle is selected an appropriate menu system is provided to assist the non technician to identify the problem areas within the vehicle corresponding to the data category of areas . Similarly once the problem area is selected an appropriate menu system is provided to assist the non technician to identify the symptom associated with the indicated problem area i.e. perceived issue corresponding to the data category of symptoms 40 . It is appreciated that any menu system or other manner of organizing and presenting such data to the non technician is within the scope of the invention provided that it allows the non technician to select an issue with an area of a vehicle that is believed by the customer as requiring some servicing. As an alternative to a structured menu system a natural language searching system using an artificial intelligence system that parses the symptomatic issue in relation to the vehicle area from the input natural language is also within the scope of the invention. Such a natural language searching system may be based on input written text and or spoken words. For purposes herein where a menu system is generally referenced it includes such a natural language searching system.

The historical resolutions data includes a data record corresponding to the repairs associated with all reported symptoms for each area of each vehicle type make model year etc. . Such resolution is referred to as a historical fix a historical repair or a historical resolution each having the same meaning.

The service logic is configured to perform several calculations with respect to the data in the database . First as the categorized vehicle data is traversed via the menu system to identify a vehicle matching the customer s vehicle same make model year etc. with each selection of criteria make model year etc. for the customer s vehicle the service logic maintains a running count of all vehicles having historical resolution data indicating that they have ever been serviced by the network of VSCs and which match the selected vehicle type. Thus at any time such running count can be called and output to the GUI of the POS terminal as further discussed below. Then the area data menu system is traversed with respect to the customer s vehicle to identify the associated problem area with the service logic identifying a count of all vehicles in the historical resolution data that have had service on such problem area. Then the symptom data menu system is traversed with respect to the customer s vehicle to identify the appropriate issue with the vehicle with the service logic identifying a count of all vehicles in the historical resolution data that have had service to repair such issue on the identified area of such type of vehicle.

Assuming different repairs have been performed on the vehicle type to correct the identified issue the logic service calculates for each such different repair a confidence level as to whether it is the appropriate repair for the vehicle type and for the customer s identified issue. The confidence level is calculated using the historical data using the same vehicle type as the customer s vehicle and the issue identified with respect to the customer s vehicle 

The confidence level can be calculated for each different repair that has historically been performed given the same vehicle type and the same issue. If the issue is historically associated with one and only one repair type then the confidence level will be 1 or 100 percent. If the issue has been associated with different repairs the confidence levels for all potential repairs is calculated with the summation of the all of the confidence levels in terms of percent summing to 1 or approximately thereof where rounding is performed . With the confidence level of each of the potential repairs calculated the potential repairs are preferably ranked in order of their respective confidence levels with the first ranking having the highest confidence level and the last ranking having the lowest confidence level. It is recognized that a larger number of matching vehicles which requires both vehicle type and same issue will indicate greater validity to the confidence level and thus in the ability to predict the required repair based on the calculated confidence level prior to having the vehicle evaluated by a technician. While a confidence level may be calculated for each different repair it is appreciated that such a confidence may only be calculated for the repairs until the summation of confidence levels add up to 0.8 or 80 so as to eliminate calculation of confidence level for repairs which are too few in number to be significant. In addition it is also appreciated that the confidence levels can be calculated for only a select number of potential repairs for a given issue e.g. up to a maximum of five different potential repairs regardless of the collective summation of the confidence levels thereof.

It is also recognized that other factors variables and or weightings can be considered in calculating the confidence level. By way of example it is appreciated that the current mileage of the customer vehicle may be a weighting factor such as to affect the confidence level and ranking of the potential repairs. As another factor prior repair history of the customer vehicle can also operate to affect confidence level and ranking. As yet another factor location of the customer vehicle based on e.g. zip code can be used as a weighting factor such as to affect the confidence level and ranking of potential repairs. This is potentially important where weather or geography can be a factor in the cause of an issue and be a signal of a potential repair. Other confidence levels or metrics including rankings associated with a confidence level can be calculated as well.

The confidence levels and rankings are communicated from the logic service to the bridge and through the network to the POS terminal . Thus the non technician is able to rapidly provide the customer potentially in under one minute an estimate of one or more potential repairs that could be required each with an indicated confidence level prior to any experienced technician connecting a diagnostic code reader to the vehicle s computer and analyzing the received diagnostic codes or placing the vehicle on a lift and physically examining the vehicle or taking the vehicle for a test drive etc.

In addition to the potential repairs indicated in responses to the input symptoms of the issues under the confidence levels the database stores data indicating whether additional problems have been historically associated in time and relation to the issue and their potential repairs. The data can be mined to identify whether additional repairs should be considered in association for certain symptoms even if such repairs are not specifically indicated to repair the issue associated with the potential repair designated by a confidence level. In this manner the customer can be apprised of future issues that may not be currently apparent but which are likely to occur and should potentially be corrected during the present repair visit at the VSC to prevent the vehicle from having a repeat visit to the VSC in the near term.

Once the potential repairs are identified the non technician can obtain an estimate for the costs to repair the vehicle. Generally it is anticipated that the potential repair having the highest confidence level will be selected for cost estimation. However any one or more of the potential repairs can be selected for cost estimation or all cost estimates can be prepared and presented on the POS terminal at once as shown and described with respect to discussed below. For each potential repair the repair cost data preferably includes global inputs and local input . Global inputs include an estimate of labor time to perform each of numerous standard repairs and the parts list to perform the repairs. Local inputs include hourly labor rates for repair at a particular VSC and the cost to source the parts to perform the repairs.

More specifically the repair cost data can include costs for parts of different quality . The term quality is not limited to characteristics that affect the useful life or performance of a part component or system but can also mean by way of example only whether a part is original equipment manufactured OEM generally most expensive an aftermarket replacement part or a reconditioned used part generally least expensive but potentially of limited availability all of which may be suitable for the repair and can have suitable useful life or performance for the repair. All such parts can be stored in the database. The system can provide options to the customer and or allow the customer to specify that a repair is only to be made with OEM parts or that a repair is to be made in the least costly manner possible.

In addition the system can store in the database and mine whether repair parts from a source brand and or vendor have relatively higher or lower reliability than parts from a different source i.e. a reliability rating. When vehicles are brought into the VSC for repair the source of the replaced parts and preferably the age of the replaced parts are stored at in the database to determine part reliability. Then when a customer brings a vehicle into the VSC the system can identify and optionally automatically select sources of parts which have historically had a higher reliability rating and or exclude sources of parts which have historically had a lower reliability rating. In addition the source of the selected parts used in the repair are also stored to ascertained their reliability or lack thereof. Thus it is appreciated that source data for parts of the replaced component as well as the parts used in the repair of the replaced components is collected stored and accessible by the system to individually and collectively provide repaired vehicles with greater reliability. The reliability data is dynamically updated with the ratings having increase validity as the system has greater use over greater time with more information provided to the reliability database in the system to be mined for such purposes.

The sourcing costs may account for different costs for some or certain parts when ordered by different VSCs . This may be due to different costs in different geographical or regional locations and also dependent upon the cost to transport the parts to the VSC taxes local inventories etc. and the sourcing costs in the database may be provided with and regularly updated to have a sufficiently current store of costs for the parts.

Also the system may be configured to apply hourly labor rates dependent upon the origination of the query from the POS terminal at the VSC . The local hourly labor rate may be designated on a per VSC basis on a group of VSCs i.e. those under common management or ownership on a regional basis i.e. a rate for VSC located in the Midwestern States the South the Mid Atlantic States New England States Southwestern States etc. by zip code by area code or in any other manner of applying rates that operates to the benefit of the VSCs in the system or the overall management of the system. Alternatively a single hourly rate may be applied globally by the system. Suitable database structure and links are provided for the respective arrangements of the global input data and local input data relative to the system.

The local inputs may be the same at each VSC i.e. there may be a common hourly rate across the system and the cost to source parts may be consistent at all VSCs in the system. The local input may be stored at the database may be stored in separate databases at a database storage device local to a VSC or provided from third party linked databases such as those maintained by a supplier for cost data . In one embodiment it is contemplated that each VSC stores a local database that is linked to the service logic responsible for calculating an estimate of the repair costs. In addition as an alternative to the database containing and determining the best source to obtain parts for a repair the local database may locally store the costs locally or nationally sourced parts and preferred sources for sourcing and or is in network communication to one or more parts sources to obtaining real time data on parts inventory and pricing. The local database may be coupled to the POS terminals as fixed or removable non transitory computer readable storage media such as magnetic computer disks CD ROM DVD ROM or other suitable computer readable and or re writable storage media to receive output from and provide input to one or more POS terminals and may be attached to a local or wide area network server servicing multiple POS terminals in one or more VSCs.

Once the time required and hourly rate are known from the inputs and the labor costs can be calculated as the product thereof. Once the parts required and the sourcing costs are known from inputs and the total parts costs can be calculated as the summation of the total costs for the respective parts. The repair can then be estimated as the summation of the labor costs and parts costs.

In addition notes can be stored called and advanced to the POS terminal that are linked to the customer vehicle including but not limited to prior repair history of the vehicle either in general or as directed to the area or symptoms service bulletins related to the vehicle in general or as directed to the area or symptoms or recall notices related to the vehicle in general or as directed to the area or symptoms. Such notes and services bulletins may also include geographic tags which link information related to local service issues in general or as directed to the area or symptom specifically. By way of example e.g. rust of certain fluid lines resulting from proximity to salt water for vehicles located in an ocean coastal region.

An identification of the potential repairs leading to resolution of the symptoms ranked in order as well as the estimate for repair of the one or more selected issues as well as any indicated notes can be provided to the customer e.g. via print out email or other transfer. It is anticipated that providing the customer with the initial pre evaluation estimate of both the potential repair s required as well as an estimate of the respective costs for repair of such potential repair s will remove an uncertainty from the customer that may otherwise prevent the customer from leaving the vehicle to have repairs performed. That is once the unknown of not knowing what the potential vehicle problem could be and its associated cost to repair is eliminated customers may be more likely to remain at the VSC for further vehicles evaluation. In addition the information can be generated and provided to the customer very quickly.

Referring now to the system is also configured to order and generated a work order from the POS terminal which can be sent to a technical terminal to provide the customer information vehicle type information area of problem symptoms and ranking of potential resolutions. In addition the POS terminal can designate in the work order a defined customer pick up time for the vehicle and any other relevant information.

In accord with another aspect of the system the database includes technician data . The technician data provides the data to calculate or a calculated efficiency level or score for preferably each service technician for each specific type of repair the technician performs. For purposes of the described system efficiency is defined as ability to complete an indicated repair within a least amount of time. The calculated efficiency level can be stored or it can be calculated as needed such as when a work order calling for a repair of a certain type is required. The repair type can be independent of vehicle year make or model e.g. brake repairs generally or dependent on such factors as vehicle year make model etc. brake repairs Mercedes all S class vehicles years 2010 2013 . Based on the calculated or stored efficiency level the technician that is most efficient for the potential repair with the highest confidence level is assigned to the work order assuming such technician is available. If the most efficient technician is not available then the most efficient and available technician is assigned to perform the work under the work order. If after diagnostics are performed it is determined that the required repair is one having associated with a lower confidence level the technician may be maintained or it is possible to reassign the work to a new technician having a higher efficiency level for the diagnosed issue. The time to perform a repair is tracked and recorded by the system and associated with the technician performing the repair. Such tracking may be automatic in which the technician indicates start and stop times of each repair with the system calculating the time differential or the technician may manually input the time he spent completing the repair.

Once the vehicle is assigned to the technician evaluated and diagnosed i.e. with the technician determining the actual problem and the actual resolution required the repair is performed and the historical repair data is updated. When the historical repair data is updated the vehicle type data make model year etc. reported symptom the specified area of the vehicle as well as the repair actually performed are written to the database in a correlated manner. Such historical repair data is dynamic and automatically modified by the POS terminal or technical terminal as each repair to a vehicle is reported or preferably automatically on another regular basis such as nightly weekly monthly etc. . It is also preferred that a copy of such regularly updated database is stored locally in the event the system is run in an offline mode i.e. without communication through the cloud service. The updated historical repair data is used to modify subsequently calculated confidence levels for the various potential repairs to a like vehicle type with a similarly reported issue. Thus the accuracy of the confidence levels increases as more repair data is added to the database. This move toward higher accuracy all occurs automatically in the background with each repair. In addition the historical data is linked to the customer s vehicle to facilitate generation of a vehicle repair history for all vehicles in the database . Additionally or alternatively the historical repair data can be provided as or supplemented by third party data having historical repair data which is preferably provided with regular updates. Additionally or alternatively the historical repair data can be output to a third party for use in a separate vehicle diagnostic solution. Similarly relevant data regarding the parts replaced by source and or brand and parts used in the repair by source and or brand are written to the parts reliability database . Also the technician database is updated to record the time required for the technician to complete the repair. The POS terminal is configured to perform invoicing for the work that is to be performed e.g. including deposits or initial diagnostic fees or work that was performed interface with payment systems including credit card charge systems and provide receipt for payment received all in accord with known POS terminal operations.

Referring to in accord with another aspect of the system which is intended to be used in association with the above described aspects of the system the system is accessible by a non technician offsite of a VSC. It is contemplated that the offsite non technician is a customer potential customer other vehicle owner or inquirer or any other person or system accessing the database offsite from the VSC hereinafter a customer . In most circumstances where the customer as defined is a non employee it is intended that the customer will have access to a limited portion of the database and logic service relative to that accessible at a POS terminal via a non POS terminal . However it is possible that the offsite access may be made by an employee and that full access to the system previously disclosed will be enabled e.g. via secure or non secure log in.

The non POS terminal includes any other terminal or mobile computing device including a notebook computer a tablet and or mobile telephone capable of having a suitable user interface to interface a portion of the system logic to query a portion of the database over the telecommunications network such as the Internet or a virtual private network VPN . The limited portion of the database allows the terminal to conduct queries to calculate a pre evaluation estimation of the problems and potentially required repairs for a customer s vehicle preferably including confidence levels of such potentially required repairs and a ranking of the potential repairs in order of the calculated confidence levels all in accord with the above. In addition the system optionally may provide an estimation of cost one or more of the ranked potential repairs all in accord with the above. Then the system can direct the customer to a nearest or suitable VSC for vehicle repair. In order to so direct the customer the system includes or accesses a process to geo locate the customer s non POS terminal or by customer input and lookup of location relevant data such as reference to a customer input zip code for a VSC nearest to where the customer has requested servicing. Further the location of the customer allows presentation of regional notes and or optional weighted calculation of the confidence levels in view of issues relevant to the customer s location. The system is then able to identify for the customer one or more closest VSCs having network access to the system. The system preferably allows the customer to input and or indicates to the customer the radial distance or travel distance about the customer at which the VSCs are identified e.g. 10 miles 25 miles 50 miles. This can be performed in conjunction with geo location of the VSCs and available mapping APIs. The system also includes suitable logic and database structure capable of making an appointment for the customer at a selected one of the VSCs to have the customer s vehicle repaired at an appointed date and or time.

While the system has been primarily described with respect to a system having multiple VSCs it is appreciated that it can be implemented in a system with a single VSC and the POS terminals in the VSC may include one or more local processors and associated local memory LAN side to execute instructions and manipulate information logic services according to the operations described herein for pre evaluative vehicle diagnostic estimation and repair cost estimation in accord with the system thereby eliminating the WAN network operations.

A method of using the system of the invention is now described in association with the flowchart of and an embodiment of a GUI for a POS terminal at least partially illustrated in . A customer brings a vehicle for repair to the VSC and approaches the POS terminal . The employee generally a non technician at the VSC enters identifying information for the customer into the POS terminal at step as partially shown at a screen of the GUI. If the customer is a prior customer of the VSC or another VSC linked to the VSC at which the customer is located such as by co ownership or franchise sufficient information is entered to select the customer s existing record in the database. As the customer information is entered or once it is entered and the NEXT button is selected at step the database is queried for matching records and assuming the customer is an existing customer the matching database record linked to or containing the customer s information is selected. If the customer is a new customer a new database record is created for the customer.

Referring to assuming the customer is a prior customer preferably at least a portion of the personal information e.g. contact information linked to the customer in the database is displayed at on the GUI. The employee is provided with the option at to update the information if necessary. In addition it is determined whether the customer is already linked to any vehicles at step and if so the one or more vehicles linked to the customer are displayed on the GUI at . If the vehicle requiring repair is one of vehicles displayed at step the vehicle can be selected at step .

When the vehicle is selected at step the system then determines how many other of the same type of vehicle as the selected vehicle same year make model and optionally same engine and optionally same transmission are in the database at step . This vehicle count is preferably displayed on the GUI at step to the employee to provide an indication of the how many like vehicle are in the database.

If the vehicle is not linked with the customer in the database the vehicle must first be added to the customer record in the database . A new vehicle can be added starting with the selection of ADD NEW VEHICLE button and now in reference to steps through in and . The employee queries the customer at step to identify the characteristics of the customer s vehicle. For example at least the YEAR at step MAKE at step and MODEL at step are queried and the GUI provides a menu system to facilitate such query and selection shown at YEAR MAKE and MODEL . Preferably though optionally the ENGINE type can be queried at step and entered or selected from the menu system at step . Yet another preferred though optional query includes the TRANSMISSION type also generally indicated at step and shown on menu at which can be entered or selected. Other options can be queried and entered or selected from preferably predefined selections. While the order of query for the YEAR MAKE and MODEL can be modified after the selection of each it is preferred that the system access the database at step and update the vehicle count at step for the vehicles that match the presently selected vehicle type characteristics YEAR MAKE MODEL ENGINE TRANSMISSION etc. and that the vehicle count be displayed at step on the GUI as shown at .

It is preferred that the only options available for query and selections are those that meet the criteria of all other characteristics of the vehicle type already selected. That is by way of example once the YEAR MAKE and MODEL are selected are engine types for the vehicles types having the other matching characteristics are available for selection.

Once all the vehicle type characteristics have been selected at step the vehicle is linked to the customer s record in the database at step e.g. by selecting a NEXT or ENTER button .

Turning now to and generally with reference to steps through of once the vehicle is selected at either or the employee queries the customer at step with respect to the issue he is having with the vehicle. For such purpose the GUI at step presents a menu at with categories of areas in a vehicle which may be specific to the selected vehicle type for the customer to indicate as the location and general issue of the problem. The customer relates the area and the area is selected on the menu at step . Once the area is selected at the database is accessed to identify and update at the vehicle count of vehicles in the database that were previously brought in for repair or resolution for the same trouble area on the same vehicle type as the customer s vehicle. Identifying the problem area or a problem area and a general issue may require one or more queries. The corresponding vehicle count is also provided for display at step after the one or more queries as shown at on the GUI.

After the area and optionally general issue are identified the customer may again be queried at step with the GUI menu presenting menu selections to specifically identify the symptom at . The symptom is selected at step . The database is preferably again accessed at step to identify and update at step the vehicle count of vehicles in the database that were previously brought in for repair or resolution for the same symptom to the trouble area s . The corresponding updated vehicle count is provided for display also at step as shown at .

Then based on the historical repair data associated with the vehicles comprising the vehicle count the system identifies at step all of the repairs that have been performed on vehicles with like issues within the vehicle count. Based upon the historical repairs the confidence level of each such repair as a potential repair for the customer vehicle is calculated at step and then the potential repairs are ranked at step in order of the confidence level from greatest confidence to lowest confidence. A summary page for the customer s vehicle requiring repair is presented as . The customer s vehicle type is indicated at . The general area for repair is identified at the specific area is identified at and the symptom needing repair is identified at . All of the historical fixes are displayed indicating their respective rank and confidence level . In addition for a vehicle that was previously linked to the customer as determined back at steps and any notes associated with vehicle s prior repair history are provided for display at step and shown at . Also any other notes or notices associated with the vehicle type in general are displayed or with respect to the identified issue specifically such as Vehicle Service Bulletins from the manufacturer indicated at or Recall Notices from the Department of Transportation indicated at . From this display of information or at least a subset thereof it can be indicated to the customer the most likely repair for the vehicle that having the highest confidence level and the highest rank .

In addition along with displaying the various potential repairs the system calculates at steps and an estimated cost for each of the repairs. It is possible to calculate and or display each of the repairs at once for display at the same time as shown in or to calculate each respective potential repair on selection as indicated at step . It is recognized that calculating all repairs provides the information all at once but is more processor intensive to the system whereas calculating the repair costs only on selection will provide a decreased amount of information initially but allow the system to run leaner with decreased demand on processing resources. Once the repair costs are calculated they are provided at for display as shown at .

The top ranked repair may not eventually be the correct repair for the customer s vehicle it is recognized that a diagnostic or other physical evaluation may be necessary to determine the actual cause of the problem to the vehicle. Nevertheless the information provided by the system both in terms of the potential causes of the issue as well as the range of the costs for the repairs is anticipated to be valuable knowledge for the customer to have prior to making a decision as to whether to leave their vehicle with a VSC for physical evaluation. It allows non technical employees to gather non technical information that can be gathered without evaluating the vehicle and provide to the customer knowledge that they would not otherwise have including estimates of what is the problem including several potential problems and what the repair costs are for each. Further as the database is developed the results of the ranking will have greater probability of being the correct result for each vehicle under evaluation for repair.

Referring now to and assuming the vehicle is subsequently left for repair at the VSC a work order can be ordered and generated at from the POS terminal and sent to the technical terminal . The work order can indicate all relevant customer information vehicle type information the identified area of the problem the indicated symptoms and the calculated ranking of potential resolutions.

The vehicle is taken up for evaluation and diagnostics at with the technician determining the actual problem and the actual resolution required. Once the problem with the vehicle is diagnosed the repair is effected at . If the intended repair is determined to be different than that initially indicated to the customer at the estimate the customer can be contacted for prior approval. Once the repair is complete and a determination has been made as to the actual repair required to resolve the issue with the customer s vehicle the historical repair data is updated at to indicate that for the vehicle type data make model year etc. with the reported symptom to the specified area what repair was actually performed. The part reliability database is also updated at to store the source and or brand of the parts replaced and installed. And the technician database is updated at to store the time required for the technician to perform the repair and a calculation is or can be later performed to update the technician s efficiency with respect to the type of repair performed. An invoice for the actual work performed is also prepared at .

The flow chart and menu operates similar for a customer operating outside the VSC and who may access the VSC from e.g. a web site. Vehicle information is entered or an account can be established and vehicle data stored and selected. Then in the same manner the area both general and specific can be identified and the symptom is selected. Potential and optionally ranked repairs are provided by the system to the customer. It is not necessary that all of the same information be provided. For example the rank or confidence level may or may not be provided to the customer. Also the estimate cost data may be provided or not provided. The system operates as a lead generator which directs the customer to a VSC to have a vehicle diagnostic evaluation and repairs performed. The customer is provided with the location of a VSC. Such location can be based on geolocation of the customer based on the device used to access the web site. For example the web site can be accessed on a mobile phone tablet desktop or laptop computer. The customer can pre register for an appointment on a particular date at a particular time. The customer can reserve a shuttle service provide by the VSC. Other options may be made available and are within the scope of the invention.

There have been described and illustrated herein several embodiments of methods for estimation of a vehicle repair prior to diagnostic or technician evaluation of the vehicle and estimation of the costs for such repair prior to diagnostic or technician evaluation and systems for carrying out the same. While particular embodiments of the invention have been described it is not intended that the invention be limited thereto as it is intended that the invention be as broad in scope as the art will allow and that the specification be read likewise. It will therefore be appreciated by those skilled in the art that yet other modifications could be made to the provided invention without deviating from its scope as claimed.

