---

title: Semiconductor storage device
abstract: A semiconductor storage device according to the present embodiment includes a memory cell array including a plurality of memory cells. First bit lines transmit read signal voltages from the memory cells. A gate of a first transistor is connected to the first bit lines. A second bit line is connected to one of a drain and a source of the first transistor. A step voltage line is connected to the other one of the drain and the source of the first transistor to apply a step voltage changing in a stepwise manner to the first transistor at a time of reading. A reference-voltage generator generates a reference voltage. A sense part is connected to the second bit line to receive the read signal voltages and the reference voltage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09230618&OS=09230618&RS=09230618
owner: KABUSHIKI KAISHA TOSHIBA
number: 09230618
owner_city: Minato-ku
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140910
---
This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from the prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 948 862 filed on Mar. 6 2014 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Semiconductor storage devices such as a NAND flash memory have been downscaled to increase storage capacities. To realize further downscaling development of memories using new materials is progressed. For example new memories such as a ReRAM Resistance Random Access Memory a PRAM Phase Change RAM or a PCM Phase Change Memory an iPCM interfacial PCM a FeRAM Ferroelectric Random Access Memory a FeNAND Ferroelectric NAND type memory and an MRAM Magnetic Random Access Memory have been developed.

As downscaling of these new memories has been progressed variations in characteristics of elements and characteristics of transistors have become large. For example variations in characteristics of memory elements and variations in threshold voltages of transistors included in a sense amplifier circuit cause erroneous data read. For example there has been a demand for a circuit configuration that causes no erroneous read even when variations of pair transistors included in a sense amplifier are likely to occur.

Embodiments will now be explained with reference to the accompanying drawings. The present invention is not limited to the embodiments.

A semiconductor storage device according to the present embodiment includes a memory cell array including a plurality of memory cells. First bit lines transmit read signal voltages from the memory cells. A gate of a first transistor is connected to the first bit lines. A second bit line is connected to one of a drain and a source of the first transistor. A step voltage line is connected to the other one of the drain and the source of the first transistor to apply a step voltage changing in a stepwise manner to the first transistor at a time of reading. A reference voltage generator generates a reference voltage. A sense part is connected to the second bit line to receive the read signal voltages and the reference voltage.

Embodiments of the present invention are applicable to any of current detection memories such as a ReRAM a PRAM or a PCM an iPCM a FeNAND and an MRAM.

The memory cell array MCA includes a plurality of memory cells MC two dimensionally arranged in a matrix. The row decoder RD and the word line driver WLD selectively step up a voltage of one of word lines of the memory cell array MCA and drive the selected word line.

The column decoder CD and the page buffer PB read data of a memory cell MC via a selected bit line or bit line pair and temporarily store therein the read data. The column decoder CD and the page buffer PB temporarily store therein write data and write the stored write data to a memory cell MC via a selected bit line or bit line pair. The page buffer PB includes a sense amplifier circuit and a data retention circuit and performs read and write of data in units of pages of the memory cell array MCA. The column decoder CD transfers the read data stored in the page buffer PB to the I O buffer I O BUF with respect to each column. The column decoder CD transfers the write data transferred from the I O buffer I O BUF to the page buffer PB with respect to each column.

The row address register RA REG receives a row address signal via the I O buffer I O BUF and holds the row address signal therein. The column address register CA REG receives a column address signal via the I O buffer I O BUF and holds the column address signal therein. The row address register RA REG and the column address register CA REG transfer the row address signal and the column address signal hereinafter also address signal Add to the row decoder RD and the column decoder CD respectively.

Based on a control signal hereinafter also command Com such as a chip enable signal a command enable signal an address latch enable signal a write enable signal or a read enable signal the logic controller LC controls input of the command Com or the address signal Add and also controls input output of data Data read data or write data . A read operation or a write operation is performed according to the command Com. Upon reception of the command Com the sequence controller SC executes a sequence control on read write or erase.

The internal voltage generation circuit VG is controlled by the sequence controller SC and generates supplies predetermined voltages required for various operations. At this time a control to determine an order in which internal power supplies are activated when an external power supply is activated and an order in which the internal power supplies are deactivated when the external power supply is deactivated is important.

The I O buffer I O BUF outputs the read data from the column decoder CD to outside or transfers the write data from outside to the column decoder CD. The I O buffer I O BUF receives the command Com and the address signal Add.

A plurality of memory cells MC are connected in series to form one of memory string MS. One ends of the memory strings MS are connected to a local bit line LBL or LBL via select transistors Tswl to Tswl. The other ends of the memory strings MS are connected to plate lines PL and PL respectively. The memory strings MS are connected to local word lines LWL and can be selectively connected to the local bit line LBL or LBL.

The local bit lines LBL and LBL serving as first bit lines are connected to a node Nrw via transistors Tgwl and Tgwl respectively. The transistors Tgwl and Tgwl are controlled by signals from global word lines GWL and GWL and can selectively connect the local bit lines LBL and LBL to the node Nrw respectively. The local bit lines LBL and LBL are connected to a low voltage source VSS supplying a ground potential for example via transistors Trst and Trst respectively. The transistors Trst and Trst serving as first and second precharge transistors are controlled by signals from reset lines RESET and REST and can selectively connect the local bit lines LBL and LBL to the low voltage source VSS respectively.

The node Nrw is connected to a gate of an N read transistor first transistor TRr. A drain of the read transistor TRr is connected to global bit lines GBL serving as second bit lines. A source of the read transistor TRr is connected to a step voltage line RS. When a threshold voltage of the read transistor TRr is Vth the read transistor TRr is turned on when a voltage between the gate and the source exceeds Vth. That is the read transistor TRr is turned on when a voltage of the step voltage line RS becomes lower than a voltage Vnrw Vth obtained by subtracting Vth from a voltage read signal voltage Vnrw of the node Nrw.

When the read transistor TRr is a P transistor the drain of the read transistor TRr is connected to the global bit lines GBL and the source of the read transistor TRr is connected to the step voltage line RS. When the threshold voltage of the read transistor TRr is Vth the read transistor TRr is turned on when a voltage of the step voltage line RS becomes higher than a voltage obtained by adding the absolute value of Vth to a voltage read signal voltage of the node Nrw.

The global bit lines GBL are connected to a sense amplifier circuit SA. The global bit lines GBL are connected to a power supply VDD via a transistor Trst. When the precharge transistor Trstconnects the power supply VDD to the global bit lines GBL the global bit lines GBL are precharged to a voltage VDD.

In the read operation the voltage of the step voltage line RS is lowered from VDD in a stepwise manner. When the read transistor TRr is turned on charges from selected one of the global bit lines GBL precharged to the voltage VDD flow to the step voltage line RS. A timing or the step voltage line RS at a timing when the read transistor TRr is turned on depends on the voltage read signal voltage of the node Nrw. The timing or the step voltage line RS at a timing when the read transistor TRr is turned on can be known by the sense amplifier circuit SA detecting the voltage of the global bit line GBL and storing the detected voltage therein each time the voltage of the step voltage line RS is changed. Detailed configurations and operations of the sense amplifier circuit SA are explained later.

The node Nrw is also connected to a write transistor TRw. The write transistor TRw is turned on to transmit a write signal to the node Nrw at the time of data write. The write operation includes not only write of data from outside but also rewrite of a read signal having once been read.

A reference voltage generation circuit VrefG is connected to the local bit lines LBL and LBL and generates a reference voltage Vref to transmit the reference voltage Vref to the local bit lines LBL and LBL. The reference voltage Vref is a medium voltage between a read signal voltage from memory cells MC that store therein data 0 hereinafter also 0 cells and a read signal voltage from memory cells MC that store therein data 1 hereinafter also 1 cells . The configuration of the reference voltage generation circuit VrefG is not particularly limited as long as the reference voltage Vref can be generated.

The number of the local bit lines connected to the node Nrw the number of the memory strings MS connected to each of the local bit lines and the number of the memory cells MC connected to each of the memory strings MS are not limited. A plurality of sets each including the memory cell array MCA the reference voltage generation circuit VrefG the transistors Tgwl and Tgwl and the transistors Trst and Trst can be connected in common to the node Nrw. In this case the sets are not selected at the same time but are selected in different timings respectively.

The first register part REG includes latch circuits F Fref to F Fref and select switches SWref to SWref. The latch circuits F Fref to F Fref are connected to the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP via the select switches SWref to SWref respectively.

The select switches SWref to SWref are controlled by counter signals Countref to Countref and inversion signals thereof Countref to Countref respectively. The latch circuits F Fref to F Fref are controlled by counter signals Countrefto Countrefand inversion signals thereof Countrefto Countref respectively.

For example to select the latch circuit F Fref the counter signal Countref is pulse driven to logic high and then to logic low and the counter signal Countrefis then set to logic high. The inversion signals Countref and Countrefhave the opposite logic respectively. Accordingly the select switch SWref is brought to a conduction state whereby the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP is connected to the latch circuit F Fref via the select switch SWref and is latched. In this way the latch circuit F Fref can store a logical value of the output OPOUT therein. Operations of other latch circuits F Fref to F Fref can be readily understood from the operations of the latch circuit F Fref and thus explanations thereof will be omitted.

The second register part REG includes latch circuits F Fcell to F Fcell and select switches SWcell to SWcell. The latch circuits F Fcell to F Fcell are connected to the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP via the select switches SWcell to SWcell respectively.

The select switches SWcell to SWcell are controlled by counter signals Countcell to Countcell and inversion signals thereof Countcell to Countcell respectively. The latch circuits F Fcell to F Fcell are controlled by counter signals Countcellto Countcelland inversion signals thereof Countcellto Countcell respectively. Operations of the latch circuits F Fcell to F Fcell can be readily understood from the operations of the latch circuit F Fref and thus explanations thereof will be omitted.

Logical values held in the latch circuits F Fref to F Fref are output from nodes R to R respectively. Logical values held in the latch circuits F Fcell to F Fcell are output from nodes C to C respectively.

The AND gate Gand serving as a second logic part receives the signals RC to RC as inputs and outputs a result of an AND operation thereof as read data Dr.

When the signal of a node Rx x is an integer from 0 to 7 is logic low and the signal of a node Cx is logic high the signal RCx becomes logic low. In this case the AND gate Gand outputs logic low. That is when there is at least one combination of signal of node Rx signal of node Cx logic low logic high the read data Dr of the AND gate Gand becomes logic low. In other cases that is when all of signal of node Rx signal of node Cx are any of logic high logic low logic low logic low and logic high logic high the signal RCx becomes logic high and thus the read data Dr of the AND gate Gand becomes logic high.

The combination of signal of node Rx signal of node Cx logic low logic high occurs when a read signal of the reference voltage has a high logic value and a read signal of a memory cell has a low logic value as explained with reference to . The number of the latch circuits the number of the NAND gates that is the number of bits and the like in the above configuration of the sense amplifier circuit SA are not particularly limited.

First the reference voltage Vref is read from the reference voltage generation circuit VrefG shown in to the node Nrw via a selected local bit line LBL. The reference voltage Vref is a medium potential between the voltage of the data 0 and the voltage of the data 1 . The read transistor TRr receives the reference voltage Vref at the gate. The corresponding global bit line GBL and the local bit line LBL are precharged.

Next the voltage of the step voltage line RS is lowered from the high level voltage VDD to Vrs in a stepwise manner as shown in . The number of steps and potential differences between adjacent steps can be arbitrarily set. In synchronization with lowering in the voltage of the step voltage line RS the counter signals Countref to Countref are driven in turn to high and then to low and the counter signals Countrefto Countrefare then raised in turn.

For example at a time t the voltage of the step voltage line RS is set to Vrs. At that time the counter signal Countref is driven to logic high and then to logic low and the counter signal Countrefis then raised. This brings the select switch SWref shown in to a conduction state for a predetermined period and after switch off the latch circuit F Fref latches the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP.

The counter signal Countrefthen keeps logic high and the latch circuit F Fref continues to latch the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP of that time.

Subsequently at a time t the voltage of the step voltage line RS is lowered to Vrs. At that time the counter signal Countref is driven to logic high and then to logic low and the counter signal Countrefis then raised. This brings the select switch SWref in to a conduction state for a predetermined period and the latch circuit F Fref latches the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP after switch off.

The counter signal Countrefthen keeps logic high and the latch circuit F Fref continues to latch the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP of that time.

At times t to t the latch circuits F Fref to F Fref similarly operate in turn. Accordingly the latch circuits F Fref to F Fref latch the outputs OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP of times when the voltage of the step voltage line RS is set to Vrs to Vrs respectively. In this way the latch circuits F Fref to F Fref store therein the outputs OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP respectively in time series.

When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is lowered gradually as shown in there is a stage where the voltage of the step voltage line RS becomes lower than a voltage Vref Vth obtained by subtracting Vth from the reference voltage Vref at the node Nrw. That is when the voltage of the step voltage line RS is lowered gradually there is a stage where the potential difference between the gate and the source of the read transistor TRr becomes equal to or higher than Vth. At that stage the read transistor TRr is turned on and the voltage of the precharged global bit line GBL is lowered from the high level voltage VDD. Because the voltage of the global bit line GBL thus becomes lower than the detection reference voltage Vrefsense the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP in becomes logic low.

For example it is assumed that the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP becomes logic low at a stage t where the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs. In this case the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP is logic high during the times from t to t and the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP is logic low at the time t and thereafter. Therefore the latch circuits F Fref to F Fref of the first register part REG latch logic high and the latch circuits F Fref to F Fref latch logic low. That is the potentials of the nodes R to R indicate logic high and the potentials of the nodes R to R indicate logic low.

In this way as the counter advances the voltage of the step voltage line RS lowers and at the times of lowering the outputs OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP are latched by the latch circuits F Fref to F Fref respectively. In the beginning when the voltage of the step voltage line RS is high the read transistor TRr is in an off state and the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP keeps logic high. However as lowering in the voltage of the step voltage line RS progresses the read transistor TRr is brought to an on state at a point in time. Charges of the global bit line GBL are extracted at that point in time and then the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP becomes logic low. Therefore the latch circuit F Fref to a certain latch circuit latch logic high and the next latch circuit to the last latch circuit F Fref latch logic low. In this way read of the reference voltage Vref is completed.

Next the voltage of the step voltage line RS is lowered from the high level voltage VDD to Vrs in a stepwise manner as shown in . The number of steps and potential differences between adjacent steps are the same as those shown in . In synchronization with lowering in the voltage of the step voltage line RS the counter signals Countcell to Countcell are pulse driven from low to high and then to low and the counter signals Countcellto Countcellare then raised respectively.

For example at a time t the voltage of the step voltage line RS is set to Vrs. At that time the counter signal Countcell is driven from logic low to logic high and then to logic low and the counter signal Countcellis then raised. This brings the select switch SWcell in to a conduction state for a certain period whereby the latch circuit F Fcell latches the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP after switch off.

The counter signal Countcellthen keeps logic high and the latch circuit F Fcell continues to latch the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP of that time.

Subsequently at a time t the voltage of the step voltage line RS is lowered to Vrs. At that time the counter signal Countcell is pulse driven from logic low to logic high and then to logic low and the counter signal Countcellis then raised. This brings the select switch SWcell in to a conduction state for a certain period whereby the latch circuit F Fcell latches the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP after switch off.

The counter signal Countcellthen keeps logic high and the latch circuit F Fcell continues to latch the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP of that time.

At times t to t the latch circuits F Fcell to F Fcell similarly operate in turn. Accordingly the latch circuits F Fcell to F Fcell latch the outputs OPOUT of the operation amplifier AMP of times when the voltage of the step voltage line RS is set to Vrs to Vrs respectively. The latch circuits F Fcell to F Fcell thus store therein the outputs OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP respectively in time series.

When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is lowered gradually as shown in there is a stage where the voltage of the step voltage line RS becomes lower than a voltage Vcell Vth obtained by subtracting Vth from the read signal voltage Vcell at the node Nrw. That is there is a stage where a potential difference between the gate and the source of the read transistor TRr becomes equal to or larger than Vth when the voltage of the step voltage line RS is lowered gradually. At that stage the read transistor TRr is turned on and the voltage of the precharged global bit line GBL is lowered from the high level voltage VDD. Accordingly the voltage of the global bit line GBL becomes lower than the detection reference voltage Vrefsense and thus the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP in becomes logic low.

For example when a selected memory cell has the data 0 the read signal voltage Vcell is lower than the reference voltage Vref. Therefore during read of the read signal voltage Vcell the read transistor TRr is not turned on until the voltage of the step voltage line RS becomes relatively low. It is assumed for example that the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP becomes logic low at a stage t where the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs. In this case the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP is logic high at the times from t to t and the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP is logic low at the time t and thereafter. Therefore the latch circuits F Fcell to F Fcell in the second register part REG latch logic high and the latch circuits F Fcell and F Fcell latch logic low. That is the potentials of the nodes C to C indicate logic high and the potentials of the nodes C and C indicate logic low.

On the other hand for example when a selected memory cell has the data 1 the read signal voltage Vcell is higher than the reference voltage Vref. Therefore during read of the read signal voltage Vcell the read transistor TRr is turned on when the voltage of the step voltage line RS is relatively high. It is assumed for example that the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP becomes logic low at a stage t where the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs. In this case the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP keeps logic high at the time t and the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP keeps logic low at the time t and thereafter. Therefore the latch circuit F Fcell in the second register part REG latches logic high and the latch circuits F Fcell to F Fcell latch logic low. That is the potential of the node C indicates logic high and the potentials of the nodes C to C indicate logic low. In this way the read of the read signal voltage Vcell of the selected memory cell MC is completed.

The nodes R to R of the first register part REG and the nodes C to C of the second register part REG are compared with each other with respect to each potential of the step voltage line RS. For example as described above when a selected memory cell has the data 0 R C is logic high logic high when the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vres. When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs R C is logic high logic high . When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs R C is logic high logic high . When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs R C is logic low logic high . When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs R C is logic low logic high . When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs R C is logic low logic high . When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs R C is logic low logic low . When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs R C is logic low logic low . Among these combinations there are combinations in which Rx Cx is logic low logic high . Therefore the read data Dr of the AND gate Gand becomes logic low.

Meanwhile the nodes R to R of the first register part REG and the nodes C to C of the second register part REG are compared with each other with respect to each potential of the step voltage line RS in the case where a selected memory cell has the data 1 for example as described above. When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs R C is logic high logic high . When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs R C is logic high logic low . When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs R C is logic high logic low . When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs R C is logic low logic low . When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs R C is logic low logic low . When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs R C is logic low logic low . When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs R C is logic low logic low . When the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs R C is logic low logic low . Among these combinations there is no combination in which Rx Cx is logic low logic high . Therefore the read data Dr of the AND gate Gand becomes logic high.

In this way the sense simplifier circuit SA according to the first embodiment can detect the data 0 and the data 1 .

As described above the reference voltage Vref is set higher than the read operation voltage for the data 0 . Therefore when the reference voltage Vref is read to the gate of the read transistor TRr in a case where the step voltage line RS is at a certain voltage the read transistor TRr is turned on whereby charges of the global bit line GBL are extracted and thus the output OPOUT becomes logic low. On the other hand when the read operation voltage for the data 0 is read from a selected memory cell MC to the gate of the read transistor TRr in a case where the step voltage line RS is at the same voltage the read transistor TRr keeps the off state whereby charges of the global bit line GBL are not extracted and thus the output OPOUT remains logic high. As a result there is a case where Rx Cx is logic low logic high and accordingly the read data Dr of the AND gate Gand becomes logic low.

The reference voltage Vref is set lower than the read operation voltage for the data 1 . Accordingly when the read operation voltage for the data 1 is read from a selected memory cell MC to the gate of the read transistor TRr in a case where the step voltage line RS is at the same voltage the read transistor TRr becomes the on state whereby charges of the global bit line GBL are extracted and thus the output OPOUT becomes logic low. As a result there is no case where Rx Cx is logic low logic high and accordingly the read data Dr of the AND gate Gand becomes logic high. In this way the sense amplifier circuit SA according to the first embodiment can detect the data 0 and the data 1 .

In this case the read data Dr in is input to the write transistor TRw in as the write data Dw. A selected global bit line GBL and a selected signal line SWL are logic high and a signal RESET is logic low.

Next when a write signal WT becomes logic high and an inversion signal thereof WT becomes logic low in a period Twrite shown in the write transistor TRw in is turned on whereby the read data Dr is transmitted as the write data Dw to the node Nrw.

In the period Twrite the corresponding plate line PL is changed from logic high to logic low. A selected local word line LWL is then changed from logic low to logic high. Accordingly a potential difference between the node Nrw and the plate line PL is applied to the selected memory cell MC whereby the read data Dr is rewritten to the selected memory cell MC. Unselected local word lines LWL keep logic high.

When data a write signal voltage from outside is to be written it suffices that external data received from an input output circuit is input to the write transistor TRw as the write data Dw.

According to the first embodiment the reference voltage and the read signal voltage are input to the gate of the common read transistor TRr and are detected via a common global bit line GBL. That is the reference voltage and the read signal voltage are amplified by a common single read transistor TRr. Therefore the memory according to the first embodiment can read data accurately even when variations in the characteristics of pair transistors that constitute the sense amplifier circuit SA or the like are increased due to downscaling.

When the read transistor TRr is a P transistor it suffices to gradually increase the voltage of the step voltage line RS. Assuming that the threshold voltage of the read transistor TRr is Vth the read transistor TRr is turned on when the voltage of the step voltage line RS becomes higher than a voltage obtained by adding the absolute value of Vth to the voltage the read signal voltage of the node Nrw. Other operations of the sense amplifier circuit SA are identical to those in the case where the read transistor TRr is an N transistor. Therefore even when the read transistor TRr is a P transistor the memory according to the first embodiment can achieve functions and effects identical to those of the case where the read transistor TRr is an N transistor.

Reference word lines RWL are first raised for a certain period in the reference voltage generation circuit VrefG in to extract charges from the local bit lines LBL. In this case resistors in the reference voltage generation circuit VrefG are set at a medium value between a resistance of the 1 state and a resistance of the 0 state of memory cells MC in the memory cell array MCA. Therefore when the signal RWL is raised for a certain period the charges are extracted from the local bit lines LBL and the potential has a medium value between a value in a case where high resistance memory cells in the 1 state are brought to conduction and charges are extracted therefrom and a value in a case where low resistance memory cells in the 0 state are brought conduction and charges are extracted therefrom.

The read transistor TRr receives the reference voltage Vref generated in this way at the gate. The corresponding global bit line GBL and the local bit line LBL are precharged each time the potential of the step voltage line RS is changed. In the embodiment the precharge operation is performed at each time the potential of the step voltage line RS is changed. However only an initial precharge operation may be performed initially in a generation operation of the Vref because completion of the generation operation can be detected at the time when extracting charges from the local bit lines LBL after the initial precharge operation.

The voltage of the step voltage line RS is lowered from the high level voltage VDD to Vrs in a stepwise manner. In synchronization with lowering in the voltage of the step voltage line RS a precharge signal PRE is raised in a pulsed manner and then a signal RWL of one of the reference word lines RWL is raised in a pulsed manner. In synchronization with lowering in the voltage of the step voltage line RS the counter signals Countref to Countref and Countrefto Countrefare driven.

Falling of the precharge signal PRE in a pulsed manner causes the node Nrw and the selected local bit line LBL to be precharged. Charges previously stored are extracted from the reference voltage generation circuit VrefG at the time of rising of a reference word line RWLx. When the counter signals Countref to Countref and Countrefto Countrefare driven the latch circuits F Fref to F Fref are driven. Operations of the latch circuits F Fref to F Fref are as explained in and thus detailed explanations thereof will be omitted.

For example at a time t in the voltage of the step voltage line RS is set to Vrs. At a time t the precharge signal PRE falls in a pulsed manner whereby the node Nrw and the selected local bit line LBL are precharged.

Subsequently at a time t the reference word line RWL is raised. This causes the previously stored charges to be extracted from the reference voltage generation circuit VrefG. The amount of charges to be extracted at that time is the amount of charges corresponding to the reference voltage Vref.

Next at a time t the counter signal Countref is pulse driven and then the counter signal Countrefis brought to logic high. Accordingly the latch circuit F Fref in latches the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP.

At a time t the voltage of the step voltage line RS is set to Vrs. At times from t to t the operation performed at the times from t to t is repeated. The counter signal Countref is then pulse driven and then the counter signal Countrefis brought to logic high. Accordingly the latch circuit F Fref in latches the output OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP.

Identical operations are thereafter performed whereby the latch circuits F Fref to F Fref latch the outputs OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP of times when the voltage of the step voltage line RS is Vrs to Vrs respectively. In this way the latch circuits F Fref to F Fref store therein the outputs OPOUT of the operational amplifier AMP corresponding to the voltages Vrs to Vrs of the step voltage line RS respectively in time series.

When the selected memory cell MC is in a high resistance state data 1 not so many charges of the node Nrw are extracted. When the selected memory cell MC is in a low resistance state data 0 many of the charges of the node Nrw are extracted. Therefore in the same manner as the comparison operation of the first embodiment the sense amplifier circuit SA can detect the data 0 and the data 1 .

Read of the reference voltage Vref and read of a signal voltage can be continuously performed each time the potential of the step voltage line RS is changed. For example when the potential of the step voltage line RS is Vrs read of the reference voltage Vref is performed and after precharge is performed read of a signal voltage is performed with no break. Results thereof are latched by the latch circuits F Fref and F Fcell respectively. The potential of the step voltage line RS is then lowered to Vrs. Read of the reference voltage Vref is performed after precharge is performed and then read of a signal voltage is performed with no break after precharge is performed. Results thereof are latched by the latch circuits F Fref and F Fcell respectively. Such an operation is repeatedly performed whereby the first and second register parts REG and REG can latch the outputs OPOUT corresponding to the reference voltage and the signal voltage respectively in time series and the sense amplifier circuit SA can detect the data 0 and the data 1 .

The write driver WD includes resistors Rwd and Rwd N transistors Twdn to Twdn and P transistors Twdp to Twdp. The resistor Rwd functions as a delay element when the write voltage Vwrite is to be raised. The resistor Rwd functions as a delay element for gradually lower the write voltage Vwrite.

The write driver WD is different from the write driver WD in not having the resistor Rwd. Other configurations of the write driver WD can be identical to corresponding configurations of the write driver WD. Because the write driver WD does not have the resistor Rwd the write driver WD lowers the write voltage Vwrite more steeply.

Subsequently at a time t a signal WT rises. Accordingly the write voltages Vwrite start rising at a time t. When the data 0 is to be written the write driver WD shown in applies the write voltage Vwrite to the node Nrw. When the data 1 to be written the write driver WD shown in applies the write voltage Vwrite to the node Nrw. At that time because the write drivers WD and WD have the resistors Rwd respectively the write voltages Vwrite are raised with a certain delay.

Next at a time t the write voltages Vwrite are fallen. In this case because the write driver WD shown in has the resistor Rwd the write voltage Vwrite is gradually fallen with a delay. On the other hand the write driver WD shown in does not have the resistor Rwd the write voltage Vwrite is fallen steeply.

When the write voltage Vwrite is fallen gradually with a delay as by the write driver WD at the time of writing the data 0 quench of the iPCM can be handled.

Therefore the memory according to the third embodiment includes the clamp transistor Tclamp instead of the precharge transistor Tpre. Other configurations of the third embodiment can be identical to corresponding configurations of the second embodiment.

As described above with respect to each of the reference voltage and the signal voltage the sense amplifier circuit SA receives an output of the corresponding global bit line GBL during a period in which the clamp transistor Tclamp flows a current to a selected memory cell via the local bit line LBL. The sense amplifier circuit SA can detect a logical value of the signal voltage by comparing the register parts REG and REG corresponding to the reference voltage and the signal voltage respectively with each other. Therefore the third embodiment can also achieve effects identical to those of first embodiment.

While certain embodiments have been described these embodiments have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the inventions. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms furthermore various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the methods and systems described herein may be made without departing from the spirit of the inventions. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of the inventions.

