---

title: Electronic system with transformable mode mechanism and method of operation thereof
abstract: An electronic system includes a control unit configured to determine a physical configuration based on a sensor reading; determine a device location for establishing a device proximity to a target device; generate an operational mode based on the physical configuration and the device proximity; and a communication unit, coupled to the control unit, configured to send an input signal for interacting with the target device through a client device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363640&OS=09363640&RS=09363640
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09363640
owner_city: Gyeonggi-Do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140805
---
An embodiment of the present invention relates generally to an electronic system and more particularly to a system with a transformable mode mechanism.

Modern portable client and industrial electronics especially client devices such as electronic watches wristbands health monitors smartphones tablets and combination devices are providing increasing levels of functionality to support modern life including facilitating interactions with other electronic devices and appliances. Research and development in the existing technologies can take a myriad of different directions.

As users become more empowered with the growth of portable devices new and old paradigms begin to take advantage of this new device space. There are many technological solutions to take advantage of this new device capability to communicate with other devices. However users often must rely on multiple portable devices to meet the growing needs of modern lifestyles.

Thus a need still remains for an electronic system with a transformable mode mechanism appropriate for today s connected devices. In view of the ever increasing commercial competitive pressures along with growing client expectations and the diminishing opportunities for meaningful product differentiation in the marketplace it is increasingly critical that answers be found to these problems. Additionally the need to reduce costs improve efficiencies and performance and meet competitive pressures adds an even greater urgency to the critical necessity for finding answers to these problems. Solutions to these problems have been long sought but prior developments have not taught or suggested any solutions and thus solutions to these problems have long eluded those skilled in the art.

An embodiment of the present invention provides an electronic system including a control unit configured to determine a physical configuration based on a sensor reading determine a device location for establishing a device proximity to a target device generate an operational mode based on the physical configuration and the device proximity and a communication unit coupled to the control unit configured to send an input signal for interacting with the target device through a client device.

An embodiment of the present invention provides a method of operation of an electronic system including determining with a control unit a physical configuration based on a sensor reading determining a device location for establishing a device proximity to a target device generate an operational mode based on the physical configuration and the device proximity and sending with a communication unit coupled to the control unit an input signal for interacting with the target device through the client device.

An embodiment of the present invention provides a non transitory computer readable medium including instructions for execution by a control unit including determining a physical configuration based on a sensor reading determining a device location for establishing a device proximity to a target device generate an operational mode based on the physical configuration and the device proximity and sending an input signal for interacting with the target device through the client device.

Certain embodiments of the invention have other steps or elements in addition to or in place of those mentioned above. The steps or elements will become apparent to those skilled in the art from a reading of the following detailed description when taken with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The following embodiments of the present invention provide a client device configured to be arranged in different physical configurations including a resting configuration a remote configuration a wearable configuration and handle configuration. The client device can also determine its device location relative to a target device for connecting to the client device.

An embodiment of the present invention can also generate an operational mode of the client device including a gesture mode a monitor mode a game mode or a combination thereof based on the physical configuration of the client device the device proximity of the client device to the target device. The client device can also communicate an input signal to the target device for interacting with the target device.

The following embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to make and use the invention. It is to be understood that other embodiments would be evident based on the present disclosure and that system process or mechanical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

In the following description numerous specific details are given to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In order to avoid obscuring the embodiment of the present invention some well known circuits system configurations and process steps are not disclosed in detail.

The drawings showing embodiments of the system are semi diagrammatic and not to scale and particularly some of the dimensions are for the clarity of presentation and are shown exaggerated in the drawing figures. Similarly although the views in the drawings for ease of description generally show similar orientations this depiction in the figures is arbitrary for the most part. Generally the invention can be operated in any orientation.

The term module referred to herein can include software hardware or a combination thereof in the embodiment of the present invention in accordance with the context in which the term is used. For example the software can be machine code firmware embedded code and application software. Also for example the hardware can be circuitry processor computer integrated circuit integrated circuit cores a pressure sensor an inertial sensor a microelectromechanical system MEMS passive devices or a combination thereof.

Referring now to therein is shown an electronic system with a transformable mode mechanism in an embodiment of the present invention. The electronic system includes a first device such as a client device connected to a second device such as a client device or server. The first device can communicate with the second device with a communication path such as a wireless or wired network.

For example the first device can be any of a variety of wearable devices such as a watch a health monitor a fitness band an electronic bracelet a head mounted device a remote device an electronic accessory or a combination thereof. The first device can be a standalone device or can be incorporated with a mobile device an entertainment device an article of clothing an accessory an adhesive device a multi functional device or a combination thereof. The first device can couple to the communication path to communicate with the second device .

As shown in the first device can include a fastening unit . The fastening unit is configured to secure the first device to a user of the electronic system . For example the fastening unit can include a strap a band a clasp a latch a tie a ring or a combination thereof. As a more specific example the fastening unit can include a watch strap a bracelet clasp an armband a headband a ring band or a combination thereof.

The fastening unit can be constructed of a variety of materials. For example the fastening unit can be constructed of a polymeric material an elastomeric material a metallic material a fabric or a combination thereof. As will be discussed in the sections that follow the fastening unit can embed a plurality of sensors for determining a configuration of the first device .

The second device can be a mobile device or a non mobile device. For example the second device can be any of a variety of mobile devices such as a smartphone a tablet device a cellular phone a personal digital assistant a notebook computer a netbook computer a thin client device a multi functional mobile communication or entertainment device or a combination thereof.

The second device can also be a non mobile device such as a computing device an appliance an internet of things IoT device or a combination thereof. The second device can be any of a variety of centralized or decentralized computing devices. For example the second device can be a desktop computer a grid computing resource a server a server farm a virtualized computing resource a cloud computing resource a router a switch a peer to peer distributed computing resource or a combination thereof.

The second device can be centralized in a single computer room distributed across different rooms distributed across different geographical locations or embedded within a telecommunications network. For example the second device can be a particularized machine such as a mainframe a server a cluster server a rack mounted server or a blade server or as more specific examples an IBM System z10 Business Class mainframe or a HP ProLiant ML server.

The second device can also be an appliance including a living room appliance a kitchen appliance a bathroom appliance a bedroom appliance or a combination thereof. For example the second device can include a television a video device an audio device a clock a lighting unit a home entertainment system a washing machine a refrigerator an oven a microwave a gaming console or a combination thereof. In addition the second device can include a thermostat an alarm system a heating unit a cooling unit an electronic door lock a garage door opener a power generation system or a combination thereof.

For illustrative purposes the electronic system is described with the first device as a wearable device although it is understood that the second device can also be a wearable device. The second device can have a means for coupling with the communication path to communicate with the first device .

Also for illustrative purposes the electronic system is shown with the second device and the first device as end points of the communication path although it is understood that the electronic system can have a different partition between the first device the second device and the communication path .

For example the first device the second device or a combination thereof can also function as part of the communication path . As a more specific example the first device can be a watch type device and the second device can be a server. In this example the first device can connect directly to the second device through the communication path . As an additional example the first device representing the watch type device can connect to the server through another instance of the second device such as a smartphone a notebook a desktop computer or a combination thereof.

The communication path can be a variety of networks or communication mediums. For example the communication path can include wireless communication wired communication optical communication ultrasonic communication or a combination thereof. Satellite communication cellular communication Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy BLE wireless High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI ZigBee Near Field Communication NFC Infrared Data Association standard IrDA wireless fidelity WiFi and worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX are examples of wireless communication that can be included in the communication path . Ethernet HDMI digital subscriber line DSL fiber to the home FTTH and plain old telephone service POTS are examples of wired communication that can be included in the communication path .

Fluid mediums including gases liquid or solids can be examples of communication medium for ultrasonic or other high frequency acoustic communication. An example of a fluid medium is air molecules capable of being displaced by a mechanical wave such as a compression wave.

Further the communication path can traverse a number of network topologies and distances. For example the communication path can include a direct connection personal area network PAN local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN or any combination thereof.

Referring now to therein is shown an exemplary block diagram of the electronic system . The electronic system can include the first device the communication path and the second device . The first device can send information in a first device transmission over the communication path to the second device . The second device can send information in a second device transmission over the communication path to the first device .

For illustrative purposes the electronic system is shown with the first device as a client device although it is understood that the electronic system can have the first device as a different type of device. For example the first device can be a relay device.

Also for illustrative purposes the electronic system is shown with the second device as a mobile device a computing device an appliance or a combination thereof although it is understood that the electronic system can have the second device as a different type of device.

For brevity of description in this embodiment of the present invention the first device will be described as a client device and the second device will be described as a mobile device a computing device an appliance or a combination thereof. Embodiments of the present invention are not limited to this selection for the type of devices. The selection is an example of the embodiments of the present invention.

The first device can include a first control unit a first storage unit a first communication unit a first user interface and a location unit . The first control unit can include a first control interface . The first control unit can execute a first software to provide the intelligence of the electronic system . The first control unit can be implemented in a number of different manners.

For example the first control unit can be a processor an embedded processor a microprocessor a hardware control logic a hardware finite state machine FSM a digital signal processor DSP or a combination thereof. The first control interface can be used for communication between the first control unit and other functional units in the first device . The first control interface can also be used for communication that is external to the first device .

The first control interface can receive information from the other functional units or from external sources or can transmit information to the other functional units or to external destinations. The external sources and the external destinations refer to sources and destinations external to the first device .

The first control interface can be implemented in different ways and can include different implementations depending on which functional units or external units are being interfaced with the first control interface . For example the first control interface can be implemented with a pressure sensor an inertial sensor a microelectromechanical system MEMS optical circuitry waveguides wireless circuitry wireline circuitry or a combination thereof.

The location unit can generate a location information a heading and a speed of the first device as examples. The location unit can be implemented in many ways. For example the location unit can function as at least a part of a global positioning system GPS an inertial navigation system such as a gyroscope an accelerometer a magnetometer a compass a spectrum analyzer a beacon a cellular tower location system a pressure location system or any combination thereof.

The location unit can include a location interface . The location interface can be used for communication between the location unit and other functional units in the first device . The location interface can also be used for communication that is external to the first device .

The location interface can receive information from the other functional units or from external sources or can transmit information to the other functional units or to external destinations. The external sources and the external destinations refer to sources and destinations external to the first device .

The location interface can include different implementations depending on which functional units or external units are being interfaced with the location unit . The location interface can be implemented with technologies and techniques similar to the implementation of the first control interface .

The first storage unit can store the first software . The first storage unit can also store relevant information such as advertisements biometric information points of interest POIs navigation routing entries reviews ratings feedback or any combination thereof.

The first storage unit can be a volatile memory a nonvolatile memory an internal memory an external memory or a combination thereof. For example the first storage unit can be a nonvolatile storage such as non volatile random access memory NVRAM Flash memory disk storage or a volatile storage such as static random access memory SRAM .

The first storage unit can include a first storage interface . The first storage interface can be used for communication between the location unit and other functional units in the first device . The first storage interface can also be used for communication that is external to the first device .

The first storage interface can receive information from the other functional units or from external sources or can transmit information to the other functional units or to external destinations. The external sources and the external destinations refer to sources and destinations external to the first device .

The first storage interface can include different implementations depending on which functional units or external units are being interfaced with the first storage unit . The first storage interface can be implemented with technologies and techniques similar to the implementation of the first control interface .

The first communication unit can enable external communication to and from the first device . For example the first communication unit can permit the first device to communicate with the second device of an attachment such as a peripheral device or a notebook computer and the communication path .

The first communication unit can also function as a communication hub allowing the first device to function as part of the communication path and not limited to be an end point or terminal unit to the communication path . The first communication unit can include active and passive components such as microelectronics or an antenna for interaction with the communication path .

The first communication unit can include a first communication interface . The first communication interface can be used for communication between the first communication unit and other functional units in the first device . The first communication interface can receive information from the other functional units or can transmit information to the other functional units.

The first communication interface can include different implementations depending on which functional units are being interfaced with the first communication unit . The first communication interface can be implemented with technologies and techniques similar to the implementation of the first control interface .

The first user interface allows a user not shown to interface and interact with the first device . The first user interface can include an input device and an output device. Examples of the input device of the first user interface can include a keypad a touchpad soft keys a keyboard an ultrasonic sensor a contact sensor a biometric unit or any combination thereof to provide data and communication inputs.

The ultrasonic sensor is configured to generate a high frequency acoustic wave and evaluate a reflected acoustic wave received by the sensor. For example the ultrasonic sensor can generate an ultrasound wave such as an acoustic wave with a frequency above approximately 20 kHz and receive an echo as a result of the ultrasound wave encountering an obstacle in the direction of travel. In this example the obstacle can be an appendage of a person such as a hand a wall another device or a combination thereof.

The ultrasonic sensor can be implemented in many ways. For example the ultrasonic sensor can be implemented as an ultrasonic integrated circuit an ultrasonic transceiver an ultrasonic transducer an acoustic resonator a piezoelectric transducer or a combination thereof. For illustrative purposes the ultrasonic sensor is shown as being embedded in the first device . However it is understood that the ultrasonic sensor can operate on the periphery or outside of the first device . For example one or more instances of the ultrasonic sensor can be embedded in the fastening unit of the first device .

The contact sensor is configured to detect a physical interaction or physical contact with an object or a person. For example the contact sensor is configured to detect a physical interaction or physical contact with an operator of the first device another component of the first device a component of another device or a combination thereof. As a more specific example the contact sensor can detect a physical contact between the first device and the skin of a user of the first device .

As an additional example the contact sensor can detect a physical contact between one portion of the first device and another portion of the first device . In addition the contact sensor can detect a physical contact between one instance of the fastening unit of the first device and another instance of the fastening unit of the first device .

The contact sensor can be implemented in a variety of ways. For example the contact sensor can be implemented as a capacitive sensor including a plurality of capacitive cells and conductor plates a resistive sensor a piezoelectric sensor including a piezoresistive sensor or a piezocapacitive sensor an acoustic sensor including a surface acoustic wave sensor an array of transducers or actuators a pressure sensor an array of infrared sensors a MEMS sensor or a combination thereof. In addition the contact sensor can be integrated into the first device as wireline circuitry wireless circuitry an integrated circuit a chipset or a combination thereof.

For illustrative purposes the contact sensor is shown as being embedded in the first device . However it is understood that the contact sensor can operate on the periphery or outside of the first device . For example one or more instances of the contact sensor can be embedded in the fastening unit of the first device . In this example the contact sensor can detect when one instance of the fastening unit physically contacts another instance of the fastening unit .

As an additional example the contact sensor can also detect when one instance of the fastening unit physically contacts another component of the first device such as the first display interface . As yet another example when the first device is implemented as a wearable device one or more instances of the contact sensor can detect when a surface of the first device contacts a skin surface of the wearer of the first device .

The biometric unit is configured to identify a user of the first device through a biometric marker including a fingerprint a heart rate or a combination thereof. For example the biometric unit can identify a user of the first device by comparing the fingerprint of the user obtained using a component of the biometric unit against a stored instance of the fingerprint. In addition the biometric unit can identify a user of the first device by comparing a heart rate of the user obtained using a component of the biometric unit against a stored instance of the heart rate.

The biometric unit can be implemented in a number of ways. For example the biometric unit can include a fingerprint scanner a heart rate monitor or a combination thereof. As a more specific example the biometric unit representing the fingerprint scanner can be implemented as a capacitive fingerprint scanner an optical fingerprint scanner including an infrared fingerprint scanner or a combination thereof. In addition the biometric unit representing the heart rate monitor can be implemented as an optical heart rate monitor a capacitive heart rate monitor a conductive heart rate monitor or a combination thereof.

For illustrative purposes the biometric unit is shown as separate from the contact sensor and the first display interface however it should be understood that the biometric unit can encompass any number of components of the first user interface including image capture units a portion of the contact sensor a portion of the first display interface capacitive surfaces resistive surfaces or a combination thereof.

In addition while the biometric unit is shown as being embedded in the first device it should be understood that the biometric unit can operate on the periphery or outside of the first device . For example one or more instances of the biometric unit can be embedded in the fastening unit of the first device .

The first user interface can include a first display interface . The first display interface can include a display a projector a video screen a speaker or any combination thereof.

The first control unit can operate the first user interface to display information generated by the electronic system . The first control unit can also execute the first software for the other functions of the electronic system including receiving location information from the location unit . The first control unit can further execute the first software for interaction with the communication path via the first communication unit .

The second device can be optimized for implementing the various embodiments in a multiple device embodiment with the first device . The second device can provide the additional or higher performance processing power compared to the first device . The second device can include a second control unit a second communication unit and a second user interface .

The second user interface allows the user to interface and interact with the second device . The second user interface can include an input device and an output device. Examples of the input device of the second user interface can include a keypad a touchpad soft keys a keyboard a microphone or any combination thereof to provide data and communication inputs. Examples of the output device of the second user interface can include a second display interface . The second display interface can include a display a projector a video screen a speaker or any combination thereof.

The second control unit can execute a second software to provide the intelligence of the second device of the electronic system . The second software can operate in conjunction with the first software . The second control unit can provide additional performance compared to the first control unit .

The second control unit can operate the second user interface to display information. The second control unit can also execute the second software for the other functions of the electronic system including operating the second communication unit to communicate with the first device over the communication path .

The second control unit can be implemented in a number of different manners. For example the second control unit can be a processor an embedded processor a microprocessor a hardware control logic a hardware finite state machine FSM a digital signal processor DSP or a combination thereof.

The second control unit can include a second controller interface . The second controller interface can be used for communication between the second control unit and other functional units in the second device . The second controller interface can also be used for communication that is external to the second device .

The second controller interface can receive information from the other functional units or from external sources or can transmit information to the other functional units or to external destinations. The external sources and the external destinations refer to sources and destinations external to the second device .

The second controller interface can be implemented in different ways and can include different implementations depending on which functional units or external units are being interfaced with the second controller interface . For example the second controller interface can be implemented with a pressure sensor an inertial sensor a microelectromechanical system MEMS optical circuitry waveguides wireless circuitry wireline circuitry or a combination thereof.

A second storage unit can store the second software . The second storage unit can also store the relevant information such as advertisements biometric information points of interest navigation routing entries reviews ratings feedback or any combination thereof. The second storage unit can be sized to provide the additional storage capacity to supplement the first storage unit .

For illustrative purposes the second storage unit is shown as a single element although it is understood that the second storage unit can be a distribution of storage elements. Also for illustrative purposes the electronic system is shown with the second storage unit as a single hierarchy storage system although it is understood that the electronic system can have the second storage unit in a different configuration. For example the second storage unit can be formed with different storage technologies forming a memory hierarchal system including different levels of caching main memory rotating media or off line storage.

The second storage unit can be a volatile memory a nonvolatile memory an internal memory an external memory or a combination thereof. For example the second storage unit can be a nonvolatile storage such as non volatile random access memory NVRAM Flash memory disk storage or a volatile storage such as static random access memory SRAM .

The second storage unit can include a second storage interface . The second storage interface can be used for communication between the location unit and other functional units in the second device . The second storage interface can also be used for communication that is external to the second device .

The second storage interface can receive information from the other functional units or from external sources or can transmit information to the other functional units or to external destinations. The external sources and the external destinations refer to sources and destinations external to the second device .

The second storage interface can include different implementations depending on which functional units or external units are being interfaced with the second storage unit . The second storage interface can be implemented with technologies and techniques similar to the implementation of the second controller interface .

The second communication unit can enable external communication to and from the second device . For example the second communication unit can permit the second device to communicate with the first device over the communication path .

The second communication unit can also function as a communication hub allowing the second device to function as part of the communication path and not limited to be an end point or terminal unit to the communication path . The second communication unit can include active and passive components such as microelectronics or an antenna for interaction with the communication path .

The second communication unit can include a second communication interface . The second communication interface can be used for communication between the second communication unit and other functional units in the second device . The second communication interface can receive information from the other functional units or can transmit information to the other functional units.

The second communication interface can include different implementations depending on which functional units are being interfaced with the second communication unit . The second communication interface can be implemented with technologies and techniques similar to the implementation of the second controller interface .

The first communication unit can couple with the communication path to send information to the second device in the first device transmission . The second device can receive information in the second communication unit from the first device transmission of the communication path .

The second communication unit can couple with the communication path to send information to the first device in the second device transmission . The first device can receive information in the first communication unit from the second device transmission of the communication path . The electronic system can be executed by the first control unit the second control unit or a combination thereof.

For illustrative purposes the second device is shown with the partition having the second user interface the second storage unit the second control unit and the second communication unit although it is understood that the second device can have a different partition. For example the second software can be partitioned differently such that some or all of its function can be in the second control unit and the second communication unit . Also the second device can include other functional units not shown in for clarity.

The functional units in the first device can work individually and independently of the other functional units. The first device can work individually and independently from the second device and the communication path .

The functional units in the second device can work individually and independently of the other functional units. The second device can work individually and independently from the first device and the communication path .

For illustrative purposes the electronic system is described by operation of the first device and the second device . It is understood that the first device and the second device can operate any of the modules and functions of the electronic system . For example the first device is described to operate the location unit although it is understood that the second device can also operate the location unit .

Referring now to therein is shown exemplary configurations of a client device of the electronic system . For clarity and brevity the discussion of an embodiment of the electronic system will be described with the client device representing the first device of the second device of or a combination thereof. Additionally the electronic system can also include a target device representing the second device . The client device can communicate with the target device another instance of the client device or a combination thereof through the communication path of or a portion therein.

The client device is an electronic device connecting or requesting a connection with the target device . For example the client device can connect with the target device by sending information or instructions to the target device . As a more specific example the client device can send the information or instructions to the target device through the communication path .

The client device can be worn by a user of the electronic system . For example the client device can be implemented as a watch type device and the client device can be worn on the wrist of the user . As an additional example the client device can be implemented as an armband or a portion therein and the client device can be worn around the arm of the user .

The target device can be an electronic device or system for providing a service to the user . The target device can connect with the client device by sending information or instructions to the client device through the communication path . For example the target device can include a television a video device an audio device a clock or other time keeping device a lighting unit a home entertainment system a washing machine a refrigerator an oven a microwave a gaming console or a combination thereof.

The client device can be arranged in a physical configuration . The physical configuration is a shape or arrangement of the client device . The physical configuration can include a wearable configuration a handle configuration a remote configuration a resting configuration or a combination thereof.

The wearable configuration is shape or arrangement of the client device configured to secure the client device to the user . For example the wearable configuration can include a shape or arrangement of the client device configured to be worn by the user . As a more specific example the wearable configuration can include the fastening unit of the client device in a closed or clasped position.

As will be discussed in more detail in the sections below the electronic system can detect that the client device is in the wearable configuration based on a sensor reading . The sensor reading is an output or resulting signal associated with a sensor of the client device . For example the sensor reading can include a contact reading . The contact reading is an instance of the sensor reading associated with the contact sensor . As a more specific example the contact reading can include an output or resulting signal from a capacitive sensor a resistive sensor a piezoelectric sensor or a combination thereof.

As an additional example one or more instances of the contact sensor can detect the contact reading between the user and a ventral surface of the client device . The ventral surface can include a surface of the client device configured to opposite a dorsal surface. For example the client device can be implemented as a watch type device and the ventral surface of the client device can include the side of the watch type device making contact with the wrist of the user .

The electronic system can detect the sensor reading within a detection period . The detection period can be a time period established by the electronic system for gauging a result from a sensor of a device in the electronic system . The detection period can be adjusted based on the sensor used. For example the detection period can range from less than 1 microsecond to more than 10 seconds depending on the sensor used.

The electronic system can also detect the physical configuration of the client device based on a device orientation a device movement or a combination thereof. The device orientation is a spatial positioning of a device in the electronic system . For example the electronic system can detect a change in the device orientation corresponding with a change in a pitch a roll or a yaw of the client device . The device movement is a change in a device location . The device location refers to a geographic position of a device in the electronic system . For example the device location can refer to an absolute position such as a geographic coordinate or a relative position with respect to another device in the electronic system .

The electronic system can detect a change in the device orientation the device movement or a combination thereof using the location unit . The electronic system can also detect whether the device movement of the client device has exceeded a movement threshold . The movement threshold is an instance of the device movement representing a minimum or maximum distance. For example the movement threshold can be any instance of the device movement above 1 meter. As an additional example the movement threshold can be any instance of the device movement above 10 meters.

The electronic system can also detect whether a change in the device orientation of the client device has exceeded an orientation threshold . The orientation threshold is a change in the device orientation representing a minimum or maximum change. For example the orientation threshold can be implemented as a degree change. As a more specific example the orientation threshold can be change in any of the yaw the pitch or the roll of the client device by more than 5 degrees.

The handle configuration is a shape or arrangement of the client device resembling a wand or baton. The client device can be in the handle configuration when the user holds the fastening unit of the client device in one or both hands of the user . The electronic system can detect the client device as being in the handle configuration based on the contact reading from sensors embedded in the fastening unit . As will be discussed in the sections that follow the electronic system can detect the client device as being in the handle configuration based on the device orientation the device movement or a combination thereof.

The remote configuration is a shape or arrangement of the client device configured to receive an input from the user while the user holds the client device . For example the client device can be in the remote configuration when the user holds the fastening unit of the client device and applies a tap input or click input to a display interface of the client device such as the first display interface . As an additional example the client device can be in the remote configuration when the user holds a device body of the client device such as a watch housing and applies a scroll input to the first display interface .

The resting configuration is a shape or arrangement of the client device configured to support a stable or stationary positioning or orientation of the device. For example the resting configuration can include the fastening unit of the client device in an open or unclasped position with the client device situated on a tabletop. In this example the ventral surface of the client device can contact a surface of the tabletop with the watch face of the client device facing upward.

The client device can also generate an operational mode while in an instance of the physical configuration . The operational mode is a functional setting of the client device for interacting with the user of the electronic system the target device or a combination thereof. For example the operational mode can include the monitor mode the game mode the gesture mode or a combination thereof.

The monitor mode is an instance of the operational mode for monitoring a vital sign or physical attribute of the user . For example the monitor mode can include the electronic system activating or enabling certain sensors of the client device including the biometric unit . As an additional example the electronic system can also closely track or record the device orientation the device movement or a combination thereof of the client device while the device operates in the monitor mode .

The game mode is an instance of the operational mode for interacting with a gaming application or gaming program. For example the user can hold the client device in the handle configuration and manipulate the client device as a game controller or joystick. As an additional example when the client device is in the game mode the electronic system can closely track or record the device orientation the device movement or a combination thereof of the client device . As will be discussed in the sections below the client device can connect with an instance of the target device having a displaying interface such as the second display interface to allow the user to view an action or motion associated with the gaming application on the display interface of the target device .

The gesture mode is an instance of the operational mode for receiving a gesture input from the user . For example the gesture mode can include a touch mode a touchless mode or a combination thereof. The touch mode is an instance of the gesture mode for receiving a touch gesture from the user . The touch gesture is a gesture involving the user making physical contact with the client device . For example the touch gesture can include a finger swipe applied to the first display interface . In addition the touch gesture can include a tap gesture applied to a portion of the fastening unit of the client device .

The touchless mode is an instance of the gesture mode for receiving a touchless gesture from the user . The touchless gesture is a gesture not involving the user making physical contact with the client device . For example the touchless gesture can be a hand waving motion detected by the client device . In addition the touchless gesture can be a page turning motion detected by the client device .

The client device can detect the touchless gesture with the ultrasonic sensor an image capture unit an infrared sensor or a combination thereof. For example the client device can detect the touchless gesture with the ultrasonic sensor by emitting an acoustic signal . The acoustic signal can include an ultrasound wave with a frequency above approximately 20 kHz as an example. In this example the client device can detect the touchless gesture by detecting an echo when the acoustic signal encounters an obstacle in its direction of travel such as a hand or another body part of the user .

Referring now to therein is shown an example diagram of the electronic system obtaining a biometric signature . The biometric signature is an identifier associated with a vital sign or a physical attribute of the user . For example the biometric signature can include a fingerprint a heart rate or a combination thereof of the user . The electronic system can use the biometric signature to confirm an identity of the user for accessing the target device .

The electronic system can also use the identity of the user to determine an accessibility of the target device to the user of the client device . The accessibility of the target device refers to whether the client device is capable of connecting or communicating with the client device . As will be discussed in the sections below the accessibility of the target device to the client device can be determined based on the physical configuration of the client device .

The electronic system can also determine the accessibility of the target device based on an access list . The access list is a grouping of multiple instances of the identity for permission to connect to or communicate with the target device . For example the access list can be implemented as a whitelist a blacklist or a combination thereof. The access list can be stored in the first storage unit the second storage unit or a combination thereof.

The target device can emit the beacon signal in a signal range . The signal range is a maximum geographic area covered by the beacon signal . For example the signal range can range from 0.5 meters to 100 meters.

The beacon signal can carry information including a device identification a device type or a combination thereof. The device identification can be information concerning the name of a device the model number of the device the specifications of the device or a combination thereof. The device type can be information concerning a category or classification of a device or system. For example the device type can include an audio device a video type a computing device a kitchen appliance a home appliance an occupancy system or a combination thereof.

As depicted in the client device can gain access to the target device by transmitting an unlock signal a wake up signal or a combination thereof. The unlock signal is a transmission for changing a state of the target device from a locked state to an unlocked state. For example the transmission can be an electromagnetic transmission or an acoustic transmission. As a more specific example the unlock signal can be a wireless signal configured to unlock a display interface of the target device . As an additional example the unlock signal can be an acoustic signal for unlocking an electronic door lock.

The wake up signal is a transmission for changing a state of the target device from an inactive or sleep state to an active or wake state. For example the transmission can be an electromagnetic transmission an optical transmission an acoustic transmission or a combination thereof. As a more specific example the wake up signal can be an infrared signal configured to invoke an event call an operating system OS call or an application programming interface API call for changing the state of the target device from the inactive or sleep state or the active or wake state. The unlock signal the wake up signal or a combination thereof can be transmitted through the communication path of .

Referring now to therein is shown an example diagram of the client device of the electronic system in the handle configuration of . As can be seen in a watch type device representing the client device can be connected to a television representing the target device through a target connection . The target connection is a communication link established between the client device and the target device . For example the target connection can include a backhaul communication link a secured communication link an unsecured communication link an in band radio frequency link an out of band radio frequency link or a combination thereof.

Once the target connection is established the client device can send an input signal to the target device for instructing the target device or manipulating a graphical user interface displayed on the target device . For example as seen in the client device can be in the game mode of while the user holds the client device in the handle configuration . The client device can send an instance of the input signal to the target device when the user undertakes a swinging gesture while holding the client device in the handle configuration . The input signal can be represented on the display interface of the target device as a sword swing in a virtual gaming environment.

As can be seen in the target device can also display a personalized content . The personalized content can include text numbers graphics or a combination thereof generated specifically for a particular instance of the user . The personalized content can be generated based on a usage context . The usage context refers to a set of circumstances or conditions surrounding an operation or activity undertaken by the user related to the client device . The usage context can include a usage order a usage time a usage frequency or a combination thereof.

The usage order is an instance of the usage context representing a sequence of devices connected to the client device . For example the usage order can show that the client device was connected to a washing machine prior to connecting to a gaming console. The usage time refers to a time during which the client device was connected to another device in the electronic system . For example the usage time can indicate that the client device was connected to the washing machine for 10 minutes beginning at 3 04 pm. The usage frequency refers to how often the client device is connected to other devices in the electronic system . For example the usage frequency can reveal that the client device connects to the washing machine every Saturday afternoon.

The usage context can also include a session information concerning an interaction between the client device and the target device . The session information refers to data or metadata concerning the interaction by or between any of the client device the target device or a combination thereof while the target connection is active. For example the session information can include metadata on when a video content generated by the target device was paused or stopped by the client device before the client device terminated the target connection with the target device .

As a more specific example the user can receive an instance of the personalized content as a pop up window informing the user of a washing machine representing a previous instance of the target device having finished a task. The electronic system can generate the personalized content based on the usage context of the client device . In this example the usage context can include the usage order indicating the client device having been previously connected to the washing machine and the session information concerning when a washing task was initiated and how much time before the washing task completes.

As can be seen in the client device can receive a target response from the target device . The target response refers to a signal received from the target device in response to an action undertaken with the client device . For example the target response can include a signal received from the target device acknowledging the reception of the input signal . As an additional example the target response can be implemented as a data packet transmitted as part of a communication transmission. Alternatively the target response can be implemented as an ultrasonic signal such as an acoustic wave having a frequency above approximately 18 kHz.

The client device can generate a haptic feedback upon receiving the target response . The haptic feedback refers to a mechanical stimulation generated by or at the client device for informing the user of a response of the client device the target response or a combination thereof. For example the client device can generate the haptic feedback to alert the user to an instance of the personalized content . As an additional example the client device can generate the haptic feedback to inform the user of an action undertaken by the target device in response to an input received at the client device .

Referring now to therein is shown an example diagram of the client device of the electronic system in the wearable configuration of . The client device can monitor a biometric indicator of the user including the heart rate of a body temperature or a combination thereof of the user . The biometric indicator refers to a vital sign or physical attribute of the user .

As will be discussed in the sections below the client device can monitor the biometric indicator of the user when the client device is operating in the monitor mode in either the handle configuration the wearable configuration or a combination thereof. The client device can monitor the heart rate of the user through a heart rate reading . The heart rate reading refers to a set of data or a graph concerning the heart rate of the user . The electronic system can generate the heart rate reading by monitoring the heart rate of the user over time. The heart rate reading can include an electrocardiograph reading or an electrocardiogram. The client device can obtain the heart rate reading through the biometric unit of .

The client device can also monitor a body temperature of the user . The client device can monitor the body temperature of the user through a temperature reading . The temperature reading is a set of data or a graph concerning the body temperature of the user . The electronic system can generate the temperature reading by monitoring the body temperature of the user over time.

The electronic system can also generate a target setting based on the biometric indicator of the user . The target setting refers to a setting of one or more instances of the target device . For example the target device can be a thermostat and the target setting can be a temperature setting of the thermostat. As can be seen in the client device can detect elevated instances of both the heart rate and the body temperature of the user . The client device can then communicate with a cooling unit such as an air conditioner representing the target device to lower a temperature of the cooling unit representing the target setting accommodate the elevated instances of the heart rate and the body temperature of the user .

Referring now to therein is shown a control flow of the electronic system of . The electronic system can include a configuration module a biometric module a location module an access module an operational module a context module a target module a personalization module or a combination thereof. The configuration module is configured to determine the physical configuration of of the client device . For example the configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the client device as the resting configuration of the remote configuration of the wearable configuration of or the handle configuration of .

The configuration module determines the physical configuration of the client device in a number of ways. The configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the client device based on one or more instances of the sensor reading of within the detection period of . More specifically the configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the client device based on the contact reading of from one or more instances of the contact sensor of the device orientation of from the gyroscope of the location unit of the device movement of from the accelerometer of the location unit or a combination thereof.

For example the configuration module can make an initial assessment of whether any instances of the contact sensor has detected contact with the user . In this example the configuration module can make the assessment based on a capacitance reading or resistive reading representing physical contact with human skin. If the contact reading does not indicate physical contact with the user the configuration module can exclude the handle configuration the remote configuration and the wearable configuration from consideration as possibilities for the physical configuration . In this example the configuration module can initially determine the physical configuration as the resting configuration .

The configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the client device by taking into account the device movement the device orientation or a combination thereof within the detection period . For example the configuration module can determine the physical configuration as the resting configuration when the sensor reading from the accelerometer and the gyroscope indicate no occurrence of the device movement and no change in the device orientation respectively within the detection period .

In the example where the sensor reading shows no change in the device movement or the device orientation the configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the client device as the resting configuration even if an instance of the contact sensor detects physical contact with the user on a portion of the target device other than the first display interface . As a more specific example the configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the client device as the resting configuration when the client device is resting on a table top and the user is not touching the client device . As an additional example the configuration module can also determine the physical configuration of the client device as the resting configuration when the client device is steadily holding the client device but not touching the touchpad or touchscreen of the client device .

The configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the client device as the remote configuration based on the device movement and the sensor reading . For example the configuration module can initially determine the physical configuration of the client device as the remote configuration when the sensor reading indicates physical contact by the user with a display interface of the client device within the detection period . As a more specific example the sensor reading can indicate the user applying a touch gesture to a touchpad or a touchscreen of the client device .

However the configuration module can exclude the remote configuration as a possibility for the physical configuration if the physical contact with the display interface is also accompanied by an occurrence of the device movement exceeding an instance of the movement threshold at the time the physical contact is made. For example the configuration module can exclude the remote configuration as a possibility for the physical configuration if a touch gesture applied by the user to the touchpad of the client device occurs while the client device is being noticeably moved from its original position before the touch gesture was applied. As a more specific example the movement threshold can be an instance of the device movement representing a distance greater than the longest dimension of the client device .

Alternatively the configuration module can determine the physical configuration as the remote configuration if the physical contact with the display interface is not accompanied by an occurrence of the device movement exceeding an instance of the movement threshold . As a more specific example the configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the client device as the remote configuration when the user holds the client device steady while applying a touch gesture to a touchpad or a touchscreen of the client device .

As an additional example the client device can be implemented as a watch type device. In this example the configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the watch type device as the remote configuration when the user holds the straps of the watch type device while applying a touch gesture to a display interface of the watch type device.

The configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the client device as the handle configuration based on the sensor reading the device orientation the device movement or a combination thereof. For example the configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the client device as the handle configuration when the contact reading indicates physical contact by the user resulting in contact between specific components of the client device .

As a more specific example the configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the client device as the handle configuration when a hand of the user brings together one portion of the fastening unit with another portion of the fastening unit . In this example the client device can be implemented as a watch type device and the configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the watch type device as the handle configuration when the hand of the user squeezes together the straps of the watch type device.

Moreover the configuration module can also take into account the device movement a change in the device orientation or a combination thereof. For example the configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the client device as the handle configuration when physical contact with the user is detected along with the device movement exceeding an instance of the movement threshold . More specifically the movement threshold can be a minimum of 10 centimeters and the configuration module can also take into account any change in the device orientation while the client device engages in the device movement .

In addition the configuration module can determine the physical configuration as the handle configuration when the sensor reading indicates physical contact with the user accompanied by an occurrence of the device movement and a change in the device orientation within the detection period . As a more specific example the configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the client device as the handle configuration when the user holds the fastening unit of the client device as a sword or baton while mimicking a swinging motion.

The configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the client device as the wearable configuration based on the sensor reading the device movement the device orientation or a combination thereof. For example the configuration module can determine physical configuration of the client device as the wearable configuration when the contact reading indicates physical contact with the user and physical contact between components of a latching or securing mechanism of the client device .

As a more specific example the client device can be a watch type device and the latching or securing mechanism can be magnetic portions of the fastening unit configured to secure two ends of the fastening unit together. As an additional example the latching or securing mechanism can be a connector mechanism including a male component and a female component. In this latter example one or more instances of the contact sensor can be embedded in the connector mechanism and the configuration module can identify the closing of the connector mechanism from the contact reading .

Additionally the configuration module can determine the physical configuration as the wearable configuration when the contact reading indicates physical contact between the skin of the user and portions of the ventral surface of of the client device having the contact sensor . For example the client device can be implemented as a watch type device and the ventral surface of the watch type device can include the underside of the watch face as well as the underside of the watch straps. In this example the configuration module can determine the physical configuration of the watch type device as the wearable configuration when one or more instances of the contact sensor embedded in the watch straps detects physical contact between the wrist of the user and the watch type device.

Moreover the configuration module can take into account the device movement and changes in the device orientation . For example the configuration module can determine the physical configuration as the wearable configuration when physical contact between the ventral surface of the client device and the user is accompanied by the device movement exceeding an instance of the movement threshold or a change in the device orientation within the detection period . As a more specific example the configuration module can determine the physical configuration as the wearable configuration when the user wears the client device by securing the client device on to a body part of the user .

The configuration module can be part of the first software of the second software of or a combination thereof. The first control unit of can execute the first software the second control unit of can execute the second software or a combination thereof to determine the physical configuration .

Moreover the configuration module can also communicate the physical configuration between devices through the first communication unit of the second communication unit of or a combination thereof. After determining the physical configuration the control flow can pass from the configuration module to the biometric module .

The biometric module is configured to determine the biometric signature of . The biometric module can determine the biometric signature for recognizing the identity of of the user . The biometric module can determine the biometric signature in a variety of ways.

For example the biometric module can determine the biometric signature representing the fingerprint of of the user for recognizing the identity of the user . The biometric module can determine the biometric signature representing the fingerprint based on the physical configuration . As a specific example the biometric module can automatically determine the fingerprint of the user when the physical configuration of the client device is in the handle configuration . As a more specific example the client device can have one or more instances of the biometric unit including the contact sensor embedded in the fastening unit of the client device . In this example the biometric module can determine the fingerprint of the user based on the contact reading by simply having the user hold the client device by the fastening unit in the handle configuration .

As an additional example the biometric module can also determine the fingerprint of the user when the physical configuration of the client device is in the remote configuration the wearable configuration or a combination thereof. Similar to the example above the biometric module can determine the fingerprint of the user based on the contact reading when the user makes physical contact with the fastening unit while the client device is in either the remote configuration or the wearable configuration . In addition the biometric module can automatically determine the fingerprint of the user when the user makes physical contact with a portion of the first display interface while the client device is in either the remote configuration or the wearable configuration .

As a more specific example the client device can have one or more instances of the biometric unit including an optical fingerprint scanner a capacitive fingerprint scanner or a combination thereof embedded in the first display interface . In this example the biometric module can determine the fingerprint of the user when the user applies the touch gesture of to the first display interface . The biometric module can determine the fingerprint by comparing one or more extracted features of the fingerprint including an arch a loop or a whorl against features of a stored instance of the fingerprint of the user .

The biometric unit can use a variety of mechanisms to compare the features of the fingerprint with a stored instance of the fingerprint including a pattern recognition an image matching a minutiae comparison a phase based matching such as a Fourier phase matching or a combination thereof. The biometric unit can recognize the identity of the user when a comparison of the fingerprint captured by the client device matches the stored instance of the fingerprint of the user .

The biometric module can also determine the biometric signature representing the heart rate of of the user for recognizing the identity of the user . For example the biometric module can automatically determine the heart rate of the user when the physical configuration of the client device is in the wearable configuration . As a more specific example the client device can have one or more instances of the biometric unit including the optical heart rate monitor the capacitive heart rate monitor the conductive heart rate monitor or a combination thereof embedded in the fastening unit of the client device . In this example the biometric module can determine the heart rate of the user based on the contact reading an image of a portion of the skin closest to the biometric unit or a combination thereof. Also in this example the biometric module can determine the heart rate of the user by simply having the user wear the client device .

As an additional example the biometric module can also automatically determine the heart rate of the user when the physical configuration is in the handle configuration . In this example the biometric module can determine the heart rate of the user based on the contact reading when the user holds one or more instances of the fastening unit in the hand of the user .

The biometric module can also determine the heart rate when the physical configuration of the client device is in the remote configuration the resting configuration or a combination thereof. For example the biometric module can determine the heart rate of the user when the user physically contacts a portion of the client device including the fastening unit the first display interface or a combination thereof while the client device is in either the resting configuration or the remote configuration . In addition the biometric module can also determine the heart rate of the user when the user places a portion of the skin of the user close to an image capture unit of the biometric unit .

The biometric module can determine the heart rate of the user as within an acceptable range for recognizing the identity of the user . The biometric module can also determine the heart rate of the user based on an activity level of the user . For example the physical configuration of the client device can be in the wearable configuration and the biometric module can determine the heart rate of the user as between 150 to 160 beats per minute bpm . The biometric module can determine the heart rate by comparing the heart rate reading of the user against a stored instance of the heart rate reading after accounting for the activity level of the user . For example the biometric module can compare the heart rate reading of the user after a 30 minute jog with a stored instance of the heart rate reading generated after a similar level of activity.

The biometric module can use a variety of algorithms to compare the heart rate reading including an electrocardiograph reading or an electrocardiogram EKG of the user. For example the biometric module can use a signal processing algorithm a signal comparison algorithm a signal matching algorithm a differentiation algorithm or a combination thereof to determine the heart rate of the user . The biometric unit can recognize the identity of the user when a comparison of the heart rate reading matches a stored instance of the heart rate reading .

The biometric module is also configured to track the biometric indicator of . As discussed previously the biometric indicator can include the heart rate of the user the body temperature of of the user or a combination thereof.

The biometric module can track the heart rate of the user on a continuous basis or a periodic basis. For example the biometric module can track the heart rate of the user on a periodic basis when the user has the client device in the handle configuration . As an additional example the biometric module can track the heart rate of the user on a continuous basis when the user has the client device in the wearable configuration .

The biometric module can also track the biometric indicator representing the body temperature of the user . For example the biometric module can automatically track the temperature reading of for gauging the body temperature of the user while the client device is in the wearable configuration the handle configuration or a combination thereof. For example the client device can be a watch type device and the biometric unit can obtain the temperature reading through a physical contact made by the wrist of the user and the ventral surface of the client device .

The biometric module can also track the temperature reading of the user when the client device is in the resting configuration the remote configuration the handle configuration or a combination thereof. For example the biometric module can track the temperature reading of the user when the user applies an instance of the touch gesture to a portion of the client device including a dorsal or upper surface of the fastening unit the first display interface or a combination thereof.

The biometric module can track the temperature reading of the user using the contact sensor . As will be discussed in the sections that follow the electronic system can generate the personalized content of based on the biometric indicator .

The biometric module can be part of the first software the second software or a combination thereof. The first control unit can execute the first software the second control unit can execute the second software or a combination thereof to determine the biometric signature and track the biometric indicator .

Moreover the biometric module can also communicate the biometric signature and the biometric indicator between devices through the first communication unit the second communication unit or a combination thereof. After determining the biometric signature and tracking the biometric indicator the control flow can pass from the biometric module to the location module .

The location module is configured to determine the device location of of the client device . The location module can determine the device location of the client device for establishing the device proximity of of the client device to the target device . The location module can determine the device location of the client device in a number of ways.

The location module can determine the device location of the client device based on locational signals transmitted by the location unit of . For example the location module can determine a geographic coordinate of the client device by using the GPS component of the location unit . In addition the location module can determine the geographic coordinate of the client device using cellular tower triangulation. Moreover the location module can also determine the geographic coordinate of one or more instances of the target device when the target device includes a location unit having a GPS component an antenna or a combination thereof.

Furthermore the location module can use both the location unit and the first communication unit to determine the device location of the client device when cellular or GPS signals are inaccessible or low such as within a home a residence an office an indoor structure an underground structure or a combination thereof. In this example the location module can detect the beacon signal of generated by the target device . As indicated previously the beacon signal can include a Bluetooth signal such as a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE signal a WiFi signal an acoustic signal an infrared signal or a combination thereof.

The beacon signal can also include information concerning the device identification of the device type of the signal range of or a combination thereof. For example the target device can emit different instances of the beacon signal each having a different instance of the signal range . As a more specific example the signal range of the beacon signal can extend from 0.5 meters to 100 meters. The location module can determine the device proximity of the client device to the target device based on which instance of the signal range the client device detects.

The location module can also use the beacon signal from multiple instances of the target device to triangulate the device location of the client device and track the device movement within the home the residence the office the indoor structure the underground structure or a combination thereof. In addition the electronic system can also use the beacon signal from multiple instances of the target device to determine the device location of the target device relative to another instance of the target device . Furthermore the location module can determine the device location of the target device based on an input from the user a map a floor plan a blueprint or a combination thereof.

The location module can be part of the first software the second software or a combination thereof. The first control unit can execute the first software the second control unit can execute the second software or a combination thereof to determine the device location of the client device and the device proximity of the client device to the target device .

Moreover the location module can also communicate the device location of the client device between devices through the first communication unit the second communication unit or a combination thereof. After determining the device location of the client device the control flow can pass from the location module to the access module .

The access module is configured to determine the accessibility of of the target device to the client device and to grant the client device access to the target device . The access module can determine the accessibility of the target device in a number of ways.

The access module can determine the accessibility of the target device after inferring an intention of the user to access the target device . The access module can infer the intention of the user to access the target device based on the physical configuration of the client device the device proximity of the client device to the target device or a combination thereof.

For example the access module can determine the physical configuration of the client device as the handle configuration . The access module can then determine the instances of the target device which can be controlled or commanded by the client device while in the handle configuration . The access module can make this determination based on the device type the device identification including the hardware specifications of the target device or a combination thereof. As a more specific example when the client device is in the handle configuration the access module can determine all instances of the target device having a display interface such as the second display interface in the device proximity of the client device .

In this example the device proximity can be a distance allowing the user visual access to the display interface of the target device . As an even more specific example when the client device is in the handle configuration the access module can scan for all notebooks desktop computers or networked televisions within 10 meters of the client device .

Similarly the access module can establish the device proximity as within 10 meters when the client device is in the resting configuration . Moreover the access module can also limit the device type of the target device to those having a display interface.

As an additional example when the client device is in either the wearable configuration or the remote configuration the access module can expand the device type to include all instances of the target device as well as those without a display interface and can extend the device proximity of such devices to a further distance. As a more specific example when the client device is in the wearable configuration the access module can even scan for instances of the target device in a different room or a different section of the building from the target device .

Furthermore the access module can take into account the device orientation the device movement or a combination thereof when the client device is in the wearable configuration . For example the access module can infer the user is not intending to access any instances of the target device when the device movement is detected or the device orientation of the client device changes rapidly within the detection period . As a more specific example the client device can be implemented as a watch type device and the access module can infer the user is not intending to access any instances of the target device using the client device when the watch face of the device is not facing upwards or toward a positive y axis direction in a spatial coordinate system.

The access module can also infer the intention of the user to access the target device based on the usage context of . For example the access module can determine the user intends to access an instance of the target device because the user previously connected to the target device at the same time each day for the past week. Moreover the access module can determine the user intends to access another instance of the target device as a result of the user using two other instances of the target device of the same device type within a short period of time. The usage context will be discussed in more detail in the sections that follow.

Once the access module has determined the instances of the target device capable of being controlled by the client device based on the physical configuration and the device proximity the access module can determine whether the particular instance of the user is permitted to access the target device based on the identity of the user . For example the access module can search the access list of to determine whether the user is listed in the access list . The access list can be an access whitelist granting access to a device or an access blacklist denying access to a device. The access list can be implemented as a relational database a key value database an array database a columnar database an object oriented database or a combination thereof. The access list can be stored in the first storage unit the second storage unit or a combination thereof.

The access module can also determine the accessibility of the target device to the client device based on an input from the user . For example the user can select an instance of the target device the user intends to access using the client device . The user can select the instance of the target device by choosing from a dropdown menu a scroll menu an icon list a map or a combination thereof.

It has been discovered that determining the accessibility of the target device to the client device based on the physical configuration and the device location of the target device provides for a more improved method of choosing the target device . More specifically determining the accessibility of the target device to the client device based on the physical configuration the device proximity of the client device to the target device the device movement the device orientation or a combination thereof allows the electronic system to quickly narrow down potential candidates for the target device to those appropriate for the current instance of the physical configuration of the client device .

It has further been discovered that determining the accessibility of the target device to the client device based on the device location and the physical configuration of the target device provides for improved resource usage. More specifically determining the accessibility of the target device to the client device based on the device proximity of the client device to the target device and a particular instance of the physical configuration reduces energy from being wasted on querying instances of the target device not suitable for pairing with the client device in the particular instance of the physical configuration .

Once the access module has determined the accessibility of the target device to the client device the access module can grant the client device access to the target device . The access module can grant the client device access to the target device by generating the unlock signal of the wake up signal of or a combination thereof. The access module can generate the unlock signal the wake up signal or a combination thereof using a wireless protocol via the communication path .

For example the access module can generate the unlock signal to unlock a physical object such as an electronic door lock an appliance lock such as an electronic refrigerator lock or a combination thereof. In addition the access module can generate the unlock signal to change the state of an electronic device from a locked state to an unlocked state. As a more specific example the access module can generate the unlock signal to unlock a security screen of a computing device such as a notebook a desktop computer a smartphone or a combination thereof.

As an additional example the access module can generate the wake up signal to change the state of an electronic device from a sleep or standby state or mode to an active state. As a more specific example the access module can generate the wake up signal to change the state of a coffee maker from a sleep state to an active state.

The access module can be part of the first software the second software or a combination thereof. The first control unit can execute the first software the second control unit can execute the second software or a combination thereof to determine the accessibility of the target device .

Moreover the access module can also communicate the accessibility of the target device between devices through the first communication unit the second communication unit or a combination thereof. After determining the accessibility of the target device the control flow can pass from the access module to the operational module .

The operational module is configured to generate the operational mode of of the client device . For example the operational module can generate the operational mode as the monitor mode of the game mode of the gesture mode of or a combination thereof. The operational module can generate the operational mode in a variety of ways.

The operational module can generate the operational mode by determining the intention of the user to operate the client device in an instance of the operational mode . For example the operational module can infer the intention of the user to undertake the operational mode based on the physical configuration of the client device the device proximity of the client device to the target device the device orientation of the client device the device movement of the client device or a combination thereof.

As a more specific example the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the client device in the monitor mode the game mode or a combination thereof when the physical configuration of the client device is in the handle configuration . As an even more specific example the client device can be implemented as a watch type device the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the watch type device in the monitor mode the game mode or both the monitor mode and the game mode when the user holds the watch type device in one or two hands of the user by the fastening unit of the watch type device.

In addition the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the client device in either the monitor mode or the game mode in the handle configuration based on a change in the device orientation the device movement or a combination thereof. For example the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the client device in the game mode when the operational module detects a change in the device orientation representing a rotation of the client device beyond the orientation threshold of within an instance of the detection period . In this example the orientation threshold can be a 30 degree change in yaw or pitch within the detection period of less than 1 second.

As an additional example the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the client device in the monitor mode when the operational module detects the device movement representing a change in the device location of the client device beyond the movement threshold within an instance of the detection period . In this example the movement threshold can be a change in the device location of the client device of more than 1 meter within the detection period of less than 5 seconds.

As another example the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the client device in the monitor mode the game mode the gesture mode or a combination thereof when the physical configuration of the client device is in the wearable configuration . As an even more specific example the client device can be implemented as a fitness band the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the fitness band in any of the monitor mode the game mode the gesture mode or a combination thereof when the user secures the fitness band to a wrist of the user .

In addition the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the client device in the wearable configuration in one or any combination of the monitor mode the game mode or the gesture mode based on a change in the device orientation the device movement or a combination thereof. For example the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the client device in the monitor mode the game mode or a combination of the monitor mode and the game mode when the operational module detects a change in the device orientation representing a rotation of the client device beyond the orientation threshold of 20 degrees in any orientation within the detection period of less than 3 seconds.

Furthermore the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the client device as either the monitor mode or the game mode based on the device movement . More specifically the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the client device in the monitor mode rather than the game mode when the device movement exceeds the movement threshold of more than 3 meters within the detection period of 20 seconds.

Moreover the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the client device in the gesture mode when the client device is in the wearable configuration based on the device movement and the device orientation . More specifically the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the client device in the gesture mode in the wearable configuration when neither the device movement nor the device orientation exceeds the movement threshold or the orientation threshold respectively. For example the operational module infer the user intends to operate the client device in the gesture mode when the client device is in the wearable configuration and no perceivable change in the device movement or the device orientation is detected within an instance of the detection period .

As yet another example the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the client device in the gesture mode when the physical configuration of the client device is in the resting configuration or the remote configuration . As an even more specific example the client device can be implemented as a watch type device and the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the watch type device in the gesture mode when the watch type device is either resting on a table top without being secured to the user or the user is applying the touch gesture to the watch face with one hand while holding the device by the other hand.

The operational module can further differentiate the gesture mode into the touchless mode of or the touch mode of . For example the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the client device in the touchless mode when the physical configuration of the client device is in either the resting configuration or the wearable configuration . Alternatively the operational module can infer the intention of the user to operate the client device in the touch mode when the physical configuration of the client device is in any of the remote configuration the wearable configuration or the resting configuration .

The operational module can determine the intention of the user to operate the client device in the touchless mode by identifying the touchless gesture of based on the acoustic signal of transmitted from the client device . For example the operational module can determine the intention of the user to operate the client device in the touchless mode based on an instance of the acoustic signal received at the ultrasonic sensor . The operational module can identify the touchless gesture as a result of a physical phenomenon such as a wave propagation phenomenon. More specifically the operational module can identify the touchless gesture as a result of a characteristic of a reflected acoustic wave or signal due to the Doppler effect or the Doppler shift.

Moreover the operational module can also determine the intention of the user to operate the client device in the touchless mode by identifying the touchless gesture based on an infrared signal a radio frequency signal a light reflectance or a combination thereof. For example the operational module can identify the touchless gesture through images captured of the touchless gesture .

The operational module can determine the intention of the user to operate the client device in the touch mode by detecting an instance of the contact reading between the user and a display interface of the client device such as the first display interface . More specifically the operational module can determine the intention of the user to operate the client device in the touch mode by detecting the contact reading between the user and the display interface while the client device is in any of the remote configuration the wearable configuration or the resting configuration .

The operational module can also determine the intention of the user to operate the client device in the operational mode based on an input by the user . For example the operational module can determine the intention of the user to operate the client device in the game mode based on the input by the user through a selection made from a dropdown menu or list an audio input or a combination thereof.

The operational module can generate the operational mode by disabling one or more sensors of the client device enabling one or more sensors of the client device or a combination thereof. The operational module can disable or enable one or more sensors of the client device after determining the intention of the user to operate the client device in an instance of the operational mode .

The operational module can enable a sensor of the client device by activating one or more components of the sensor putting the sensor in a wake mode actively seeking an input for the sensor or a combination thereof. The operational module can disable a sensor of the client device by deactivating one or more components of the sensor putting the sensor in a sleep mode ignoring an input received at the sensor or a combination thereof.

As a more specific example the operational module can generate the game mode by enabling one or more components of the location unit the biometric unit the contact sensor in the fastening unit or a combination thereof. In addition the operational module can generate the game mode by disabling one or more components of the ultrasonic sensor the contact sensor coupled to a display interface such as the first display interface or a combination thereof.

As an additional example the operational module can generate the monitor mode by enabling one or more components of the location unit the biometric unit the contact sensor in the fastening unit or a combination thereof. In addition the operational module can generate the monitor mode by disabling one or more components of the ultrasonic sensor the contact sensor coupled to a display interface such as the first display interface or a combination thereof.

As another example the operational module can generate the gesture mode representing the touchless mode by enabling one or more components of the ultrasonic sensor the location unit or a combination thereof. In addition the operational module can generate the gesture mode representing the touchless mode by disabling one or more components of the biometric unit the contact sensor or a combination thereof.

As yet another example the operational module can generate the gesture mode representing the touch mode by enabling one or more components of the contact sensor the location unit or a combination thereof. In addition the operational module can generate the gesture mode representing the touch mode by disabling one or more components of the biometric unit the ultrasonic sensor or a combination thereof.

It has been discovered that generating the operational mode based on the physical configuration of the client device by enabling or disabling one or more sensors of the client device provides improved resource efficiency. More specifically enabling certain sensors of the client device and disabling other sensors based on the physical configuration of the client device reduces energy usage by not having to power sensors not currently being used by the client device in a particular instance of the physical configuration . In addition segmenting the functionality of the client device into multiple instances of the operational mode focuses the processing power of the electronic system into processing commands or instructions essential to applications or programs desired by the user in the particular instance of the physical configuration such as gaming applications or health monitoring applications.

The operational module can be part of the first software the second software or a combination thereof. The first control unit can execute the first software the second control unit can execute the second software or a combination thereof to generate the operational mode .

Moreover the operational module can also communicate the operational mode between devices through the first communication unit the second communication unit or a combination thereof. After generating the operational mode the control flow can pass from the operational module to the contextual module .

The context module is configured to determine the usage context . The context module can determine the usage context in a number of ways. For example the context module can determine the usage context representing the usage order of based on the device movement over time. As a more specific example the context module can determine the usage order based on the device movement by tracking the device location of the client device over a period of time. As a more specific example the context module can track the device movement of the client device in the last 60 minutes the last 24 hours the 72 hours or a combination thereof.

The context module can keep a record of the device type the device identification or a combination thereof of the instances of the target device accessed by or previously connected to the client device . In addition the context module can keep a record of a sequence of the instances of the target device accessed by or previously connected to the client device . Moreover the context module can also keep a record of the operational mode the physical configuration or a combination there at each instance of the target device of the usage order .

As a more specific example the context module can determine the first instance of the target device in the usage order as a washing machine controlled by the client device in the gesture mode while in the wearable configuration . Continuing with this example the context module can determine the second instance of the target device in the usage order as a television controlled by the client device in the game mode while in the handle configuration . Finally the context module can determine the most recent instance of the target device in the usage order as a desktop computer controlled by the client device in the gesture mode while in the resting configuration .

As an additional example the context module can determine the usage context representing the usage time of . The context module can determine the usage time by keeping a record of when the client device interacted with the target device . The context module can determine the usage time for each instance of the target device included in the usage order . The context module can determine the usage time representing the time of day the day of the week a specific calendar day or a combination thereof.

As yet another example the context module can determine the usage context representing the usage frequency of . The context module can determine the usage frequency based on the usage order and the usage time . As a more specific example the context module can determine the usage frequency of the client device connecting to a thermostat as twice a day on weekdays and once a day on the weekends.

The context module can also store as part of the usage context the session information of concerning a previous instance of the interaction between the client device and the target device . For example the context module can store as part of the session information the amount of time remaining on a countdown timer of a kitchen appliance a video or audio bookmark indicating a pause or interruption in a video or audio content or a progression marker indicating a pause or interruption in video game. The context module can store the session information as a timestamp an interrupt a digital marker or a combination thereof.

The context module can organize information concerning the usage context in a relational database a key value database an array database a columnar database an object oriented database or a combination thereof. The context module can also store the usage context representing the usage order the usage frequency the usage time or a combination thereof in the first storage unit the second storage unit or a combination thereof.

The context module can be part of the first software the second software or a combination thereof. The first control unit can execute the first software the second control unit can execute the second software or a combination thereof to determine the usage context .

Moreover the context module can also communicate the usage context between devices through the first communication unit the second communication unit or a combination thereof. After determining the usage context the control flow can pass from the context module to the target module .

The target module is configured to determine the target connection of for connecting the client device with the target device and send the input signal of to the target device . The target module can determine the target connection in a variety of ways.

The target module can infer the target connection representing the desire or intention of the user to connect the client device with one or more instances of the target device . The target module can infer the target connection based on the accessibility of the target device the operational mode of the client device the physical configuration of the client device the usage context the biometric indicator or a combination thereof.

For example the target module can infer the target connection by analyzing all currently accessible instances of the target device for components or functionality compatible with the operational mode of the client device . As a more specific example the client device can be in the gesture mode representing the touchless mode and the physical configuration of the client device can be in the resting configuration . In this example the target module can analyze all currently accessible instances of the target device for those having a display interface such as the second display interface . The target module can then analyze the usage context to determine which of the instances of the target device having the display interface the user desires to connect with the client device .

In this example the target module can examine the usage time including the current time of day and day of the week the usage order including the three preceding instances of the target device connected to the client device and the usage frequency of the instances of the target device having the display interface. As an even more specific example the target module can choose a desktop computer within 1 meter of the client device for the target connection because the user has a history of using the client device to control the desktop computer to browse the internet at the same time each weekday.

As an additional example the client device can be in the game mode and the physical configuration of the client device can be in the handle configuration . In this example the target module can analyze all currently accessible instances of the target device for those having a display interface above a certain size threshold. The target module can then analyze the usage context to determine which of the instances of the target device having the display interface above the size threshold the user has connected with in the past for gaming activities. Moreover the target module can analyze the device location of the instances of the target device to determine which instances of the target device is located in an area suitable for the user to make gaming motions with the client device . As a result of this analysis the target module can choose a networked television in a living room within 5 meters of the client device .

As yet another example the client device can be in the monitor mode and the physical configuration of the client device can be in the wearable configuration . In this example the target module can analyze all currently accessible instances of the target device for those capable of adjusting the target setting of based on the biometric indicator of the user . In addition the target module can also analyze all currently accessible instances of the target device for those capable of communicating a number a text a graphic or a combination thereof.

As a more specific example the client device can detect both the heart rate and the body temperature of the user as going up based on the heart rate reading and the temperature reading . Based on these readings the target module can infer the user intends to connect to a thermostat to adjust the target setting of the thermostat to accommodate the rising heart rate and body temperate of the user . Moreover the target module can analyze all instances of the target device accessible to the client device having a display interface. The target module can use this device to communicate numbers text or graphics associated with the biometric indicator captured by the client device to the user .

The target module can also determine the target connection based on an input from the user . For example the user apply an instance of the touch gesture the touchless gesture or a combination thereof to select the target device . As a more specific example the user can select the instance of the target device by choosing from a dropdown menu a scroll menu an icon list a map or a combination thereof. In addition the user can provide an audio input to select the target device .

The target module is also configured to send the input signal to the target device once the target connection has been established. The target module can send the input signal to the target device to interact with the target device using the client device . The input signal can be used by the client device to change a state of the target device .

For example the input signal can include the wake up signal the unlock signal or a combination thereof. As a more specific example the input signal can be a signal invoking an event call an Application Programming Interface API call an operating system OS call or a combination thereof. The input signal can be implemented as a Bluetooth signal such as a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE signal a WiFi signal an acoustic signal an infrared signal or a combination thereof.

The target module is also configured to generate the haptic feedback of for communicating the target response of from the target device . The target module can generate the haptic feedback through the first user interface when the client device is in the handle configuration the wearable configuration or the remote configuration . The target module can generate the haptic feedback in response to the target response from the target device .

For example the target module can generate the haptic feedback to communicate the occurrence or presence of an alert a notification a pop up window to the user of the client device . As an additional example the target module can generate the haptic feedback to communicate the reception of a command or an instruction by the target device from the client device . As a more specific example the target module can generate the haptic feedback by vibrating the client device worn on the wrist of the user . The haptic feedback can update the user on the operational status of an instance of the target device such as a washing machine a stove a dishwasher or a combination thereof.

The target module can be part of the first software the second software or a combination thereof. The first control unit can execute the first software the second control unit can execute the second software or a combination thereof to determine the target connection and send the input signal .

Moreover the target module can also communicate the target connection and the input signal between devices through the first communication unit the second communication unit or a combination thereof. After determining the target connection and sending the input signal the control flow can pass from the target module to the personalization module .

The personalization module is configured to generate the personalized content of and the target setting of . The personalization module can generate the personalized content and the target setting in a number of ways.

The personalization module can generate the personalized content based on the usage context . For example the personalization module can generate the personalized content based on the usage order the usage time the session information or a combination thereof. As a more specific example the client device can be a watch type device and the user can establish the target connection with a WiFi enabled television as the target device . The personalization module can detect the usage context of the electronic system as the user previously having watched of a movie on a desktop computer while also wearing the client device . The personalization module can determine the stopping point of the movie from the session information of the previous instance of the target connection between the client device and the desktop computer. Based on this information the personalization module can generate the personalized content on the WiFi enabled television as the remaining of the movie started by the user .

The personalization module can also generate the personalized content based on the biometric signature the biometric indicator of the user or a combination thereof. For example the personalization module can generate the personalized content based on the identity of the user obtained through the biometric unit . As an additional example the personalization module can generate the personalized content based on the biometric indicator of the user .

It has been discovered that generating the personalized content based on the identity of the user determined from the biometric signature obtained using the client device improves the usability of the client device . More specifically the same instance of the client device can be used by multiple instances of the user . In addition determining the identity of the user from the biometric signature of the user is a more secure method of authenticating the user and generating the personalized content based on the biometric signature reduces the likelihood of unauthorized access to content not intended for a particular instance of the user .

As a more specific example the personalization module can generate the personalized content based on the heart rate reading the temperature reading of the user or a combination thereof. In addition the personalization motion can generate the personalized content by displaying the heart rate reading the temperature reading or a combination thereof on a display interface of the target device . Moreover the personalization module can generate the target setting based on the biometric indicator of the user the device movement or a combination thereof. The personalization module can generate the target setting by establishing the target connection with an occupancy system such as a thermostat a heating unit a cooling unit or a combination thereof.

For example the personalization module can generate the target setting by increasing or decreasing a temperature setting of the thermostat. As an additional example the personalization module can generate the target setting by turning on or off the heating unit the cooling unit or a combination thereof. As a more specific example the client device can be a watch type device and the electronic system can detect the user has finished a workout based on the heart rate reading the temperature reading the device movement or a combination thereof. In this example the personalization module can generate the target setting to accommodate the elevated instances of the heart rate and the body temperature of the user . More specifically the personalization module can establish the target connection with an instance of the target device representing a cooling unit to turn on the cooling unit.

It has been discovered that generating the personalized content based on the biometric indicator of the user improves the user experience of the client device . More specifically the user can adjust usage of the client device in a particular mode such as the game mode based on a change in the biometric indicator such as the heart rate the body temperature or a combination thereof of the user .

The personalization module can be part of the first software the second software or a combination thereof. The first control unit can execute the first software the second control unit can execute the second software or a combination thereof to generate the personalized content .

Moreover the personalization module can also communicate the personalized content between devices through the first communication unit the second communication unit or a combination thereof.

Referring now to therein is shown an exemplary flow chart of a method of operation of an electronic system of in a further embodiment. In one example embodiment the electronic system can implement the control flow of .

The exemplary flow chart can include determining the physical configuration of based on the sensor reading of in a box . The electronic system can use the configuration module of to determine the physical configuration . The exemplary flow chart can further include determining the device location of for establishing the device proximity of to the target device of in a box . The electronic system can use the location module of to determine the device location .

The exemplary flow chart can further include generating the operational mode of based on the physical configuration and the device proximity in a block . The electronic system can use the operational module of to generate the operational mode . The exemplary flow chart can further include sending the input signal of for interacting with the target device through the client device of in a block . The electronic system can use the target module of to send the input signal .

The exemplary flow chart can further include determining the biometric signature of for recognizing the identity of at the client device in a block . The electronic system can use the biometric module of to determine the biometric signature . The exemplary flow chart can further include identifying the touchless gesture for controlling the first user interface of of the target device based on the acoustic signal transmitted from the client device in a block . The electronic system can use the operational module to identify the touchless gesture .

The exemplary flow chart can further include tracking the temperature reading of the heart rate reading of or a combination thereof at the client device in a block . The electronic system can use the biometric module to track the temperature reading the heart rate reading or a combination thereof. The exemplary flow chart can further include generating the unlock signal of the wake up signal of or a combination thereof in a block . The electronic system can use the access module of to generate the unlock signal the wake up signal or a combination thereof.

The exemplary flow chart can further include generating the personalized content of for displaying on the target device based on the usage context of in a block . The electronic system can use the personalization module of to generate the personalized content . The exemplary flow chart can further include generating the target setting of the personalized content or a combination thereof based on the temperature reading the heart rate reading or a combination thereof at the target device in a block . The electronic system can use the personalization module to generate the target setting the personalized content or a combination thereof.

The exemplary flow chart can further include generating the haptic feedback of through the client device for communicating the target response of from the target device in a block . The electronic system can use the target module to generate the haptic feedback .

The modules described herein can be hardware implementation or hardware accelerators including passive circuitry active circuitry or both in the first control unit of the second control unit of or a combination thereof. The modules can also be hardware implementation or hardware accelerators including passive circuitry active circuitry or both within the first device the second device or a combination thereof but outside of the first control unit the second control unit or a combination thereof.

For illustrative purposes the various modules have been described as being specific to the first device the second device or a combination thereof. However it is understood that the modules can be distributed differently. For example the various modules can be implemented in a different device or the functionalities of the modules can be distributed across multiple devices. Also as an example the various modules can be stored in a non transitory memory medium.

As a more specific example one or more modules described above can be stored in the non transitory memory medium for distribution to a different system a different device a different user or a combination thereof. Also as a more specific example the modules described above can be implemented or stored using a single hardware unit such as a chip or a processor or across multiple hardware units.

The modules described in this application can be stored in the non transitory computer readable medium. The first storage unit of the second storage unit of or a combination thereof can represent the non transitory computer readable medium. The first storage unit the second storage unit or a combination thereof or a portion therein can be removable from the first device the second device or a combination thereof. Examples of the non transitory computer readable medium can be a non volatile memory card or stick an external hard disk drive a tape cassette or an optical disk.

The resulting method process apparatus device product and or system is straightforward cost effective uncomplicated highly versatile accurate sensitive and effective and can be implemented by adapting known components for ready efficient and economical manufacturing application and utilization. Another important aspect of the embodiment of the present invention is that it valuably supports and services the historical trend of reducing costs simplifying systems and increasing performance. These and other valuable aspects of the embodiment of the present invention consequently further the state of the technology to at least the next level.

While the invention has been described in conjunction with a specific best mode it is to be understood that many alternatives modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the aforegoing description. Accordingly it is intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications and variations that fall within the scope of the included claims. All matters set forth herein or shown in the accompanying drawings are to be interpreted in an illustrative and non limiting sense.

