---

title: Systems and methods for providing program suggestions in an interactive television program guide
abstract: An interactive television program guide application is provided that queries a user regarding the user's interest in television programs and suggests television programs to the user based on the user's responses. The interactive television program guide application identifies a television program that is potentially of interest to the user. The interactive television program guide application then queries the user regarding the user's interest using questions that are formulated based on attributes associated with the identified television program. Using the user's responses to the questions, the interactive television program guide application identifies and suggests one or more television programs to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09191719&OS=09191719&RS=09191719
owner: Rovi Guides, Inc.
number: 09191719
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141201
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 165 209 filed Jun. 21 2011 now pending which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 703 989 filed Nov. 6 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 984 468 each of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety respectively.

This invention relates to television systems and more particularly this invention relates to interactive television systems such as interactive television program guide systems that suggest television programs to a user.

Cable satellite and broadcast television systems provide users with a large number of television channels. Users have traditionally consulted printed television program schedules to determine the programs being broadcasted at a particular time. As the number of available programs has increased various television program guides such as interactive television program guides have been developed to help users select television programs of interest.

In some known systems an interactive television program guide application allows a user to supply selection criteria which are used by the interactive television program guide application to select television programs that are of interest to the user. The selected television programs may be for example displayed for the user recorded on a personal video recorder or added to the user s favorite list. Interactive television program guide applications that select television programs for a user based on user defined selection criteria are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 706 121 5 353 121 and 6 133 909.

Usually the user of such known systems is required to specify a list of selection criteria and request a search based on the criteria to enable the interactive television program guide application to select television programs that are potentially of interest to the user. Such a process for providing a user with recommended programming can be tedious. Furthermore some users may not even be aware that an option exists to allow specification of such selection criteria.

Accordingly it would be desirable to provide an interactive television program guide application that automatically queries a user regarding the user s interest in various television programs to assist the user in selecting future television programs of interest.

In accordance with the present invention an interactive television program guide application is provided that automatically queries a user regarding the user s interest in various television programs. The interactive television program guide application uses the user s responses to suggest to the user television programs that are potentially of interest.

In some embodiments of the present invention the interactive television program guide application may monitor the user s television viewing pattern to identify a television program that is potentially of interest to the user. For example the interactive television program guide application may determine that the user s viewing pattern associated with a television program satisfies one or more predetermined criteria for identifying potential television programs of interest e.g. the user has continuously watched the television program for a time period that is greater than a predetermined time period . In making such a determination the interactive television program guide application may mark the television program as a potential television program of interest.

The interactive television program guide application may then query the user using questions that are formulated based on attributes associated with the identified potential television program of interest. For example the interactive television program guide application may determine from an attribute associated with the television program that the program is a movie having a sequel. In response to making this determination the interactive television program guide application may formulate a question to prompt the user to set a reminder for the sequel.

Using the user s responses to the various questions the interactive television program guide application may identify one or more television programs to suggest to the user.

Further features of the invention its nature and various advantages will be more apparent from the accompanying drawings and the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

An illustrative interactive television system in accordance with the present invention is shown in . Content such as television programming and digital music may be provided from programming sources to television distribution facilities such as television distribution facility using communications path . Programming sources may be any suitable sources of television and music programming such as television and music production studios or any other suitable source of programming.

Television distribution facility may be a cable system headend a satellite television distribution facility a television broadcast facility or any other suitable facility for distributing television and music programming to users. There are typically numerous television distribution facilities in system but only one is shown in to avoid overcomplicating the drawings.

Communications path may be a satellite path a fiber optic path a cable path or any other suitable wired or wireless communications paths or a combination of such paths.

Television distribution facility may be connected to various user equipment devices . Such user equipment may for example be located in the homes of users. User equipment may include user television equipment or user computer equipment .

User equipment may receive television and music programming and other information from television distribution facility over communications paths such as communications paths and . User equipment may also transmit signals to television distribution facility over paths and . Paths and may be cables or other wired connections free space connections e.g. for broadcast or other wireless signals satellite links or any other suitable communications link.

Any suitable communications scheme may be used to transmit data over paths and including in band transmissions out of band transmissions digital transmissions analog transmissions cable transmissions satellite transmissions cable modem transmissions over the air transmissions multichannel multipoint distribution services MMDS transmissions or any other suitable communication scheme.

If desired interactive television program guide application data may be distributed over an out of band channel on paths and or over an in band path such as the vertical blanking interval VBI . Advertising information may be distributed using any of a number of suitable techniques. For example text and graphics advertisements may be distributed over an out of band channel using an out of band modulator. Video advertisements may also be distributed in this way although large quantities of video information may be more efficiently distributed using one or more digital channels or data streams on paths and . Such digital channels or data streams may also be used for distributing text and graphics.

Data source may include a program listings database that is used to provide the user with television program schedule information such as scheduled broadcast times titles channels ratings information e.g. parental ratings and critic s ratings detailed title descriptions genre or category information e.g. sports news movies etc. information on actors and actresses running times or any other suitable information. Data source may also be used to provide advertisements e.g. program guide advertisements and advertisements for other interactive television applications real time data such as sports scores stock quotes news weather or any other suitable data. Although data source is drawn as an individual box in data source and the other system components of may be provided using equipment at one or more locations. Systems components are drawn as single boxes in to avoid overcomplicating the drawings.

Data source may provide program schedule information and other data to television distribution facility over communications path for distribution to the associated user equipment over paths and . Communications path may be any suitable communications path such as a satellite communications path or other wireless path a fiber optic or other wired communications path a path that supports Internet communications any other suitable communications path or a combination of such paths. Data source may provide program schedule information and other data to the user at user equipment over path communications network and path . Path may be a wired path such as a telephone line a cable path a fiber optic path a satellite path a wireless path a combination of such paths or any other suitable path.

User equipment devices such as user television equipment and personal computers may use the program schedule information to display program listings and information on digital music for the user. An interactive television program guide application or other suitable application may be used to display such information on the user s display.

The present invention is primarily discussed herein in the context of the interactive television program guide application. The interactive television program guide application may include any suitable software hardware or both used to implement the features of the present invention.

An on line program guide and other interactive television services may be provided using a server connected to communications network such as server . Server may receive program schedule information and other data from data source via communications path communications network and communications path . Paths and may be satellite paths fiber optic paths wired paths or any other suitable communications path. Communications network may be any suitable communications network such as the Internet the public switched telephone network a packet based network or any other suitable communications network.

User equipment may access on line program guide information and other information from server via communications path . User equipment may also access the on line program guide and other services on server via communications path television distribution facility and communications path . For example a cable modem or other suitable equipment may be used by user equipment to communicate with television distribution facility . Television distribution facility may communicate with communications network over any suitable path such as a wired path a cable path fiber optic path satellite path any other suitable communications path or a combination of such paths.

User equipment which may include user television equipment and user computer equipment may access the on line program guide and server using similar arrangements. User television equipment may access the on line program guide and server using communications path or using path television distribution facility and path . User computer equipment may access the on line program guide and server using communications path or using path television distribution facility and path . Paths and may be any suitable paths such as wired paths cable paths fiber optic paths wireless paths satellite paths any other suitable communications path or a combination of such paths.

Program guide application functions and the functions of other interactive television applications may be supported using server and other servers connected to communications network such as server . Interactive television applications may also be supported by servers or other suitable equipment at one or more service providers such as service provider . For example a home shopping service may be supported by a service provider such as service provider that has sales representatives order fulfillment facilities account maintenance facilities and other equipment for supporting interactive home shopping features. A home shopping application that is implemented using user equipment may be used to access the service provider to provide these features to the user. User equipment may access service provider via television distribution facility and communications path or via communications network and communications path . Communications paths such as paths and may be any suitable paths such as wired paths cable paths fiber optic paths satellite paths any other suitable communications path or a combination of such paths.

Another example of an interactive television application is a home banking application. A home banking service may be supported using personnel at facilities such as service provider . An interactive home banking application that is implemented using user equipment may access the home banking service via television distribution facility and communications path or via communications network and communications path .

If desired an interactive television application such as a network based video recorder or a video on demand application may be supported using server server or equipment at service provider . Video on demand content and video recorded using a network based video recorder arrangement may be stored on server or server or at service provider and may be provided to user equipment when requested by users. An interactive television application may be used to support the functions of a personal video recorder sometimes called a digital video recorder that is implemented using user equipment . Illustrative equipment that may be used to support personal video recorder functions include specialized personal video recorder devices integrated receiver decoders IRDs set top boxes with integrated or external hard drives or personal computers with video recording capabilities.

If desired applications such as the interactive television program guide application a home shopping application a home banking application a video on demand application game applications and other applications e.g. applications related to e mail and chat or other communications functions may be provided as separate applications that are accessed through a navigation shell application i.e. a menu application with menu options corresponding to the applications . The features of such applications may be combined. For example games video on demand services home shopping network based video recorder functions personal video recorder functions navigational functions program guide functions communications functions and other suitable functions may be provided using one application or any other suitable number of applications.

Moreover the interactive television program guide application the home banking application the home shopping application the network based video recorder and personal video recorder applications the video on demand application the gaming applications communications applications and navigational applications are only a few illustrative examples of the types of interactive television applications that may be supported by system . Other suitable applications that may be supported include news services web browsing and other Internet services and interactive wagering services e.g. for wagering on horse races and the like .

The interactive television application or applications that are used in interactive television system may be implemented locally on user equipment . The applications may also be implemented in a distributed fashion e.g. using a client server architecture in which user equipment serves at least partly and for at least some of the time as the client and a server such as server at television distribution facility server or other suitable equipment acts as the server . Other distributed architectures may also be used if desired. Some or all of the interactive television system features of system may be provided using operating system software or middleware software. Such operating system software and middleware may be used instead of or in combination with application level software. Regardless of the particular arrangement used to implement interactive television features related to program guides home shopping home banking video on demand Internet communications or any other suitable application program the software that supports these features may be referred to as an application or applications.

Illustrative user television equipment that is based on a set top box arrangement is shown in . Input output may be connected to communications paths such as paths and . Input output functions may be provided by one or more wires or communications paths but are shown as a single path in to avoid overcomplicating the drawing. Television programming and other information may be received using input output . Commands and requests and other information from the user may also be transmitted over input output .

Set top box may be any suitable analog or digital set top box e.g. a cable set top box . Set top box may contain an analog tuner for tuning to a desired analog television channel. Set top box may also contain digital decoding circuitry for receiving digital television and music channels. Both analog and digital channels may be handled together if desired. Multiple tuners may be provided e.g. to handle simultaneous watch and record functions . Box may be an integrated receiver decoder IRD that handles satellite television. If desired box may have circuitry for handling cable over the air broadcast and satellite content. Box may include a storage device e.g. a digital storage device such as a hard disk drive for providing recording capabilities. Box may also be connected to a recording device such as a video cassette recorder personal video recorder or other device or devices with storage capabilities.

Set top box contains a processor e.g. a microcontroller or microprocessor or the like that is used to execute software applications. Set top box may contain memory such as random access memory for use when executing applications. Nonvolatile memory may also be used e.g. to launch a boot up routine and other instructions . Hard disk storage in box or in recording device may be used to back up data and to otherwise support larger databases and storage requirements than may be supported using random access memory approaches.

Set top box may have infrared IR or other communications circuitry for communicating with a remote control or wireless keyboard. Set top box may also have dedicated buttons and a front panel display. The front panel display may for example be used to display the current channel to which the set top box is tuned.

Set top box may also have communications circuitry such as a cable modem an integrated services digital network ISDN modem a digital subscriber line DSL modem a telephone modem wireless modem or any other suitable communications circuitry for communications with other equipment. Such communications may involve the Internet or any other suitable communications networks or paths. If desired the components of set top box may be integrated into other user equipment e.g. a television or videocassette recorder .

Recording device may be used to record videos provided by set top box . For example if set top box is tuned to a given television channel the video signal for that television channel may be passed to recording device for recording on a videocassette compact disc digital video disk or internal hard drive or other storage device. Recording device may have communications circuitry such as a cable modem an ISDN modem a DSL modem a telephone modem or any other suitable communications circuitry for communications with other equipment. Such communications may involve the Internet or any other suitable communications networks or paths. The components of recording device may be integrated into other user equipment e.g. a television stereo equipment or any other suitable user equipment .

Recording device may be controlled using a remote control or other suitable user interface. If desired video recorder functions such as start stop record etc. and other functions for device may be controlled by set top box . For example set top box may control recording device using infrared commands directed toward the remote control inputs of recording device or set top box may control recording device using other wired or wireless communications paths between box and device .

The output of recording device may be provided to television for display to the user. If desired multiple recording devices or no recording device may be used. If recording device is not present or is not being actively used the video signals from set top box may be provided directly to television . Any suitable television or monitor may be used to display the video. In the equipment of and the other equipment of system the audio associated with various video items is typically distributed with those video items and is generally played back to the user as the videos are played.

Another illustrative arrangement for user television equipment is shown in . In the example of user television equipment includes a recording device such as a digital video recorder e.g. a personal video recorder PVR that uses a hard disk or other storage for recording video or may be a digital video disc recorder compact disc recorder videocassette recorder or other suitable recording device. Equipment of may also include a television . Input output may be connected to communications paths such as paths and . Television programming and other information may be received using input output . Commands and requests and other information from the user may be transmitted over input output .

Recording device may contain at least one analog tuner for tuning to a desired analog television channel e.g. multiple tuners may be provided . Recording device may also contain digital decoding circuitry for receiving digital television and music channels. If desired recording device may contain circuitry for handling both analog and digital channels. Recording device also contains a processor e.g. a microcontroller or microprocessor or the like that is used to execute software applications. Recording device may contain memory such as random access memory for use when executing applications. Nonvolatile memory may also be used to store a boot up routine or other instructions. The hard disk and other storage in recording device may be used to support databases e.g. program guide databases or interactive television application databases . The hard disk or other storage in recording device may also be used to record video such as television programs or video on demand content or other content provided to recording device over input output .

Recording device may have IR communications circuitry or other suitable communications circuitry for communicating with a remote control. Recording device may also have dedicated buttons and a front panel display. The front panel display may for example be used to display the current channel to which the recording device is tuned.

Recording device may also have communications circuitry such as a cable modem an ISDN modem a DSL modem a telephone modem a wireless modem or any other suitable communications circuitry for communications with other equipment. Such communications may involve the Internet or other suitable communications networks or paths.

If desired recording device may include a satellite receiver or other equipment that has wireless communications circuitry for receiving satellite signals.

Recording device of or recording device of may record new video while previously recorded video is being played back on television or . This allows users to press a pause button during normal television viewing. When the pause button is pressed the current television program is stored on the hard disk of digital video recorder . When the user presses play the recorded video may be played back. This arrangement allows the user to seamlessly pause and resume television viewing. Recording device and may also be used to allow a user to watch a previously recorded program while simultaneously recording a new program.

The set top box arrangement of and the digital video recorder set top box arrangement of are merely illustrative. Other arrangements may be used if desired. For example user television equipment may be based on a WebTV box a personal computer television PC TV or any other suitable television equipment arrangement. If desired the functions of components such as set top box digital video recorder a WebTV box or PC TV or the like may be integrated into a television or personal computer or other suitable device.

An illustrative remote control for operating user television equipment or suitable user computer equipment is shown in . Remote control may have function keys and other keys such as keypad keys power on off keys pause stop fast forward and reverse keys and any other suitable keys. Volume up and down keys may be used for adjusting the volume of the audio portion of a video. Channel up and down keys may be used to change television channels and to access content on virtual channels. Cursor keys may be used to navigate on screen menus. For example cursor keys may be used to position an on screen cursor indicator or highlight sometimes all generically referred to herein as a highlight or highlight region to indicate interest in a particular option or other item on a screen displayed by the interactive television application.

An OK key sometimes called a select or enter key may be used to select on screen options that the user has highlighted.

Keys may include a record key for initiating recordings. Menu button may be used to direct the interactive television application to display a menu on the user s display screen e.g. on television or or on a suitable monitor or computer display . Info button may be used to direct the interactive television application to display an information display screen. If the user has highlighted a particular program listing for example pressing the info button may direct the interactive television application to provide additional program schedule information related to that program listing e.g. a program summary actor information and any other suitable program schedule information .

Lock button may be used to modify access privileges. For example a parent may use lock button or on screen options to establish parental control settings for the interactive television application. The parental control settings may be time based settings e.g. to prevent a child from watching television during a particular time block such as from 3 00 PM to 5 00 PM . The parental control settings may also be used to block programming based on rating channel program title or any other suitable criteria. A locked or blocked program is typically not viewable until the interactive television application is provided with a suitable personal identification number PIN . Once this PIN has been entered the interactive television program will unlock the user s equipment and allow the locked content to be accessed.

Exit button may be used to exit the interactive television application or to exit a portion of the interactive television application. Guide button may be used to invoke the interactive television program guide.

The keys shown in are merely illustrative. Other keys or buttons may be provided if desired. For example a music button may be used to access music with the interactive television application. An edit button may be used to edit stored content e.g. to remove commercials remove portions of a video or edit any other suitable content . Alphanumeric buttons may be used to enter alphanumeric characters. A last or back button may be used to browse backward in the interactive television application e.g. to return to a previous channel or display screen . Video recorder function buttons such as a play button pause button stop button rewind button fast forward button and record button may be used to control video recorder functions local or network based in system . A help key may be used to invoke help functions such as context sensitive on screen help.

Illustrative user computer equipment is shown in . In the arrangement of personal computer may be controlled by the user using keyboard or other suitable user input device such as a trackball mouse touch pad touch screen voice recognition system a remote control such as remote control of or any other suitable user input device. Video content such as television programming and interactive television application display screens may be displayed on monitor . Television programming video on demand content video recordings played back from a network based video recorder and other information may be received from paths and using input output . The user may also send commands and other information used during interactions with the interactive television application and system over input output line .

Personal computer unit may contain a television or video card such as television tuner card for decoding analog and digital television channels and for handling streaming video content. Multiple video cards e.g. tuner cards may be provided if desired. An illustrative television tuner card that may be used may contain an analog television tuner for tuning to a given analog channel and digital decoding circuitry for filtering out a desired digital television or music channel from a packetized digital data stream. Any suitable card or components in computer unit may be used to handle video and other content delivered via input output line if desired.

Personal computer unit may contain one or more processors e.g. microprocessors that are used to run the interactive television application or a portion of the interactive television application.

Storage in personal computer unit such as a hard drive DVD drive CD drive or other suitable storage device or devices may be used to store video and other content. For example the interactive television application and personal computer unit may use this storage to provide the functions of a personal video recorder.

User equipment such as user television equipment and user computer equipment may be used with network equipment such as server server and equipment at service providers such as service provider of to provide network based video recording functions. Video recording functions may be provided by storing copies of television programs and other video content on a remote server e.g. server or server of or other network based equipment such as equipment at a service provider such as service provider .

Video recordings may be made in response to user commands that are entered at user equipment . In a personal video recorder arrangement the interactive television application may be used to record video locally on user equipment in response to the user commands. In a network based video recorder arrangement the interactive television application may be used to record video or to make virtual recordings on network equipment such as server or equipment at service provider in response to the user commands. The user commands may be provided to the network equipment over the communications paths shown in . The personal video recorder arrangement and the network based video recorder arrangement can support functions such as fast forward rewind pause play and record.

To avoid unnecessary duplication in a network based video recorder environment the system may provide network based video recording capabilities by using virtual copies or recordings. With this approach each user may be provided with a personal area on the network that contains a list of that user s recordings. The video content need only be stored once or a relatively small number of times on the network equipment even though a large number of users may have that video content listed as one of their recordings in their network based video recorder personal area.

The user television equipment and user computer equipment arrangements described above are merely illustrative. A more generalized embodiment of illustrative user equipment is shown in .

As shown in control circuitry is connected to input output . Input output may be connected to one or more communications paths such as paths and of . Television and music programming may be received via input output e.g. from programming sources servers or other equipment such as server service providers such as service provider and television distribution facility . Program schedule information for an interactive television program guide may be received from data source via input output . Input output may also be used to receive information from data source for other interactive television applications. The user may use control circuitry to send commands requests and other suitable information using input output .

Control circuitry may be based on any suitable processing circuitry such as processing circuitry based on one or more microprocessors microcontrollers digital signal processors programmable logic devices or any other suitable processing circuitry. Memory e.g. random access memory and read only memory hard drives DVD drives CD drives or any other suitable memory or storage devices may be provided as storage that is part of control circuitry . Tuning circuitry such as one or more analog tuners one or more MPEG 2 decoders or other digital video circuitry or any other suitable tuning or video circuits or combinations of such circuits may also be included as part of circuitry . Encoding circuitry e.g. for converting over the air or cable analog signals to MPEG signals for storage may also be provided. The tuning and encoding circuitry may be used by user equipment to receive and display or play or record a particular television or music channel or other desired audio and video content e.g. video on demand content or requested network based or local video recorder playback . Television programming and other video and on screen options and information may be displayed on display . Display may be a monitor a television or any other suitable equipment for displaying visual images. Speakers may be provided as part of a television or may be stand alone units. Digital music and the audio component of videos displayed on display may be played through speakers .

A user may control the control circuitry using user input interface . User input interface may be any suitable user interface such as a mouse trackball keypad keyboard touch screen touch pad voice recognition interface remote control or any other suitable user input interface.

An interactive television program guide having various interactive television program guide interface screens may be provided to assist a user in selecting television programs. Examples of the various interactive television program guide interface screens are described for example in Ellis U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 306 175 filed Nov. 25 2002 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

As the number of available television programs grows it becomes increasingly more confusing and burdensome for a user to select television programs that are of interest to the user. One approach to mitigate this problem is for an interactive television program guide application to suggest television programs to a user that may be of interest. For example the interactive television program guide application may suggest television programs to the user based on the user s previous television viewing habits. The interactive television program guide application may derive the user s viewing habits by for example identifying and categorizing those television programs towards which the user has shown interest.

In some embodiments of the present invention the interactive television program guide application may query the user as to the user s interests in television programs by using questions formulated based on those television programs towards which the user has shown interest. It will be understood that the term questions is not limited to textual queries but may include any suitable types of questions prompts options or any other suitable tool for soliciting user responses. As an example the interactive television program guide application may query the user regarding the user s preferences towards various actors in a television program using checkboxes. As another example the interactive television program guide application may prompt the user to add a television program to a favorites list using a user selectable button. As another example the interactive television program guide application may provide an opportunity for the user to record a television program using for example a personal video recorder PVR . As yet another example the interactive television program guide application may prompt the user to schedule a television program for recording to a PVR by for example allowing the user to add the television program to a recording schedule. The interactive television program guide application may use various other suitable questions to automatically query the user regarding the user s interest. Some suitable approaches will be discussed in more detail below.

In one suitable approach in response to determining that the user has shown interest towards a particular television program the interactive television program guide application may formulate questions based on various attributes of the television program. These questions may then be displayed to the user by the interactive television program guide application at a suitable time. The suitable time for displaying these formulated question may be automatically determined by the interactive television program guide application or may be determined by the user. In some embodiments of the present invention the interactive television program guide application may allow the user to initiate displaying of formulated questions by for example pressing a suitable button on a remote control e.g. remote control of . In some embodiments of the present invention the interactive television program guide application may allow the user to specify for example during setup suitable times for the interactive television program guide application to present formulated questions to the user.

Once the interactive television program guide application gathers responses to these questions it may subsequently use the responses to identify television programs that are likely to be of interest to the user. Ultimately these identified television programs may be recommended or otherwise displayed to the user as suggestions by the interactive television program guide application. The interactive television program guide application may automatically determine a suitable time for suggesting these television program to the user or the interactive television program guide application may allow the user to request for such suggestions. As an example the interactive television program guide application may allow the user to request for suggestions by for example pressing a suitable button on a remote control e.g. remote control of . In some embodiments of the present invention the interactive television program guide application may allow the user to specify for example during setup suitable times for the interactive television program guide application to suggest television programs to the user.

At step the interactive television program guide application determines that a television program is potentially of interest to a user. The interactive television program guide application may use various suitable approaches to determine potential television programs of interest. Some examples of suitable approaches will be described in detail below.

At step the interactive television program guide application queries the user regarding the user s interest in television programs using one or more tailored questions. The questions are formulated based on one or more attributes associated with the television program that has been identified as a potential television program of interest by the interactive television program guide application at step .

The types of information that may be provided by the attributes associated with a television program may include for example category type genre any other suitable information associated with the television program or any combination thereof. In some embodiments of the present invention additional attributes associated with for example a particular category type or genre of television program may also be identified. As an example for a television program in the movie category the interactive television program guide application may have access to additional attributes such as the cast members director producer storyline time period or any other suitable attribute specific to a movie. In some embodiments of the present invention the interactive television program guide application may also have access to relationship attributes that describe the television program s relationship with a past program a future program a related serial or any other suitable television programming. For example in connection with a past television program the interactive television program guide application may have access to relationship attributes that reveal any sequels episodes in a serial or any other suitable related television programs.

Once the interactive television program guide application gathers the user s responses to the questions the interactive television program guide application then identifies one or more television programs to suggest to the user at step that are based on the user s responses.

Detailed descriptions and examples of the various steps involved in identifying and suggesting television programs to a user based on queries using tailored questions will be discussed fully below.

The interactive television program guide application may use various methods to identify those television programs toward which the user has shown interest. For example the interactive television program guide application may take note of the various television programs that the user has watched. This approach however may prove to be inaccurate in evaluating user interest due to the large number of television programs that the user browses that are not necessarily of interest to the user. To improve upon this approach the interactive television program guide application may identify a smaller set of those television programs to which the user has shown more substantial interest.

In some embodiments of the present invention the interactive television program guide application may determine whether the user is casually channel surfing past a television program or whether the television program has actually captured the user s interest in a more significant manner. The interactive television program guide application may make such a determination for example by monitoring the amount of time that the user spends watching the television program.

As an example the interactive television program guide application may monitor the amount of time that the user spends watching a particular program in one continuous time period. The interactive television program guide application may then for example mark the television program that the user watches for a continuous period of time that is greater than a predetermined period of time as a potential program of interest. The interactive television program guide application may mark a television program as a potential television program of interest by for example inserting a flag into the data associated with the television program in a database e.g. program listing information stored in a database encoding such information into the datastream associated with the television program storing a listing of the television program in a potential interest list or using any other suitable approach to mark the television program so that the interactive television program guide application recognizes it as a potential television program of interest.

As another example the interactive television program guide application may monitor the cumulative time that the user spends watching a particular television program. The interactive television program guide application may compute the cumulative time by for example adding together the time periods that the user has spent watching the particular television program during a time period within which the user has also watched other television programs as opposed to continuously watching the particular television program as described above . If the cumulative time exceeds a predetermined period of time the interactive television program guide application may mark the television program as a potential program of interest.

As another example the interactive television program guide application may monitor when the user stops watching a television program e.g. when a commercial begins and whether the user returns to watching the television program e.g. after browsing through other programs . If the user returns to watching the television program the interactive television program guide application may mark the television program as a potential television program of interest. In some embodiments of the present invention the interactive television program guide application may treat turning off the television as an interruption that is similar to the commercial example described above. In response to a user turning the television back on the interactive television program guide application may determine the length of time that the television had been turned off. If the time period that the television had been off is short for example when compared to a predetermined period of time the interactive television program guide application may determine whether the user has returned to watching the television program that the user had been watching before turning off the television. If the user has returned to watching the same television program the interactive television program guide may mark the television program as a potential television program of interest.

The examples described above are merely illustrative of the type of approaches that may be used to identify potential television programs of interest. Any other suitable approaches may be used.

At step the interactive television program guide application determines whether the user s viewing pattern associated with a television program e.g. continuous viewing period cumulative viewing period or any other suitable viewing pattern indicator satisfies one or more predetermined criteria for identifying a potential program of interest.

If the user s viewing pattern satisfies one or more predetermined criteria the interactive television program guide application then marks the television program as a potential television program of interest at step .

Once the interactive television program guide application determines that the user has shown interest towards a particular television program using any suitable approach the interactive television program guide application may use various characteristics of the television program to assist in identifying other television programs that may be of interest to the user.

In some embodiments of the present invention the interactive television program guide application may formulate a series of questions in order to for example query the user regarding characteristics of the particular television program that may have made it interesting to the user. These questions may for example allow the user to add the television program or related television programs to the user s favorites list e.g. when the television program is a part of a series of programs allow the user to set reminders for the television program or related television programs confirm the user s interest in various attributes associated with the television program e.g. interest in a particular actor for use in making future programming recommendations to the user or obtain any other suitable information for identifying television programs of potential interest to the user.

The interactive television program guide application may formulate the questions displayed to the user by for example basing the questions on various attributes associated with the particular television program as described above. The various attributes associated with the particular television program may be predetermined by for example the distributor of the television program content creator or any other suitable source of the television program. The attributes associated with the television programs may be transmitted to the user equipment for example along with other interactive television program guide information.

Based on these predetermined attributes when the interactive television program guide application identifies a potential television program of interest the interactive television program guide application may formulate tailored questions to query the user regarding the user s interest in what have been identified as related television programs.

As an example the interactive television program guide application may determine from an attribute associated with a potential television program of interest that the television program is an episode of a serial. Upon making such a determination the interactive television program guide application may formulate a question that allows the user to add the serial to the user s favorite list. As another example the interactive television program guide application may determine from attributes associated with a potential television program of interest that the program is a dramatic movie starring a particular actor. The interactive television program guide application may then formulate a question to query the user regarding the user s preference for other television programs starring the same actor or for other dramatic movies.

In some embodiments of the present invention the interactive television program guide application may omit certain types of questions based on attributes associated with a television program. For example upon determining that an attribute associated with television program reveals that the television program is a dramatic movie having no related television programs e.g. sequels serials or any other suitable related television program the interactive television program guide application may avoid the formulation of a question that prompts the user to add the movie to the user s favorites list. Based on this attribute the interactive television program guide application may also determine that the user is not likely to want to view the same movie more than once and may therefore avoid prompting the user to set a reminder for future occurrences of the movie.

It will be understood that while the interactive television program guide application may not display certain questions to the user based on attributes associated with a particular television program the interactive television program guide application may nonetheless provide the user with the opportunity to request such options. For example the user may request to add a movie to favorites for example by pressing a menu button on the user s remote control e.g. remote control of to access favorites options provided by the interactive television program guide or using any other suitable request method.

Interest survey window may include for example an advertisement a list of one or more questions formulated based on various attributes associated with the television program displayed in video window directional key for accessing additional questions buttons and for submitting deferring and skipping selections respectively and any other suitable features. If the user selects button the interactive television program guide application may gather the user s responses to the questions for use in identifying television programs to suggest to the user. If the user selects button the interactive television program guide application may display interest survey window or any other suitable interface having the same questions at a later time. If the user selects button the interactive television program guide application may remove interest survey window from television screen and refrain from querying the user with the same questions again. In some embodiments of the present invention if the user closes interest survey window without answering any questions the interactive television program guide application may display interest survey window or any other suitable interface having the same questions to the user at a later time.

In this particular example the interactive television program guide application has omitted any questions regarding saving the movie displayed in video window to the user s favorites list. This is because one or more attributes associated with Braveheart indicate to the interactive television program guide application that Braveheart is a movie having no closely related television programs.

In the example of the interactive television program guide application has determined from one of the attributes associated with the movie that Mel Gibson is the starring actor in this movie. Accordingly the interactive television program guide application provides question in list to allow the user to indicate an interest in other television programs starring Mel Gibson. The user may confirm such an interest for example by setting toggle button to yes. This may be accomplished by placing highlight region on toggle button and then using directional arrows on a remote control e.g. remote control of to toggle to choice yes. The interactive television program guide application also queries the user with questions and through which the user may confirm interests towards other attributes associated with the movie Braveheart e.g. period epic Scotland or any other suitable attribute . The user may respond to these questions using toggle buttons and respectively.

Television screen containing an interest survey window is merely illustrative of such a display screen. Various other suitable arrangements may be used.

In the example of the interactive television program guide application has determined from an attribute associated with Monday Night Football that it is a recurring television program. Accordingly the interactive television program guide application has formulated and provided the user with question in the list of questions shown within interest survey window to enable the user to add Monday Night Football to the user s favorites list. In connection with this question the user may select whether to add the program to the favorites list at the present time at a later time or never using toggle button . If the user chooses yes the interactive television program guide application may add the program to the user s favorite list. If the user chooses not right now the interactive television program guide application may query the user again at another time. If the user chooses never indicating the user s lack of interest in this television program the interactive television program guide application may refrain from querying the user in the future. In some embodiments of the present invention in response to a user response of never the interactive television program guide application may refrain from querying about or assign a lower priority to similar television programs in the future.

In the example of the interactive television program guide application has also determined from other attributes associated with Monday Night Football that the game displayed for the user in video window is between the New York Giants and the New England Patriots. Based on this information the interactive television program guide application may formulate questions and to allow the user to indicate an interest in these two teams using toggle buttons and respectively. Also in this example the interactive television program guide application has determined based on a category attribute that Monday Night Football is a football event. Thus the interactive television program guide application additionally displays question in interest survey window to query the user as to the user s interest in other football events. The user may respond to question using toggle button .

Television screen containing interest survey window is merely illustrative of such a display screen. Various other suitable arrangements may be used.

In this example the interactive television program guide application has also identified through examination of the associated attributes that the serial casts actress Helen Hunt. Accordingly the interactive television program guide application provides the user with question regarding the user s interest in other television programs starring Helen Hunt. The user may confirm such an interest for example by setting toggle button to yes. 

Television screen containing interest survey window is merely illustrative of such a display screen. Various other suitable arrangements may be used.

As described above as the user watches television the interactive television program guide application may automatically determine if the current television program is a potential television program of interest. Once the interactive television program guide application identifies the television program as a potential television program of interest the interactive television program guide application may formulate questions associated with the television program as the user watches the program. In some embodiments of the present invention the interactive television program guide application may also formulate questions associated with the television program after the user has finished watching the television program. Suitable time for formulating questions associated with a television program may be automatically determined by the interactive television program guide pre determined by the content distributor determined by the user e.g. during setup or determined using any other suitable approach. The interactive television program guide application may then display the formulated questions to the user at a suitable time. For example the interactive television program guide application may display the questions to the user during the presentation of the television program immediately after the presentation of the television program during a commercial break in response to the user switching channels in response to the user turning on the television or at any other suitable time. Some suitable approaches for displaying the formulated questions to the user are described in detail below.

In one suitable approach the interactive television program guide application may display questions formulated in association with a particular television program when the user initiates interaction with the program guide during the presentation of the particular television program. The user may initiate interaction with the program guide by for example requesting display of the guide changing channels or using any other suitable approach. In another suitable approach the interactive television program guide application may display the questions to the user in response to the user initiating interaction with the program guide within a predetermined time period after the end of the particular television program. In yet another suitable approach the interactive television program guide application may automatically display the questions to the user at the end of the particular television program or at any other suitable time determined by the interactive television program guide application.

At step the interactive television program guide application identifies a suitable time for displaying to the user questions that have been formulated in association with a potential television program of interest using any suitable approach.

The interactive television program guide application then displays the questions formulated in association with the potential television program of interest to the user at step .

Once the interactive television program guide application has gathered the user s responses to the various questions the interactive television program guide application may assist the user in selecting television programs of interest in various ways. In some embodiments of the present invention the interactive television program guide application in response to the user invoking a favorites view of the guide e.g. a program guide view containing user favorites information including the user s favorites list may prominently display those favorite programs that are about to start. The interactive television program guide application may also provide to the user in the favorites view those suggested television programs that have been identified by the interactive television program guide application. For example the interactive television program guide application may have identified these suggested television programs by using the user s responses to questions previously displayed to the user.

Favorites screen may also include a suggested television program list . The interactive television program guide application may have identified these suggested television programs using at least partially for example the user s responses to questions previously displayed to the user. Suggested television program list may be sorted to prominently display those suggested television programs that are about to start e.g. at the top of the list .

The user may access additional favorite programs and additional suggested programs by scrolling down favorites list and suggested television program list using arrows and . Alternatively the user may access complete lists of favorite programs and recommended programs by selecting favorites list button and recommended button respectively.

In some embodiments of the present invention the interactive television program guide application may include in favorites screen options to provide the user with preview information on interesting upcoming television programs. In this particular example favorites screen includes coming up today button and coming up this week button to provide the user with such information. In response to a user selection of coming up today button for example the interactive television program guide application may refresh favorites screen to display to the user a list of television programs coming up on the present day that are in the user s favorites list having been identified as suggested television programs or both. Similarly in response to a user selection of coming up this week button for example the interactive television program guide application may refresh favorites screen to display to the user a list of television programs coming up in the current week.

In this particular example a previously watched button is provided on favorites screen . In response to the user selecting previously watched button the interactive television program guide application may display to the user a previously watched screen as shown in in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. Previously watched screen may be similar in layout to favorites screen of . However in place of the user s favorites list the interactive television program guide application may display a previously watched list of those television programs that the user has shown interest towards but has not yet added to the user s favorite list e.g. the user has previously selected not right now when asked whether the user would like to add the program to favorites .

The interactive television program guide application may prominently display on previously watched screen those television programs that are about to start. In this particular example the interactive television program guide application provides options and for the user to select whether to add any of these previously watched programs to the user s favorites list. If the user again chooses not right now the interactive television program guide application may keep the television program on previously watched list to be displayed to the user at a later time. However if the user chooses never or if the user ignores the television program on previously watched list for a predetermined period of time the interactive television program guide application may remove the television program from previously watched list .

Previously watched screen is merely illustrative of such a display screen. Various other suitable arrangements may be used.

In some embodiments of the present invention the interactive television program guide application may bring to the user s attention favorite and suggested television programs that are scheduled to air in or near a time frame. The time frame may be a time frame within which the user is currently browsing for example in the interactive television program guide listings.

At step the interactive television program guide application identifies one or more listings of favorites television programs suggested television programs or both that are within or near a user selected time frame. For example the user selected time frame may be the time frame that the user is currently browsing e.g. in a program guide . The interactive television program guide application then alerts the user to the one or more favorite television programs suggested television programs or both using for example a suggestion overlay such as suggestion overlay of step .

Suggestion overlay is merely illustrative of such a display screen. Various other suitable arrangements may be used.

The foregoing is merely illustrative of the principles of this invention and various modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

