---

title: Licensing using a cloud public-messaging infrastructure
abstract: In various embodiments, methods and systems for license-messaging using cloud public-messaging infrastructures are provided. A cloud public-messaging infrastructure supports license message communication between applications. The cloud public-messaging infrastructure may implement license-messaging that circumvents network control units that control communication to the network components. A license-messaging channel is initialized with an on-premise relay service using the cloud public-messaging infrastructure. A cloud-based relay service listens for a license request from the cloud-based application. The license request is pushed using the cloud public-messaging infrastructure such that the license request is pulled through the license-messaging channel via the on-premise relay service to the on-premise license server. A response to the license request is received at the cloud-based relay service, via the on-premise relay service using the license messaging channel, and forwarded to the cloud-based application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09594885&OS=09594885&RS=09594885
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09594885
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140306
---
Cloud computing platforms may offer building deployment and management functionality for different types of applications and services. In this regard existing applications may be migrated from on premise systems to cloud computing platforms. Some cloud based applications may be authorized for operation based on floating licenses usually supported by on premise license servers. Currently conventional licensing models are not effective in supporting licensing using on premise license servers for applications on cloud computing platforms.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used in isolation as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments of the present invention provide methods and systems for supporting license messaging using cloud public messaging infrastructures. A cloud public messaging infrastructure comprises a software construct that sits between applications allowing the applications to exchange messages. The cloud public messaging infrastructure may implement license messaging that circumvents network control units e.g. firewall network address translation NAT and other network protocols that control communication with network components. In one embodiment the cloud public messaging infrastructure further comprises a publicly accessible medium that facilitates communication between a cloud computing platform and an on premise platform. The cloud public messaging infrastructure may include a license messaging channel between a cloud based relay service and an on premise relay service generated using Application Programming Interfaces APIs of the cloud public messaging infrastructure.

In operation the cloud based relay service listens for a license request from the cloud based application. Upon detecting the license request from the cloud based application the cloud based relay service pushes the license request to the publicly accessible medium of the cloud public messaging infrastructure. The on premise relay service pulls through the license messaging channel the license request. The on premise relay service communicates the license request to the on premise license server. The on premise relay service receives a response to the license request from the license server. The cloud based relay service receives the response to the license request through the license messaging channel. The response is received from the on premise relay service using the publicly accessible medium. The cloud based relay service forwards the response to the license request to the cloud based application.

The subject matter of embodiments of the invention is described with specificity herein to meet statutory requirements. However the description itself is not intended to limit the scope of this patent. Rather the inventors have contemplated that the claimed subject matter might also be embodied in other ways to include different steps or combinations of steps similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover although the terms step and or block may be used herein to connote different elements of methods employed the terms should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.

For purposes of this disclosure the word including has the same broad meaning as the word comprising. In addition words such as a and an unless otherwise indicated to the contrary include the plural as well as the singular. Thus for example the constraint of a feature is satisfied where one or more features are present. Also the term or includes the conjunctive the disjunctive and both a or b thus includes either a or b as well as a and b .

For purposes of a detailed discussion below embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to an on premise platform and a cloud computing platform in particular a service bus implementation of a cloud public messaging infrastructure using relay services will be described. However license messaging using a service bus messaging infrastructure is merely exemplary and it is contemplated that the techniques described may be extended to other implementation contexts.

A cloud computing platform may span wide geographic locations including countries and continents. The service application components e.g. tenant infrastructure or tenancy of the cloud computing platform may include nodes e.g. computing devices processing units or blades in a server rack that are allocated to run one or more portions of a tenant s services and applications. When more than one application is being supported by the nodes the nodes may be partitioned into virtual machines or physical machines. The virtual machines or physical machines run each application concurrently in individualized computing environments. The computing environments support the resources and or operating systems specific to each application. Further each application may be divided into functional portions such that each functional portion is able to run on a separate virtual machine or physical machine.

Traditional software licensing models have met some challenges in cloud computing platform implementations of applications that utilize licensing. Conventionally in order for a user to get authorization to use a license several different techniques could be used. First a dongle solution where a hardware token is presented during execution of the application and features of the application are licensed based on the communication with the hardware token. Second a system fingerprinting solution where a hardware fingerprint e.g. CPU identification or other hardware identifiers are used to create a license key. And third a network license server may issue licenses to clients on demand.

With particular reference to network license servers that facilitate floating licensing or concurrent licensing one such implementation relates to a limited number of licenses for a software application shared among a larger number of users over time. When an authorized user runs the application a request for a license is sent to a license server. If a license is available the license server allows the application to run. Upon the expiration of a license period or when the application is no longer in use the license is reclaimed by the license server and made available to other authorized users. Licensing allows independent software vendors ISVs to control access to the software.

Current techniques that run a license server on premise at a private enterprise platform with the application running on the cloud in the cloud computing platform are significantly limited. For example the license server and a node in the cloud are typically protected by network control units. Network control units refer to hardware or software based constructs that control communication with network components. For example firewalls provide network security for controlling incoming and outgoing network traffic by analyzing data packets and determining whether they should be allowed through or not based on network policies. Similarly NAT is a network protocol that provides IP address information modification while data packets are in transit across a routing device in order to provide access to particular network components. The network control units e.g. firewalls and NATs impede the ability to communicate license requests between on premise license servers and cloud based applications requiring licenses.

A reliable service that works for all cloud computing sites is currently difficult to implement with conventional licensing methods. For example in a NAT supported platform an application does not have a fixed IP address to expose externally. Further even though it is possible to open firewall ports to allow access to applications open ports raise security concerns in addition to other issues. Also a solution to build a VPN between the on premise platform and the cloud computing infrastructure is complicated in that if applications have to reach multiple license servers in different places multiple VPN connections may be required. Procurement and maintenance of multiple VPNs is expensive. As such systems and methods that support cloud based applications using on premise license servers and account for circumventing network control units and further accommodate multiple license servers in different locations may simplify floating licensing.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a simple and efficient method of supporting license messaging between an on premise license server and cloud based applications. In particular a cloud public messaging infrastructure enables cloud based applications to use license messaging to get floating licenses from on premise license servers. The cloud public messaging infrastructure comprises a publicly accessible medium that facilitates communication between a cloud computing platform and an on premise platform. Embodiments of the present invention may exclude any changes to applications or license servers and in particular the way applications and license servers communicate with each other to request and receive licenses. Existing licensing agreements for applications can also be executed using features of the present invention. Users may work on applications using purchased perpetual licenses. Further the present invention may support cloud based SaaS software as a service applications that utilize floating licenses where a tenant of the SaaS service need not own cloud ready application licenses but merely implement a license server from an on premise platform.

The cloud public messaging infrastructure messaging infrastructure comprises a software construct that sits between applications allowing them to exchange messages. The cloud public messaging infrastructure further comprises a publicly accessible medium that facilitates communication between a cloud computing platform and an on premise platform. Communication through the messaging infrastructure may be through the application layer. In this regard the cloud public messaging infrastructure can facilitate license messaging between an application deployed in the cloud and a license server in an on premise private enterprise network. The messaging infrastructure may be implemented by way of example as a queue. A queue is a storage service for storing large number of messages. For example a queue can be accessed from anywhere via authenticated calls using HTTP or HTTPS. In this regard a queue may be used for license messaging. Queues are addressable using a URL format. A set of APIs may support the implementation of a queue used for license messaging. In particular endpoints and credentials may be configured using a storage connection string for accessing license messaging services. Endpoints in the on premise enterprise network and in the cloud computing platform may communicate license messages to facilitate licensing applications. A queue may be used as the messaging infrastructure for transferring messages between applications. Queues store license messages that may be read by any client e.g. on premise or cloud based who has access to the storage account.

The messaging infrastructure may in the alternative be implemented as a service bus. A service bus connects local firewalled on premise servers and data with applications in the cloud without requiring the opening of any inbound ports or otherwise change firewall and router configurations. The cloud public messaging infrastructure enables application components to securely communicate through firewalls by exchanging messages through an endpoint hosted in the cloud. An endpoint refers to an interface through which an individual instance of a service may be accessed. Application code communicates with services binding to the endpoints. Endpoints can be located behind NAT boundaries. In embodiments relay services as clients in on premise enterprise networks and a host in the cloud computing platform communicate for license messaging. Other variations and combinations of messaging infrastructures of cloud public messaging infrastructures are contemplated with embodiments of the present invention.

License messaging using the messaging infrastructure may further be facilitated by APIs. An API library that includes specifications for routines data structures object classes and variables may support the interaction between the on premise license server and the cloud computing platform. For example a credentialing routine may be integrated in the communications services component to support usernames and passwords via a particular messaging infrastructure e.g. service bus or queue for license messages. Similarly relay service functions such as initializing a license messaging channel listening for request pushing and pulling messages having data as described in more detail herein may be supported at both the on premise relay service and the cloud based relay service by APIs for communicating messages of actions taken during the license messaging. Any other variations and combinations thereof are contemplated with embodiments of the present invention.

An exemplary embodiment of the present invention may function as a license hub using license messaging to aggregate and relay application licenses from on premise floating license servers to cloud based applications. As such it is contemplated that embodiments of the present invention may further support multiple simultaneous license messaging channels. A plurality of floating license servers may be implemented in a plurality of different locations. Exemplary components of the present invention may further include the cloud public messaging infrastructure comprising a publicly accessible medium a cloud based relay service cloud based relay and a plurality of on premise relay services on premise relay . An on premise relay communicates to floating license servers and the publicly accessible medium. The cloud based relay communicates with the publicly accessible medium and the cloud based application. In this regard licenses can be relayed using the license messaging from the on premise license server to the cloud based application through a license messaging channel implemented using relay services and the publicly accessible medium. It is contemplated that the connection from the relay services to the publicly accessible medium may be spontaneous such that outbound license messaging from the relay services may be generated to circumvent network control units.

Accordingly in a first aspect of the present invention one or more computer storage media storing computer useable instructions that when used by one or more computing devices cause the one or more computing devices to perform a method for license messaging using cloud public messaging infrastructures are provided. The method includes initializing a license messaging channel with an on premise relay service using a cloud public messaging infrastructure. The cloud public messaging infrastructure facilitates communication between an on premise license server and a cloud based application. The method also includes listening for a license request from the cloud based application. The method further includes pushing the license request using the cloud public messaging infrastructure such that the license request is pulled through the license messaging channel to the on premise license server. The method includes receiving a response through the cloud public messaging infrastructure. The response is sent using the license messaging channel. The method also includes forwarding the response to the cloud based application.

In a second aspect of the present invention one or more computer storage media storing computer useable instructions that when used by one or more computing devices cause the one or more computing devices to perform a method for license messaging using cloud public messaging infrastructures are provided. The method includes receiving through a license messaging channel of a cloud public messaging infrastructure a license request for a cloud based application. The cloud public messaging infrastructure facilitates communication between an on premise license server and a cloud based application. The method also includes forwarding the license request to the on premise license server such that a response to the license request is acquired for the cloud based application. The method further includes communicating through the license messaging channel the response to the license request to the cloud based application.

In a third aspect of the present invention a system for license messaging using cloud public messaging infrastructures is provided. The system includes a cloud based component for initializing a license messaging channel with an on premise component using a cloud public messaging infrastructure. The cloud public messaging infrastructure facilitates communication between an on premise license server and a cloud based application. The cloud based component is further configured for receiving a license request from the cloud based application. The cloud based component is further configured for pushing the license request using the cloud public messaging infrastructure such that the license request is pulled through the license messaging channel to the on premise license server. The cloud based component is also configured for receiving a response through the cloud public messaging infrastructure. The response is sent using the license messaging channel. The cloud based component is further configured for forwarding the response to the cloud based application. The system also includes the on premise component configured for receiving through the license messaging channel the license request for the cloud based application. The on premise component is further configured for forwarding the license request to the on premise license server such that a response to the license request is acquired for the cloud based application. The on premise component is further configured for communicating through the license messaging channel the response to the license request to the cloud based application.

Having briefly described an overview of embodiments of the present invention an exemplary operating environment in which embodiments of the present invention may be implemented is described below in order to provide a general context for various aspects of the present invention. Referring initially to in particular an exemplary operating environment for implementing embodiments of the present invention is shown and designated generally as computing device . Computing device is but one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Neither should the computing device be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated.

The invention may be described in the general context of computer code or machine useable instructions including computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer or other machine such as a personal data assistant or other handheld device. Generally program modules including routines programs objects components data structures etc. refer to code that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may be practiced in a variety of system configurations including hand held devices consumer electronics general purpose computers more specialty computing devices etc. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network.

With reference to computing device includes a bus that directly or indirectly couples the following devices memory one or more processors one or more presentation components input output ports input output components and an illustrative power supply . Bus represents what may be one or more busses such as an address bus data bus or combination thereof . Although the various blocks of are shown with lines for the sake of clarity in reality delineating various components is not so clear and metaphorically the lines would more accurately be grey and fuzzy. For example one may consider a presentation component such as a display device to be an I O component. Also processors have memory. We recognize that such is the nature of the art and reiterate that the diagram of is merely illustrative of an exemplary computing device that can be used in connection with one or more embodiments of the present invention. Distinction is not made between such categories as workstation server laptop hand held device etc. as all are contemplated within the scope of and reference to computing device. 

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Computer storage media excludes signals per se.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory. The memory may be removable non removable or a combination thereof. Exemplary hardware devices include solid state memory hard drives optical disc drives etc. Computing device includes one or more processors that read data from various entities such as memory or I O components . Presentation component s present data indications to a user or other device. Exemplary presentation components include a display device speaker printing component vibrating component etc.

I O ports allow computing device to be logically coupled to other devices including I O components some of which may be built in. Illustrative components include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner printer wireless device etc.

With additional reference to a block diagram depicting an exemplary cloud public licensing messaging system suitable for use in embodiments of the invention is described. Generally the cloud public licensing messaging system illustrates an environment for supporting license messaging using cloud public messaging infrastructures. Embodiments of the present invention also provide a system and method of aggregating licenses of different applications to serve multiple deployments of different applications in the cloud computing platform based on license messaging through a cloud public messaging infrastructure. Among other components not shown the cloud public licensing messaging system generally includes a cloud computing platform a cloud public messaging infrastructure applications client computing device on premise platforms license servers all in communication with one another via a network not shown .

With continued reference to the network may include without limitation one or more local area networks LANs and or wide area networks WANs . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet. The cloud computing platform and the on premise platforms may each include several components not shown for supporting services and applications in each or both platforms. For example components that facilitate floating licensing for a cloud based application the cloud based application requires a license from an on premise license server. Each of the systems may be linked together by the network backbone spanning to multiple on premise platforms each supporting one or more license servers for cloud based applications. The types of applications supported on these platforms are not intended to limit the scope of embodiments of the present invention in any way.

In some embodiments one or more of the illustrated components modules may be implemented as stand alone applications. Any number of client computing devices license servers and cloud computing platforms may be employed in the computing system within the scope of embodiments of the present invention. Each may comprise a single device interface or multiple devices interfaces cooperating in a distributed environment. For instance the cloud computing platform may comprise multiple devices and or modules arranged in a distributed environment that collectively provide the functionality of the cloud computing platform described herein.

As used herein the phrase on premise platform is not meant to be limiting but may encompass a number of applications and service systems on a private enterprise network that facilitate floating licensing between an on premise license server and a cloud based application. Additionally other components modules not shown also may be included within the on premise platforms and the cloud computing platform . For example the cloud computing platform is configured to allocate virtual machines within a data center for use by a service application. The cloud computing platform also may be a public cloud a private cloud or a dedicated cloud. The cloud computing platform may include a data center configured to host and support operation of endpoints in a particular service application. The phrase application or service as used herein broadly refers to any software or portions of software that run on top of or accesses storage locations within the datacenter. In one embodiment one or more of the endpoints may represent the portions of software component programs or instances of roles that participate in the service application.

It should be understood that this and other arrangements described herein are set forth only as examples. Other arrangements and elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions can be used in addition to or instead of those shown and some elements may be omitted all together. Further many of the elements described herein are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components and in any suitable combination and location. Various functions described herein as being performed by one or more entities may be carried out by hardware firmware and or software. For instance various functions may be carried out by a processor executing instructions stored in memory.

A cloud computing platform e.g. cloud computing platform acts to store data or run service applications e.g. applications in a distributed manner. For instance the cloud computing platform functions to run one or more portions of tenants applications. The cloud computing platform includes cloud public messaging infrastructure . The cloud computing platform also includes applications that may be accessed using computing devices e.g. client computing devices . Client computing devices may include any type of computing device such as the computing device described with reference to for example. The client computing devices may be used directly by users to operate applications running on the cloud computing platform . It is contemplated that the client computing devices trigger license messaging for obtaining a license to use a cloud based application as described herein. For example the client computing devices may initiate a request for a license e.g. a floating license based on accessing a cloud based application on the cloud computing platform . License messaging may in the alternative be triggered in the cloud computing platform upon the client computing devices accessing the applications . Any and all such variations and combinations of a client computing device accessing a cloud based application on a cloud computing platform to trigger license messaging or a cloud computing platform triggering license messaging are contemplated within the scope of embodiments of the present invention.

The cloud computing platform is further configured to deploy manage monitor and maintain several different types of components that facilitate license messaging. For example the cloud computing platform may support the cloud public messaging infrastructure for communicating with an on premise platform license server. In particular the cloud public messaging infrastructure comprises a publicly accessible medium e.g. public accessible medium that facilitates communication between a cloud computing platform and an on premise platform. The cloud public messaging infrastructure also functions as a license hub using license messaging to aggregate and relay application licenses from on premise floating license servers to cloud based applications. For example the cloud computing infrastructure as a license hub may aggregate individual licenses for each application based on license messaging channels . It is contemplated that each license messaging channel may correspond to a particular application. In the alternative a license messaging channel may exist such that each application pulls a license message from the messaging channel that corresponds to the application. As such the license hub supports multiple simultaneous license messaging channels with which a plurality of floating license servers may be implemented in a plurality of different locations.

The cloud public messaging infrastructure may refer to a software construct that sits between applications allowing the applications to exchange messages. In this regard implementing the cloud public messaging infrastructure may be accomplished while excluding any changes to the cloud based applications or on premise license servers. For example the applications and license servers communicate as usual while the cloud public messaging infrastructure executes steps of the present invention to facilitate concurrent licensing. The messaging infrastructure may comprise a publicly accessible medium that allows on premise components e.g. license servers to communicate via license messaging with cloud computing platform components. A messaging infrastructure may circumvent network control units by communicating using the application layer.

With continued reference to illustrates a plurality of on premise platforms e.g. on premise platforms each having a license server e.g. license servers . License servers are generally configured for granting and imposing limitations on software use based on a licensing agreement. The license servers support floating licensing based on license requests using license messaging. License messaging comprises messages sent from applications as requests and responses e.g. license messaging requests and responses received from license servers using the cloud public messaging infrastructure . License messaging using the cloud public messaging infrastructure may be implemented using the publicly accessible medium and a routing service that establishes an outbound connection through a license messaging channel such that the license messages are allowed to circumvent network control units e.g. network control units . Network control units by way of example include firewalls and NAT protocols that would otherwise prevent communication with the license servers .

In operation license servers communicate responses through the cloud public messaging infrastructure in response to license requests from their corresponding applications. License requests are also communicated through the cloud public messaging infrastructure from applications in the cloud computing platform. The license requests may be triggered based on client computing devices accessing a cloud based application. The response may comprise a grant of a license to the requesting cloud based application. The response may also comprise a denial of a license to the requesting cloud based application. It is contemplated that the response may include the grant or denial and additional data associated with the license request. License messaging to communicate responses may further be facilitated by a communication service e.g. services discussed in more detail below implemented on the on premise platforms. A response is based on the license server evaluating one or more license agreements for granting and limiting access to the license server supporting cloud based applications. In embodiments the license agreements may explicitly permit cloud based applications to access on premise license servers through a cloud public messaging infrastructure. Any other variations and combination of responses the generation thereof and license agreements are contemplated with embodiments of the present invention.

With reference to an exemplary relay based illustration of a method for license messaging using cloud public messaging infrastructures is provided. In particular license messaging may be implemented for supporting a plurality of applications e.g. applications in conjunction with the cloud public messaging infrastructure . A client computing device may provide access to any or all of the applications . The cloud public messaging infrastructure comprises a software construct that sits between applications allowing the applications to exchange messages. In this regard the cloud public messaging infrastructure may include components in both a cloud computing platform and an on premise platform that facilitate license messaging. In particular specific types of components for implementing functions of the present invention may depend on a selected cloud public messaging infrastructure. In embodiments the cloud public messaging infrastructure comprises a publicly accessible medium not shown that facilitates communication between platforms. The publicly accessible medium allows on premise components e.g. license servers to communicate via license messaging with cloud computing platform components. In addition the cloud public messaging infrastructure functioning as a license hub supports a plurality of license relay channels e.g. relay channels for cloud based applications .

The cloud public messaging infrastructure may further function as a license hub in that the messaging infrastructure generates license channels and aggregates licenses of different applications to service multiple deployments of different applications in the cloud. For example the cloud public messaging infrastructure generates a license messaging channel for license messaging between applications and a license server on an on premise platform e.g. on premise platform and license server . The license messaging channel between the license server and a the cloud based application supports license messaging messages communicated through the license messaging channel while circumventing network control units e.g. network control unit associated with the an on premise platform of the on premise license server and a cloud computing platform of the cloud based application. It is contemplated that the client computing device triggers license messaging for obtaining a license to use a cloud based application by accessing one of the applications .

In an exemplary embodiment a cloud based relay service e.g. app 2 relay service and an on premise relay service e.g. app 2 relay service are used in generating the license messaging channels. Upon initializing the license messaging channel the relay service may open a transmission control protocol TCP port in the cloud to listen for requests from the cloud based applications within the cloud. The TCP port may remain active for listening for a predetermined period of time or it may be open and closed based on a predetermined trigger. Other variations and combinations of initializing and terminating listening on the TCP port are contemplated with embodiments of the present invention. It is further contemplated that a plurality of individual license messaging channels may be configured to support corresponding applications.

Upon detecting a license request from a cloud based application the relay service pushes the license request to cloud public messaging infrastructure e.g. a public accessible medium . The cloud public messaging infrastructure functions as a publicly accessible medium to facilitate communication between the cloud computing platform components and the on premise platform components. The on premise relay service pulls from the publicly accessible medium through the license messaging channel the license request circumventing the network control unit . The on premise relay service communicates the license request to the license server . The license server communicates a response to the license request via the on premise relay service . The response may comprise a grant of a license to the requesting cloud based application. The response may also comprise a denial of a license to the requesting cloud based application. It is contemplated that the response may include the grant or denial and additional data associated with the license request. The cloud based relay service receives the response to the license request through the cloud public messaging infrastructure operating as a publicly accessible medium. The cloud based relay service then forwards the response to the license request to the cloud based application.

In another exemplary embodiment the cloud public messaging infrastructure may be implemented by way of example as a queue. A queue is a storage service for storing large number of messages. For example a queue can be accessed from anywhere via authenticated calls using HTTP or HTTPS. In this regard a queue may be used for license messaging. Queues are addressable using a URL format. A set of APIs may support the implementation of a queue used for license messaging. In particular endpoints and credentials may be configured using a storage connection string for accessing license messaging services. Endpoints in the on premise enterprise network and in the cloud computing infrastructure may communicate license messages to facilitate licensing applications. A queue may be used as the messaging infrastructure for transferring messages between applications or services. Queues store license messages that may be read by any client e.g. on premise or cloud based who has access to the storage account.

Turning now to a flow diagram is provided that illustrates a method for license messaging using cloud public messaging infrastructures. At block a license messaging channel with an on premise relay service is initialized. The license messaging channel is initialized using a cloud public messaging infrastructure. The cloud public messaging infrastructure comprising the license messaging channel facilitates communication between an on premise license server and a cloud based application. At block a license request from the cloud based application is listened for. The license request is listened for through a TCP port and opened for communication between the application and the cloud pubic messaging infrastructure. At block the license request is pushed using the cloud public messaging infrastructure such that the license request is pulled through the license messaging channel to the on premise license server. The cloud public messaging infrastructure comprises a publicly accessible medium for facilitating communication with the on premise license server. At block a response is received through the cloud public messaging infrastructure. The response is sent using the license messaging channel. At block the response is forwarded to the cloud based application.

Turning now to a flow diagram is provided that illustrates a method for license messaging using cloud public messaging infrastructures. At block a license request for a cloud based application is received through a license messaging channel. The license messaging channel facilitates communication between an on premise license server and a cloud based application using a cloud public messaging infrastructure. At block the license request is forwarded to the on premise license server such that a response to the license request is acquired for the cloud based application. At block the response to the license request is communicated to the cloud based application through the license messaging channel.

From the foregoing it will be seen that this invention is one well adapted to attain all the ends and objects hereinabove set forth together with other advantages obvious and inherent to the structure. It will be understood that certain features and sub combinations are of utility and may be employed without reference to other features or sub combinations. This is contemplated by and is within the scope of the claims.

