---

title: Analyzing facial recognition data and social network data for user authentication
abstract: Tools, strategies, and techniques are provided for evaluating the identities of different entities to protect business enterprises, consumers, and other entities from fraud by combining biometric activity data with facial recognition data for end users. Risks associated with various entities can be analyzed and assessed based on a combination of user liveliness check data, facial image data, social network data, and/or professional network data, among other data sources. In various embodiments, the risk assessment may include calculating an authorization score or authenticity score based on different portions or combinations of the collected and processed data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09147117&OS=09147117&RS=09147117
owner: Socure Inc.
number: 09147117
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140611
---
Identity fraud online is increasing dramatically and continues to be problematic for legitimate consumers and enterprises engaging in online and offline transactions. Consumer fraud costs are rising and business costs are also increasing at all levels due to this fraudulent activity. Business costs include but are not limited to lost revenue reputation loss additional resource consumption in terms of labor and review of security procedures and potential regulatory fines and compensation among many other types of costs and liabilities. With the advent of the Internet and the rise of social networks more information is being created today than has ever been created previously in the history of our society. Unfortunately the ease of availability of personal information freely shared through networked media makes it relatively easy for hackers and people committing fraud to steal user credentials and identity information. This puts consumers merchants and financial institutions at risk on a global basis.

Despite these problems it is essential for many enterprises to have and maintain an online presence in connection with their business operations. Interacting with users from multiple geographic locations access devices and or other access points is typically a requirement for any organization performing or facilitating transactions with users in an online environment. From expanding the reach of an organization in its industry to promoting professional expertise in a field transactions have to be effectively and efficiently performed through networked media. It is difficult for organizations enterprises or professionals to conduct their affairs without a solidly established and well cultivated online presence.

In addressing the foregoing issues the inventors have recognized a need for more effective computer implemented tools strategies and techniques that can help to authenticate users of computer based and online systems and to reduce the potential for malicious or fraudulent online activity.

The inventors have also recognized the dissonance that can arise between confirming a person s online identity with data and using biometric confirmation for identifying a real person from a fake person. The inventors have discovered tools and techniques that leverage and combine the best aspects of different methods for online authentication and validation of individuals.

In various embodiments the invention offers tools strategies and techniques for evaluating the identities of different entities to protect individual consumers end users business enterprises and other organizations from social identity theft and fraud. Risks associated with other entities can be assessed and processed based on analysis of facial recognition data social networking data and or a combination of multiple data sources for example.

In various embodiments the client system may be associated with an entity or enterprise involved in many different areas of online transaction or authorization including but not limited to financial services payments electronic commerce gaming merchant services government services and or many other kinds of computer systems or services requiring identity verification or user authentication.

The facial evaluation system can be programmed to generate an authorization score which can be applied to approve or deny the end user for a specific transaction e.g. by value by item by service and or by risk level . For example users with a comparatively lower but still positive authorization score may be allowed to continue with a transaction involving comparatively lower risk while users with a comparatively higher authorization score may be allowed to engage in comparatively higher value and higher risk transactions. In certain embodiments an authenticity score calculated by a risk evaluation system may be used and combined with user information to enhance complement or replace an authorization score calculated by the facial evaluation system for example.

The facial recognition application can be employed to assess the identity of the user by capturing data representative of interactions between the user and the application which can be executed on an access device of the end user for example. In one example the interaction between the user and the facial recognition application may include presenting a text portion to be read by the user . The application can be programmed to capture data indicative of the liveliness of the user as the user reads the presented text for example. The liveliness analysis may involve determining whether the lips of the user are moving sufficiently synchronously with the text as the text is read on a screen display for example and or determining if one or both eyes of the user are sufficiently tracking the text as it moves across a screen display generated by the application . It can be seen that executing such a liveliness check analysis through the application may reduce or eliminate the need for a user to conduct localized device training of facial image data to familiarize the user with a particular access device for example. The application may also gather a unique identifier or other identity data associated with the user e.g. a device serial number or an e mail address and or image data associated with the user that can be used to generate a facial vector map for example.

The results of the liveliness analysis the unique identifier data and or the user image data may be communicated to the facial evaluation system for further processing. For example the unique identifier and or the facial vector map can be compared against data stored in one or more data storage media associated with the facial evaluation system in an effort to confirm the identity or authenticity of the user . For example one or more elements of various photographic images stored in the database may be compared against the generated facial vector map and a score may be generated as a result of the comparison. An authorization score can then be calculated based on the processing performed by the facial evaluation system . In response to receiving the calculated authorization score from the facial evaluation system the client system may or may not complete a transaction or provide access to the user and or may request additional information regarding the user .

With reference to the facial evaluation system may be programmed to communicate with one or more kinds of risk evaluation systems to generate an authenticity score or other indications of the validity of a given user . For example if the authorization score calculated in connection with operation of the facial evaluation system is deemed insufficient by itself to validate or authenticate the user then an authenticity score calculated by the risk evaluation system may used in place of or as a complement to the authorization score. In certain embodiments an enhanced authenticity score can be calculated by combining an authorization score calculated by a facial evaluation system with an authenticity score calculated by a risk evaluation system . In one example achieving a predetermined threshold authorization score may indicate or trigger the need or desire to complement the authorization score with an authenticity score calculated by the risk evaluation system or vice versa . In another example if insufficient data is obtained by the facial evaluation system such as if the user opts out of the analysis then the risk evaluation system may be employed to attempt to authenticate or authorize the user .

Various embodiments of the invention may leverage camera technology for verifying both the actual presence of a user and a given user s identity. Occurring in tandem with the rise of reliance of online identity is the proliferation and use of various access devices in static and mobile forms that can take photographs record video and transmit video or visual data. Transmission destinations may include centralized networks such as social networks and decentralized networks such as one to one video chat services. When such image data are combined with other information including data from social networks for example an enhanced and more accurate technique for performing online identity verification or authentication emerges. It can be seen that this creates value for consumers enterprises and any group party or body that engages in online transactions. In various embodiments techniques for multi factor verification biometric identification and offline identity lookups can be advantageously leveraged and combined in different ways to promote confirmation of online identity.

It can be appreciated that the tools techniques and strategies represented by various embodiments of the invention described herein can be beneficial to various users businesses or other entities. In certain embodiments risk evaluation systems can be configured to scan aggregate and organize social networking data and other network data to generate a social graph that provides feedback through an infographic profile. In this manner the user can be alerted as to what data needs to be corrected or otherwise addressed. Users can employ the social graph as a feedback loop to remediate data privacy issues address vulnerability issues and perhaps improve scores derived from the social graph to obtain the best possible online resume. Through the evaluation system users can be informed when links on their network connections their friends network connections their business connections and or their professional connections represent a threat.

In various embodiments the invention may involve evaluating risk of financial fraud or identity theft by employing social graph and financial behavioral patterns for example. In various embodiments the invention can incorporate data related to social behavior into the mix of measures used to detect and avoid fraud which has the potential to reduce losses to financial institutions businesses individuals and other entities. In addition a consumer s experience can be improved by significantly enhancing the authentication process and reducing false positive friction.

In various embodiments the invention can provide a scalable solution and tools that businesses and individuals can use to protect the privacy of their data and to enhance their reputations in various online environments. Examples of these online environments include social networking sites e.g. Facebook Twitter etc. professional networking sites e.g. LinkedIn and or other web based or online environments. In certain embodiments the evaluation systems described herein may be implemented to combat the growing risk of identity theft and related fraud in a social and mobile device world. In certain aspects of the invention an authenticity score and associated algorithms can be provided as a robust anti fraud model that combines consumer social behaviors with spending patterns across credit debit and ACH transactions for example. In one example secure web services can be exposed that financial institutions may consume in their transaction flows to improve their siloed financial fraud risk models and thereby reduce fraud losses user experience friction and fraud remediation costs.

The access devices may include for example and without limitation desktop computer A laptop computer B televisions C and or mobile phones or gaming devices D among many other types of access devices . In certain embodiments the access devices may be provided as various kinds of camera enabled and network connected or connectable devices for example. The access device may include an electronic device enabled with an active camera network connectivity and storage capabilities to run customized applications and or a web browser. The client system may be comprised of one or more types of computer systems modules or other components programmed with computer executable instructions to communicate information with the access devices through a networked medium for example.

At step the client system may communicate information associated with the end user to the facial evaluation system for further analysis and processing of the end user information. In various embodiments the evaluation system may include one or more computer processors modules components or sets of instructions programmed to analyze facial or anatomical data. In certain embodiments the evaluation system may include one or more operatively associated data storage media programmed to store compare or retrieve data associated with local data storage media A or remote data storage media B containing information associated with various end users for example.

At step the facial evaluation system may cause a facial recognition application e.g. which may be a software development kit or SDK application to be initialized on an access device of the end user . In various embodiments the end user may be required to opt in to continue the verification process. At step the end user may interact with the facial recognition application . If the user opts out of the process however then execution of the facial recognition application may be halted. However such an opt out action by the end user may be recorded by the evaluation system and may be factored into calculating an authorization score and or authenticity score for the end user as indicative of potentially fraudulent activity. In various embodiments activation and execution of the application can occur through one or more types of messaging protocols used to communicate with any camera enabled communication device or access device . For example a suitable transport protocol may include SMS MMS TCP IP HTTP HTTPS or others.

With reference to a successful opt in by the user at step such as by selecting a start button A can execute the facial recognition application . In various embodiments the application may employ a camera B operatively associated with the access device for example. In operation the user can present anatomical features e.g. head and shoulders to the camera B for example to generate an image in a frame C to demarcate the face image of the user . When anatomical features of the user are sufficiently aligned within the frame C then a randomly generated phrase or sentence D can be displayed to the user . The application may be programmed to instruct the user to read the phrase D aloud after a countdown period for example such as approximately two or three seconds. The application may be programmed to record a video of the user saying the phrase D while recording facial features or other anatomical changes of the user during the recital of the phrase D. In various embodiments a progress bar E may reflect capture of a video loop including the facial data changes or other anatomical changes made by the user for example. In certain embodiments a pop up window F including various features of the application may be programmed to disappear after the video has been captured such as after acquisition of sufficient data for performing a liveliness check has been completed by the application .

At step the recorded facial recognition data and or other user information may be communicated to the facial evaluation system for further analysis. If the transmission of the recording has been successfully accomplished the application can be un initialized on the access device of the user . At step image data contained within the recording can be parsed and analyzed by the evaluation system for performing a facial confirmation analysis and or for performing a liveliness check based on user recital of the phrase D. In certain embodiments facial confirmation can be performed by comparing the face image data of the user with a known database of image data associated with probable users perhaps based on information provided by the client system from the user for example. Information used for the comparison may be derived from available sources such as social media networks public databases and or private online databases among other data sources A B. Liveliness can be checked by comparing the actual facial features or other anatomical features of the user shown in the video recording for example and matching or comparing changes in the facial features to an expected set of facial features associated with the phrase D recited by the user . In various embodiments the application may ask the user to interact with the camera B in a variety of ways to check for liveliness. For example user actions subject to such liveliness checks may include without limitation blink detection eye tracking head motion lip movement and or arm or hand gestures among other indicators of anatomical motion occurring within the time frame of the given video or animation segment.

In various embodiments data obtained from the liveliness check may be processed by the application on the computing device or may be transmitted to the facial evaluation system for processing and analysis. The analysis of the liveliness check may include applying a score along a spectrum ranging from not live to possibly live and then to live. In various embodiments the liveliness check analysis can be factored into one or more other authenticity scores for example generated by the risk evaluation system as described in more detail below . Information gathered on the access device may be compressed before transmission. This may occur via a method for compression common or uncommon new or standard as understood by those skilled in the art. The compression may occur in the form of encryption. After processing the information can be transmitted to the facial evaluation system via an encrypted communication. Encryption may occur on the data through the transmission method or both. The evaluation system may be programmed to obtain information from the access device and then decrypt the data for further analysis.

In various embodiments processing of image data to perform a facial confirmation analysis for example may include extracting image data associated with various facial features to create a facial matrix composition or facial vector map associated with the user . One or more key frames from the recorded video or animation may be extracted inspected and analyzed for matching the user to appropriate corresponding data which can be accessed by the facial evaluation system . In certain embodiments user profile information and other data communicated to the evaluation system can be looked up either through online sources B or from a local store A of relevant information. For example an algorithm may be programmed and executed to determine whether the face shown for the user is an appropriate face upon which to base a comparison. The system using a computer processor may extract relevant facial features from the given image. These features can be placed into a facial vector map for each image entered for analysis. This vector map may be stored and used in later searches performed by the system . The system can then compare the sent image vectors with the vectors of the relevant images found in the local and or online image search. In various embodiments the algorithm used for such facial confirmation analysis may be based partially or entirely on the Local Binary Patterns LBP method the Eigenface method and or any other suitable algorithm or method deep learning architecture neural network learning system or other method used for facial recognition known to those skilled in the art. It can be seen that the system can be programmed to use data from the access devices and user identity inputs along with the facial vector map data to compare against an index of known faces in the corpus of face data maintained or accessed by the system such as in the databases A B. A facial confirmation score may be generated based on comparison of the accumulated specific facial vectors. For example the facial confirmation score can be tied to a set of categories e.g. high medium low none etc. in response to a degree of correlation between different sets of image data or the score may be assigned as a numerical value within a range e.g. 0 10 .

As part of a request made by the client system or perhaps in response to a rule triggered in the facial evaluation system for example it can be determined that additional biometric information is required or desirable to assess the authenticity of the end user . For example a confirmation can activate the application through the facial evaluation system based on the results of or subsequent to performing an initial social based identity verification process with the risk evaluation system see below . Such activation may include connecting to a remote web site activating another specific application installed on the device and or executing another method for enabling camera input and transmission to interact with the end user . In various embodiments verifying transactions may be initiated by an appropriate validating facility perhaps through an authorized third party or through the evaluation system .

Referring again to at step the liveliness check score and or the facial confirmation score may be factored by the facial evaluation system to generate an authorization score. At step the facial evaluation system may communicate a response to the client system with an authorization score. In one example the authorization score may be between 0 and 10 with a variable scale to determine general levels of authenticity confirming that the user can be designated as authentic e.g. a score from 6 10 fraudulent e.g. a score from 0 4 or unknown e.g. a score of 5 . Based on receiving and reviewing the authorization score the client system may proceed with the transaction with the user may elect not to proceed with the transaction with the user or may request additional information. For example one or more authenticity scores generated by the risk evaluation system may be combined in various ways with the authorization score calculated by the facial evaluation system to yield an overall authenticity score for the user . The overall authenticity score may be communicated to the client system to assist with further deliberation regarding whether or not to engage in a transaction with the user .

As applied herein to various embodiments of the invention the terms Socure and Socure service may be used to refer to examples of methods systems processes algorithms and other tools structured or configured in accordance with various embodiments of the invention including facial evaluation systems and or risk evaluation systems described herein. illustrates one example of how a risk evaluation system authenticity score can be calculated. In various embodiments the Socure system s authenticity score item for a user can be a normalized weighted score computed based on an weighted factors about the user items and the user s connections items across multiple social networks professional networks or other networks such as Facebook Twitter LinkedIn etc. see items to which the user is linked and which are further linked to the Socure system. It can be appreciated that a variety of data may be obtained and processed which are related to such networks for example and without limitation contact information friends professional connections birth date timeline activity and many others. These data may be scored with a range or ranking of numerical values for example on various types of scales e.g. 1 to 10 in connection with the processing and calculation of the authenticity score.

For a user registered through the Socure system an algorithm processes the user s profile data item taking into account the private and public views of the profile attributes to identify sensitive attributes that may be exposed without the user s knowledge. For example a user s place of birth name of high school or favorite pet s name are attributes that are often used to reset forgotten passwords and that could be used to commit account takeover fraud.

The algorithm can process the user s activity feeds and timelines item calculating the frequency of posts including calculating a mean and standard deviation for the post frequency. These calculations may then be used to identify the user s burst usage pattern and establish a baseline. The algorithm can also check the identity of the accounts making posts to distinguish between the user s own posts versus posts from the user s connections for example. The algorithm may then classify each post into categories based on post content e.g. news item video photo etc. . The algorithm may also calculate the number of social interactions for each item posted e.g. likes shares retweets etc. . In certain embodiments the algorithm may also incorporate meta data about each post such as a location of a user when a post occurred to keep track of the user s frequently traveled locations.

The algorithm can be programmed to process the user s installed applications for the social networks item and the attributes of those applications. The profile data item activity data item and application data item may also be used to identify the user s vulnerability or exposure to security and privacy risks and or to generate alerts to help the user remedy the vulnerabilities in the social profiles. The algorithm may apply a social network specific model domain ontology for a fake account on each of the different types of networks and then compute a profile score for the user based on the positive and negative factors for the user s profile activities and applications to compute a user score.

The algorithm may also process data associated with the user s social connections including with the user s friends item family item and followers and peers item . The algorithm may be executed based on each social connection to score those connections. The algorithm may then normalize the score to arrive at a connections score.

The algorithm may compute an affinity score by computing the overlap between profile attributes activities applications and connections of the user and each friend to calculate the score distance between the user and each connection. The affinity score can be used to bias the algorithm and strengthen the authenticity of the user if the user shares strong connections or weaken the authenticity of the user if the user does not share many factors or data in common with their connections.

In certain embodiments the user score connections score and affinity score may be adjusted to make sure they are positive. Then the scores can be combined to yield an overall measure of authenticity for the user which can be provided as a score in the range of 0 to 1 for example. This score can be scaled as desired to fit a presentable score range by multiplying a scaling factor e.g. multiply by 100 and dropping any decimal remainder to yield an authenticity score for the user. In various embodiments the facial confirmation score and or the liveliness check score as calculated by a facial evaluation system for example can be combined in whole or in part with authenticity scores calculated by a risk evaluation system for example to yield an overall measure of user authenticity.

In various embodiments the algorithm can be configured to compare the user s authenticity score against average score ranges for clusters of people businesses or other entities with similar affinity scores for example. This can be used to determine a mean and standard deviation that can be applied to determine how accurate a score can be considered for a general Socure system user population thereby gaining an understanding of whether the score is trustworthy or an outlier. This data can be used to improve the fake user model for each network.

In various embodiments the Socure system can calculate and generate scores that indicate a degree of authenticity of the different entities participating in transactions and the risks they may pose with respect to fraud or money laundering for example. In certain embodiments the Socure system can process threats in real time across multiple social networks such as Facebook Twitter LinkedIn or other networks. The system can then process and store summary data about people and their friends or other entities in a secure database and batch processing system. shows examples of process steps that the Socure service may take in connection with a risk evaluation system to verify the authenticity of each user and their friends or other contacts. The Socure system can be based on the principle that users social network usage patterns and their interaction patterns with their friends or other contacts on those networks forms a unique biometric who you are signature for each user.

In various embodiments the Socure system can apply a social attestation model to verify if a user profile on a social network represents a real or fake person or entity. This analysis can be based on a combination of heuristics as well as statistical probability measures which take into account various attributes of the user s social network profiles timeline activities and or interaction with friends and family members in order to arrive at a semantic score for each user profile. In one example of this scoring system scores can graded from 1 to 10 semantically where a score of 10 indicates a high degree of authenticity real person and score of 1 means low authenticity fake person .

The Socure service can periodically refresh the authenticity score and summary data for each user based on the latest activity and profile information available. This may be accomplished by using the social network APIs for example. The Socure system may use the real time feed APIs of supported social networks to monitor the user subscribed accounts for any activity that is outside the user s normal usage pattern or usage patterns of people similar to the user. The Socure system may also scan the user s installed list of applications and or the user s security or privacy settings on various social networks to identify where private data may be leaked. In various embodiments the Socure system can be configured to generate alert notifications for the user based on the threats identified.

In various embodiments the Socure system may employ semantic or statistical machine learning techniques and algorithms to identify anomalous usage and threat patterns and or in conjunction with one or more heuristic rules defined in the system to generate new knowledge in the system autonomously. This can make the system smarter as the amount of user data processed by the system grows over time. As a user s authenticity grows or is improved the Socure system may allow the user to progress through multiple tiers of service to gain exclusive partner offers and rewards for example.

Enterprises such as banks insurance agencies credit card agencies merchants or retailers may use the Socure system s identity proofing solution on a transactional basis to fight against fraud in the form of identity theft fraud account take over fraud payments fraud money laundering fraud merchant fraud and or many other types of criminal activity. Enterprises also gain the benefit of reduction in false positives that exist in their proprietary risk and fraud models.

In various embodiments the Socure system exposes secure JSON REST and SOAP XML APIs for example for enterprises to call the Socure service on an as needed basis when certain types of transactions occur. The Socure system can provide an additive signal to enterprise proprietary system signals that indicate fraud or trust risk for example. The types of transactions that the Socure system may be configured to protect against include registration transactions login transactions and or payment transactions for example. In another example the Socure system can extend its model to other types of transactions that depend on identity proofing for non repudiation purposes based on customer needs. The Socure system s API calls can be secured for enterprises using federated identity and access management standards including SAML WS SEC WS FED and or XACML among others.

Various embodiments of the invention can be applied to payment service providers and their associated transactions for example. The Socure system can provide tools to verify the authenticity and integrity of plastic card mobile transactions in real time detection and resolution consumers and institutions mutual authentication and or online transactions transaction verification . The options offered to consumers to engage in financial transactions continue to grow and change almost daily. Accordingly the types and amount of information requested from and generated by consumers is also expanding. With the advent of financial technologies such as NFC mobile payments P2P lending social media payments and ACH less bank transactions new businesses and new threats have emerged. Various embodiments of the Socure system can be used to execute fraud detection software providing financial institutions with enhanced cost savings and increased ROI from their consumer based financial transactions. This can be accomplished by providing financial institutions with a social signal that offers a more expansive more relevant and more valuable data set than prior risk evaluation methods. The Socure system therefore employs a consumer s social graph to proactively protect social data financial data and personal data against fraud and identity theft.

Module includes an authentication and authorization services module. OAuth provides a method for clients to access server resources on behalf of a resource owner such as a different client or an end user . It also provides a process for end users to authorize third party access to their server resources without sharing their credentials typically a username and password pair using user agent redirections. Security Assertion Markup Language may be used in various embodiments. Module can be used to implement multi factor authentication services for the system. Multi factor authentication is an approach to security authentication that involves the user of a system providing more than one form of verification in order to prove their identity to gain access to the system. Multi factor authentication takes advantage of a combination of several factors of authentication. These factors may include verification by something a user is such as facial recognition or other form of biometrics something the user knows such as a password and or something the user has such as a smart card or a security token . Due to their enhanced complexity authentication systems using a multi factor configuration can be harder to compromise than others that use a single factor.

Module includes a social network services module which can be programmed to allow users to opt into the Socure service or system. A user may sign into the Socure system by using one or more social network identities.

Various data storage media can be provided to store data in association with operation of the system. The data storage media can be programmed for storage and retrieval of authentication and authorization data for example. Certain data storage media can be programmed for collecting and storing biometric data or biometric identifiers for example which are distinctive measurable characteristics used to label and describe individuals. Biometric identifiers are often categorized as physiological versus behavioral characteristics. A physiological biometric can identify a user by voice DNA hand print or behavior. Behavioral biometrics are related to the behavior of a person including but not limited to typing rhythm gait and voice among others.

Module can be programmed to execute threat management services for the Socure system. This module may be programmed to implement security and vulnerability management services that provide software tools for aiding in the discovery and sometimes removal of vulnerabilities in a computer system. These tools can provide an auditor with an overview of possible vulnerabilities present in the system.

Module can be used to initiate notification services through the Socure system. The notification services module offers a scalable server engine on which to run notification applications with multi server capability providing flexibility and scalability for deploying applications. The notification services module can help with developing and deploying notification applications that generate personalized timely information to subscribers or other users. The module can be applied in connection with designing coding and testing components that make up a robust notification services application such as notification scheduling failure detection retry logic time zone management notification grouping and queue management.

Module can be programmed to monitor and analyze a user s social network behavioral patterns as well as certain financial patterns to generate various scores which relate to identity authentication and risk assessment. Module can be programmed to implement a machine learning engine in the system. Machine learning a branch of artificial intelligence relates to the construction and study of systems that can learn from data. Various data storage media can be configured for storage and retrieval of scoring data generated in accordance with various scores calculated by the system. Examples of other modules or components that may be included within embodiments of the Socure system include without limitation an analytics service module a stream processing service module a visualization engine module various data storage media programmed for storage and retrieval of auditing data a module for managing mobile web applications or native applications e.g. iOS Blackberry Android etc. and for depicting data and scores to users a graphical user interface module depicts data such as dashboard information or other user interface screens and or potentially other modules. Module can be programmed to process facial recognition data and or to perform facial confirmation or liveliness check analyses for example as described above.

The examples presented herein are intended to illustrate potential and specific implementations of the present invention. It can be appreciated that the examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration of the invention for those skilled in the art. No particular aspect or aspects of the examples are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the present invention. For example no particular aspect or aspects of the examples of system architectures user interface layouts or screen displays described herein are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the invention.

It is the intent of the inventors that the various embodiments of the invention described herein should be practiced in appropriate legal and regulatory operating environments. Various embodiments of the invention are intended to be structured for compliance with applicable local state and federal laws and regulations.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that a sufficient understanding of the present invention can be gained by the present disclosure and therefore a more detailed description of such elements is not provided herein.

Any element expressed herein as a means for performing a specified function is intended to encompass any way of performing that function including for example a combination of elements that performs that function. Furthermore the invention as may be defined by such means plus function claims resides in the fact that the functionalities provided by the various recited means are combined and brought together in a manner as defined by the appended claims. Therefore any means that can provide such functionalities may be considered equivalents to the means shown herein.

In various embodiments modules or software can be used to practice certain aspects of the invention. For example software as a service SaaS models or application service provider ASP models may be employed as software application delivery models to communicate software applications to clients or other users. Such software applications can be downloaded through an Internet connection for example and operated either independently e.g. downloaded to a laptop or desktop computer system or through a third party service provider e.g. accessed through a third party web site . In addition cloud computing techniques may be employed in connection with various embodiments of the invention. In certain embodiments a module may include software firmware hardware or any reasonable combination thereof.

Moreover the processes associated with the present embodiments may be executed by programmable equipment such as computers. Software or other sets of instructions that may be employed to cause programmable equipment to execute the processes may be stored in any storage device such as a computer system non volatile memory. Furthermore some of the processes may be programmed when the computer system is manufactured or via a computer readable memory storage medium.

It can also be appreciated that certain process aspects described herein may be performed using instructions stored on a computer readable memory medium or media that direct a computer or computer system to perform process steps. A computer readable medium may include for example memory devices such as diskettes compact discs of both read only and read write varieties optical disk drives and hard disk drives. A computer readable medium may also include memory storage that may be physical virtual permanent temporary semi permanent and or semi temporary.

A computer computer system computing apparatus component or computer processor may be for example and without limitation a processor microcomputer minicomputer server mainframe laptop personal data assistant PDA wireless e mail device smart phone mobile phone electronic tablet cellular phone pager processor fax machine scanner or any other programmable device or computer apparatus configured to transmit process and or receive data. Computer systems and computer based devices disclosed herein may include memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining processing and communicating information. It can be appreciated that such memory may be internal or external with respect to operation of the disclosed embodiments. The memory may also include any means for storing software including a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable PROM and or other computer readable memory media. In various embodiments a host engine loader filter platform or component may include various computers or computer systems or may include a reasonable combination of software firmware and or hardware.

In various embodiments of the present invention a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice embodiments of the present invention such substitution is within the scope of the present invention. Any of the servers described herein for example may be replaced by a server farm or other grouping of networked servers e.g. a group of server blades that are located and configured for cooperative functions. It can be appreciated that a server farm may serve to distribute workload between among individual components of the farm and may expedite computing processes by harnessing the collective and cooperative power of multiple servers. Such server farms may employ load balancing software that accomplishes tasks such as for example tracking demand for processing power from different machines prioritizing and scheduling tasks based on network demand and or providing backup contingency in the event of component failure or reduction in operability.

In general it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that various embodiments described herein or components or parts thereof may be implemented in many different embodiments of software firmware and or hardware or modules thereof. The software code or specialized control hardware used to implement some of the present embodiments is not limiting of the present invention. For example the embodiments described hereinabove may be implemented in computer software using any suitable computer programming language such as .NET SQL MySQL or HTML using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. Programming languages for computer software and other computer implemented instructions may be translated into machine language by a compiler or an assembler before execution and or may be translated directly at run time by an interpreter. Examples of assembly languages include ARM MIPS and x86 examples of high level languages include Ada BASIC C C C COBOL Fortran Java Lisp Pascal Object Pascal and examples of scripting languages include Bourne script JavaScript Python Ruby PHP and Peri. Various embodiments may be employed in a Lotus Notes environment for example. Such software may be stored on any type of suitable computer readable medium or media such as for example a magnetic or optical storage medium. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiments are described without specific reference to the actual software code or specialized hardware components. The absence of such specific references is feasible because it is clearly understood that artisans of ordinary skill would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the embodiments of the present invention based on the description herein with only a reasonable effort and without undue experimentation.

Various embodiments of the systems and methods described herein may employ one or more electronic computer networks to promote communication among different components transfer data or to share resources and information. Such computer networks can be classified according to the hardware and software technology that is used to interconnect the devices in the network such as optical fiber Ethernet wireless LAN HomePNA power line communication or G.hn. The computer networks may also be embodied as one or more of the following types of networks local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN storage area network SAN or global area network GAN among other network varieties.

For example a WAN computer network may cover a broad area by linking communications across metropolitan regional or national boundaries. The network may use routers and or public communication links. One type of data communication network may cover a relatively broad geographic area e.g. city to city or country to country which uses transmission facilities provided by common carriers such as telephone service providers. In another example a GAN computer network may support mobile communications across multiple wireless LANs or satellite networks. In another example a VPN computer network may include links between nodes carried by open connections or virtual circuits in another network e.g. the Internet instead of by physical wires. The link layer protocols of the VPN can be tunneled through the other network. One VPN application can promote secure communications through the Internet. The VPN can also be used to separately and securely conduct the traffic of different user communities over an underlying network. The VPN may provide users with the virtual experience of accessing the network through an IP address location other than the actual IP address which connects the access device to the network.

The computer network may be characterized based on functional relationships among the elements or components of the network such as active networking client server or peer to peer functional architecture. The computer network may be classified according to network topology such as bus network star network ring network mesh network star bus network or hierarchical topology network for example. The computer network may also be classified based on the method employed for data communication such as digital and analog networks.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein may employ internetworking for connecting two or more distinct electronic computer networks or network segments through a common routing technology. The type of internetwork employed may depend on administration and or participation in the internetwork. Non limiting examples of internetworks include intranet extranet and Internet. Intranets and extranets may or may not have connections to the Internet. If connected to the Internet the intranet or extranet may be protected with appropriate authentication technology or other security measures. As applied herein an intranet can be a group of networks which employ Internet Protocol web browsers and or file transfer applications under common control by an administrative entity. Such an administrative entity could restrict access to the intranet to only authorized users for example or another internal network of an organization or commercial entity. As applied herein an extranet may include a network or internetwork generally limited to a primary organization or entity but which also has limited connections to the networks of one or more other trusted organizations or entities e.g. customers of an entity may be given access an intranet of the entity thereby creating an extranet .

Computer networks may include hardware elements to interconnect network nodes such as network interface cards NICs or Ethernet cards repeaters bridges hubs switches routers and other like components. Such elements may be physically wired for communication and or data connections may be provided with microwave links e.g. IEEE 802.12 or fiber optics for example. A network card network adapter or NIC can be designed to allow computers to communicate over the computer network by providing physical access to a network and an addressing system through the use of MAC addresses for example. A repeater can be embodied as an electronic device that receives and retransmits a communicated signal at a boosted power level to allow the signal to cover a telecommunication distance with reduced degradation. A network bridge can be configured to connect multiple network segments at the data link layer of a computer network while learning which addresses can be reached through which specific ports of the network. In the network the bridge may associate a port with an address and then send traffic for that address only to that port. In various embodiments local bridges may be employed to directly connect local area networks LANs remote bridges can be used to create a wide area network WAN link between LANs and or wireless bridges can be used to connect LANs and or to connect remote stations to LANs.

In various embodiments a hub may be employed which contains multiple ports. For example when a data packet arrives at one port of a hub the packet can be copied unmodified to all ports of the hub for transmission. A network switch or other devices that forward and filter OSI layer 2 datagrams between ports based on MAC addresses in data packets can also be used. A switch can possess multiple ports such that most of the network is connected directly to the switch or another switch that is in turn connected to a switch. The team switch can also include routers and bridges as well as other devices that distribute data traffic by application content e.g. a Web URL identifier . Switches may operate at one or more OSI model layers including physical data link network or transport i.e. end to end . A device that operates simultaneously at more than one of these layers can be considered a multilayer switch. In certain embodiments routers or other like networking devices may be used to forward data packets between networks using headers and forwarding tables to determine an optimum path through which to transmit the packets.

As employed herein an application server may be a server that hosts an API to expose business logic and business processes for use by other applications. Examples of application servers include J2EE or Java EE 5 application servers including WebSphere Application Server. Other examples include WebSphere Application Server Community Edition IBM Sybase Enterprise Application Server Sybase Inc WebLogic Server BEA JBoss Red Hat JRun Adobe Systems Apache Geronimo Apache Software Foundation Oracle OC4J Oracle Corporation Sun Java System Application Server Sun Microsystems and SAP Netweaver AS ABAP Java . Also application servers may be provided in accordance with the .NET framework including the Windows Communication Foundation .NET Remoting ADO.NET and ASP.NET among several other components. For example a Java Server Page JSP is a servlet that executes in a web container which is functionally equivalent to CGI scripts. JSPs can be used to create HTML pages by embedding references to the server logic within the page. The application servers may mainly serve web based applications while other servers can perform as session initiation protocol servers for instance or work with telephony networks. Specifications for enterprise application integration and service oriented architecture can be designed to connect many different computer network elements. Such specifications include Business Application Programming Interface Web Services Interoperability and Java EE Connector Architecture.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein may divide functions between separate CPUs creating a multiprocessing configuration. For example multiprocessor and multi core multiple CPUs on a single integrated circuit computer systems with co processing capabilities may be employed. Also multitasking may be employed as a computer processing technique to handle simultaneous execution of multiple computer programs.

In various embodiments the computer systems data storage media or modules described herein may be configured and or programmed to include one or more of the above described electronic computer based elements and components or computer architecture. In addition these elements and components may be particularly configured to execute the various rules algorithms programs processes and method steps described herein.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described herein it should be apparent however that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the present invention. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention as described and claimed herein.

