---

title: Indicia of contact viewing activity
abstract: Embodiments include a television appliance configured to display a selected on-screen viewing activity, and a client application. The client application is configured to maintain a list of contacts and allow a user of the media appliance to establish communication events with contacts via a network interface and packet-based network. The client application is further configured to receive a machine-readable data item via the network interface and packet-based network from a television appliance of one or more of said contacts, the machine-readable data item indicating a current television channel being viewed by the respective contact. In at least some embodiments, the client application may control operation of said user's television appliance in relation to the contact's television appliance based on the data item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09258511&OS=09258511&RS=09258511
owner: Skype
number: 09258511
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20140408
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 843 569 filed on Jul. 26 2010 and titled Television Apparatus which in turn claims priority to G.B. Patent Application Serial No. 1005454.2 filed on Mar. 31 2010 and titled Television Apparatus the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention relates to a household media appliance such as television set or set top box having an embedded processing apparatus for conducting voice or video calls via a packet based network.

Some communication systems allow the user of a terminal such as a personal computer to conduct voice or video calls over a packet based computer network such as the Internet. Such communication systems include voice or video over internet protocol VoIP systems. These systems are beneficial to the user as they are often of significantly lower cost than conventional fixed line or mobile networks. This may particularly be the case for long distance communication. To use a VoIP system the user installs and executes client software on their terminal. The client software sets up the VoIP connections as well as providing other functions such as registration and authentication. In addition to voice communication the client may also set up connections for other communication media such as instant messaging TM SMS messaging file transfer and voicemail.

One type of communication system for packet based communication uses peer to peer P2P topology. To enable access to a peer to peer system a user executes P2P client software supplied by a P2P software provider on their terminal and registers with the P2P system. When the user registers with the P2P system the client software is provided with a digital certificate from a server. This may be referred to as a user identity certificate UIC . Once the client software has been provided with the certificate then calls or other communication connections can subsequently be set up and routed between end users peers of the P2P system without the further use of a server in the call set up. Instead the client looks up the required IP addresses from information distributed amongst the P2P client software on other end users terminals within the P2P system. That is the address look up list is distributed amongst the peers themselves. Once the IP address of a callee s terminal has thus been determined the caller s P2P client software then exchanges UIC certificates with the callee s P2P client software. The exchange of these digital certificates between users provides proof of the users identities and that they are suitably authorized and authenticated in the P2P system. Therefore the presentation of digital certificates provides trust in the identity of the users.

It is therefore a characteristic of peer to peer communication that once registered the users can set up their own communication routes through the P2P system in at least a partially decentralized manner based on distributed address look up and or the exchange of one or more digital certificates without using a server for those purposes. Further details of an example P2P system are disclosed in WO 2005 008524 and WO 2005 009019.

VoIP or other packet based communications can also be implemented using non P2P systems that do use centralized call set up and or authorization e.g. via server.

A problem with packet based communications is that their accessibility to users is limited. In particular such communications are most commonly accessed using a client application installed on personal computer. This has a disadvantage in that its use may be limited since personal computers are often not located in a place where the user is either familiar of comfortable with making phone calls. For example a personal computer is often located in a study which for many users is not the most natural or comfortable environment for making personal calls.

Whilst packet based communication systems can also be accessed via certain mobile devices these generally do not have sufficient processing resources bandwidth or display screens to offer a full range of features such as video calling.

It would therefore be desirable to make packet based communications more accessible to users. One way to do this would be to run a packet based communication client on a processor embedded in a familiar household media appliance like a television set or set top box for plugging into a television. Embedded in this context means within the casing of the appliance. The ability to integrate an embedded processor into a television set or set top box is known and indeed many modern televisions and boxes already contain a processor for performing at least some of the digital signal processing required to decode and output viewable television signals to the screen.

According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a television appliance comprising a television receiver for receiving television signals and outputting the television signal of a selected channel to a screen a network interface for accessing a packet based network a memory storing a communication client application and processing apparatus coupled to the memory network interface and video apparatus and arranged to execute the communication client application wherein the client application is configured to maintain a list of contacts and allow a user of the media appliance to establish communication events with the contacts via the network interface and packet based network and the client application is further configured so as to receive a machine readable data item via the network interface and packet based network from a television appliance of one or more of said contacts the machine readable data item indicating a current television channel being viewed by the respective contact and to process the machine readable data item so as to control operation of said user s television appliance in relation to the contact s television appliance based on the processed data item.

By exchanging data on currently viewed television channels or programmes between contacts this allows the users to have a shared experience in real time. For example the client may be configured to detect when the user is viewing the same channel or programme as one or more of their contacts and generate an on screen control enabling a voice or video call to be established based on that detection. In another example the client may detect that contacts are watching different channels or programmes and generate an on screen control allowing the user to switch to one of their contacts channels.

So in particularly preferred embodiments the client application may be configured to process the machine readable data item so as to generate an on screen control comprising human readable information relating to the channel of the respective contact for output to said screen and to establish a communication event with the respective contact in dependence on a user response received via said on screen control.

The client application may be configured to process the machine readable data item so as to compare the current television channel being viewed by the respective contact to a current television channel being viewed by said user and control operation of said user s media appliance in relation to the contact s television appliance based on the comparison.

The client application may be configured to receive a plurality of said machine readable data items from media appliances of a plurality of said contacts and process the machine readable data items so as to detect which of said contacts are viewing a same channel as said user and enable a communication event to be established with one or more of the contacts viewing the same channel based on said detection.

The communication client may be configured to allow a user of the media appliance to establish voice or video calls or instant messaging events with the contacts via the network interface and packet based network said event being a voice or video call or an instant messaging event.

The client application may be configured to receive channel or programme identity data via said television receiver and perform said processing by mapping the machine readable data item to the programme or channel identity.

The client application may be configured to receive programme timing data via said television receiver and perform said processing by mapping the machine readable data item to the programme timing data.

The client application may be configured to process the machine readable data item so as to generate an on screen control for switching to the respective contact s television channel and to operate the television receiver to switch to the respective contact s channel in dependence on a user input to said control.

Said television receiver may comprise a television broadcast receiver for receiving broadcast television signals and outputting the television signal of a selected broadcast channel to the screen and the machine readable data item may indicate a current television broadcast channel being viewed by the respective contact.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a media appliance comprising video apparatus for outputting signals to a screen a control device allowing a user to control the output of signals from the video apparatus to the screen thereby selecting an on screen viewing activity a network interface for accessing a packet based network a memory storing a communication client application and processing apparatus coupled to the memory network interface and video apparatus and arranged to execute the communication client application wherein the client application is configured to maintain a list of contacts and allow a user of the media appliance to establish communication events with the contacts via the network interface and packet based network and the client application is further configured so as when executed to generate a machine readable data item indicating the current selected on screen viewing activity of the media appliance and transmit said machine readable data item to a plurality of said contacts via the network interface and packet based network.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of operating a television appliance comprising a television receiver for receiving television signals and outputting the television signal of a selected channel to a screen the method comprising executing a communication client application on an embedded processing apparatus of the television appliance wherein the client application is configured to maintain a list of contacts and allow a user of the media appliance to establish communication events with the contacts via a network interface to a packet based network and receiving a machine readable data item via the network interface and packet based network from a television appliance of one or more of said contacts the machine readable data item indicating a current television channel being viewed by the respective contact wherein the execution of the communication client application comprises processing the machine readable data item so as to control operation of said user s television appliance in relation to the contact s television appliance based on the processed data item.

In embodiments there may be provided a method comprising steps in accordance with any described appliance.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a communication client application for operating a television appliance comprising a television receiver for receiving television signals and outputting the television signal of a selected channel to a screen the communication client application comprising code embodied on a computer readable medium and configured so as when executed on a processing apparatus of the television appliance to maintain a list of contacts and enable a user of the media appliance to establish communication events with the contacts via a network interface to a packet based network receive a machine readable data item via the network interface and packet based network from a television appliance of one or more of said contacts the machine readable data item indicating a current television channel being viewed by the respective contact and process the machine readable data item so as to control operation of said user s television appliance in relation to the contact s television appliance based on the processed data item.

In embodiments there may be provided a communication client application configured in accordance with any described appliance.

The difference between a broadcast and a communication made over a packet based network is that broadcast signals are transmitted indiscriminately without transmitting to selected destination devices and regardless of whether the end user has selected to receive the signal although a decryption key or such like may still be required so that only authorized users can derive meaningful information from the television signal for viewing . Packet based communications on the other hand are point to point with an address of the intended destination device being included in the packets. In the case of packet based television signals transmitted over the Internet these are still point to multipoint communications rather than a broadcast.

Each computer terminal is installed with a communication client application . Each computer terminal also comprises an audio transceiver comprising a speaker and microphone e.g. in the form of a headset or handset or a built in speaker and microphone. Most computer terminals preferably also comprise a webcam . Furthermore each television set comprises an embedded processor and memory installed with a version of the communication client application specially adapted for running on a television set. Each television set also comprises a web cam and an audio transceiver with speaker and microphone or is connected or communicable with such components. In a particularly preferred embodiment an audio transceiver is provided in a remote control unit of the television discussed shortly.

The communication client applications and are preferably peer to peer clients for setting up and conducting VoIP calls according to peer to peer principles as discussed above. To that end a peer to peer backend server is coupled to the Internet for receiving registration requests from the client applications and . The back end server is arranged to distribute UIC certificates to the respective client applications and running on the computer terminals and television sets in response to the registration requests. Once registered and thus in possession of a UIC certificate the client applications and or can look up one another s addresses exchange and authenticate one another s certificates and thus establish a voice or video call over the Internet . It will be appreciated however that other kinds of communication client could alternatively be used e.g. based on centralized server based call set up.

In addition the communication system may comprise a telephone network such as a circuit switched network and a gateway connecting between the Internet and the telephone network . A gateway version of the client application is arranged to run on the gateway and a communication client application or running on a computer terminal or television set is thus able to establish a call with a dedicated phone unit of the telephone network . This is achieved by establishing a connection with the client on the gateway using peer to peer call set up and then supplying the relevant telephone number to the gateway effectively the user s client or sees the gateway as a peer . The phone network may for example comprise a fixed line network landline and or a mobile cellular network.

As shown in the remote control unit or just remote control comprises a microphone speaker a first remote interface in the form of an infrared IR transmitter and a second remote interface in the form of a short range RF interface such as a Bluetooth interface. The microphone and speaker are operatively coupled to the Bluetooth interface . The remote control is thus arranged to communicate voice signals from the microphone to the television via the Bluetooth interface and to receive voice signals from the television via the Bluetooth interface for playing out of the speaker .

The remote control further comprises a plurality of buttons operatively coupled to the infrared transmitter arranged so as to allow the user to control the television via the infrared transmitter . The buttons comprise a standby button for setting the television into a low power mode. The buttons further comprise numerical or alphanumeric buttons for changing channel or supplying other numerical or alphanumerical data to the television function buttons for controlling various functions of the television e.g. for controlling a cursor and or menu system and optionally dedicated calling buttons for performing specific dedicated operations relating to the calling functionality of the client application e.g. call hang up or buttons for zooming in and out during a video call.

The televisions set comprises within a single casing an embedded processing apparatus a random access memory RAM and an embedded non volatile storage device which may comprise an electronically erasable and reprogrammable memory EEPROM or flash memory a magnetic storage medium and or a one time writable ROM. The non volatile storage device is coupled to the processing apparatus and stores a basic operating system OS a television application and a communication client application such as a VoIP client. The processing apparatus is arranged to execute the operating system e.g. either by fetching instructions directly from ROM or by first loading from a flash memory into the RAM before fetching. When executed the operating system is configured to load the television application and client application into RAM and schedule them for execution on the processing apparatus . The processing apparatus is thus arranged to run the television application and client application under control of the operating system . In embodiments only a minimal operating system may be required in the form of a basic scheduler.

The television set further comprises within the same casing a video frame buffer and user interface UI frame buffer video hardware a screen an amplifier and speaker or output to an external speaker or headphones a television receiver an external audio video AV input such as a SCART or HDMI input from an external source a webcam or webcam input for connecting to an external webcam a network interface in the form of a first short range RF transceiver such as a Wi Fi transceiver a first remote interface in the form of an infrared IR receiver and a second remote interface in the form of a second short range RF transceiver such as a Bluetooth transceiver.

The video frame buffer and user interface UI frame buffer each have an input coupled to the processing apparatus . The video hardware has an input coupled to the outputs of the video frame buffer and UI frame buffer . The screen has an input to the output of the video hardware . In embodiments the frame buffers and could be dedicated hardware buffers or alternatively could be implemented in a general purpose memory. The amplifier has an input coupled to the processing apparatus and an output coupled to the speaker . The processing apparatus is further coupled to the network interface television receiver auxiliary input webcam input infrared interface and Bluetooth interface .

Any or all of the above components may be coupled to the processing apparatus via intermediate components such as a bus and or cache not shown as will be understood by a person skilled in the art.

The television receiver comprises an input for connecting to at least one reception means such as an antenna satellite dish or cable line and is thus arranged to receive television broadcast signals from the television network via the reception means. The television receiver is a hardware front end which may comprise for example sampling circuitry a low noise amplifier a filter a mixer and or an analogue to digital converter ADC . Once received by the television receiver unit the television signals are thus made available to the processing apparatus for signal processing. The television application comprises a signal processing engine in the form of code which when executed performs at least some of the required signal processing on the received television signals. The processed television signals are then output to the video frame buffer and amplifier for consumption by the end user. The signal processing engine may comprise for example a digital filter demodulator demultiplexer decoder decryption block and or error checking block. However different ways of allocating the television receiver and processing functionality between software and dedicated hardware are also possible. E.g. in embodiments more of the functionality such as the demultiplexing could be moved to the receiver front end . Techniques for receiving and processing television signals will be known to a person skilled in the art.

In the case of traditional analogue television broadcasts the signals of a plurality of different concurrent programs of different TV channels are frequency division multiplexed over the airwaves by being transmitted on different frequencies. The television receiver will then comprise a tuning circuit to demultiplex the broadcasts and thereby separate out the signal of the required programme. In the case of digital television broadcasts the signals of different concurrent programmes are each divided into packets and interleaved so as to time division multiplex the different programmes signals into a transport stream for broadcast. The signal processing engine of the television application will then comprise a packet filter to demultiplex the packets of different transport streams and so separate out the signal of the required programme. Multiple transport streams may also be broadcast on different frequencies requiring a tuner as well. Furthermore for digital television one or more of the transport streams may comprise additional programme information such as an electronic programme guide EPG .

Video signals for output to the television screen may also be received via the AV input from an external source such as a DVD player or games console.

The television application further comprises a UI graphics engine a remote protocol engine an application programming interface API and a television UI layer. The overall operation of the signal processing engine UI graphics engine remote protocol engine and API is controlled by the television UI layer. The user can select which broadcast to view by pressing buttons on the remote control causing the remote control to communicate control signals to the processing apparatus via the infrared transmitter and receiver . The user may also use the buttons in a similar manner to view additional information such as the EPG or control menus and to navigate the EPG or menus. The relevant control signals are interpreted by the remote protocol engine of the television application which in turn communicates with the television UI layer. In response the television UI layer controls the signal processing engine to output the relevant television programme to the video frame buffer and or controls the UI graphics engine to output graphics to the UI frame buffer e.g. to display the graphics of the menu or EPG . The frame buffers and or supply their contents to the video hardware for display on the screen . In embodiments the UI frame buffer and video hardware may be arranged to overlay UI graphics over the current television programme in a partially transparent manner and or to leave at least part of the television programme visible.

As mentioned the television set comprises a network interface . In preferred embodiments this takes the form of a wireless transceiver such as a Wi Fi transceiver for communicating wirelessly with a household or office based wireless router as found in most modern homes or offices. The router in turn connects to the Internet . However in alternative embodiments the network interface may comprise other options such as a wired modem or a port to an external wired modem.

The communication client application comprises a protocol stack having an I O layer which when executed on the processing unit is operable to transmit and receive signals over the Internet via the network interface . The I O layer comprises a network signaling protocol for transmitting and receiving control signals over the Internet via the network interface . The I O layer may also comprise an API for communicating with the API of the television application .

The I O layer further comprises a voice engine comprising a voice codec. The voice engine is arranged to accept speech signals from the microphone and to encode those speech signals for transmission over the internet via the network interface . The voice engine is also arranged to decode speech signals received over the Internet via the network interface for output to the television s amplifier and speaker or to the speaker in the remote control via the Bluetooth interfaces and . The I O layer further comprises a video engine comprising a video codec. The video engine is arranged to accept video signals from the webcam input and to encode those video signals for transmission over the Internet via the network interface . The video engine is also arranged to decode video signals received over the Internet via the network interface for output to the UI frame buffer video hardware and screen . Alternatively in a full screen mode the video codec could output video via the video frame buffer .

Higher up the protocol stack the client application comprises a client engine which is responsible for call set up. The client engine controls the network signaling protocol engine of the client in order to establish a live voice or video call with another user terminal or over the Internet preferably using P2P call set up as discussed above or potentially using a centralized call set up via a server. The client engine may also handle other functions such as connection management authentication encryption and or exchanging presence information with the client applications or of other user terminals presence information indicates the availability of a user for communication and is preferably at least partially defined by the respective user themselves .

Even higher up the protocol stack the client application comprises a client UI layer which is responsible for the client s user interface. The client UI layer is operable to generate a client user interface for output to the UI frame buffer video hardware and screen . This may be output via the APIs and the UI graphics engine of the TV application under control of the TV UI layer or alternatively the client application could be provided with its own UI graphics protocol to output graphics to the UI frame buffer directly . The client user interface thus presents the user with on screen controls which they can activate using buttons on the remote control . Based on these button presses the remote control communicates control signals to the processing apparatus via the infrared transmitter and receiver . These control signals may be interpreted by the UI protocol engine in the television application and then signaled via the APIs to the layer of the client application or alternatively the I O layer of the client application could be provided with its own remote control protocol to interpret these control signals directly . In turn the protocol of the I O layer of the client communicates with the client UI layer. The client UI layer is thus configured to respond to user inputs in order to control the overall operation of the client application e.g. allowing a user to select contacts to call hand up etc.

Furthermore the UI layer of the client may be configured to communicate with the UI layer of the television application via the APIs and the operating system . This allows the client application and television application to negotiate control of the screen and or speaker or .

Whether the client application or television application takes precedence may depend on the implementation and or situation. Since the television set is primarily a television then preferably the client application should require permission from the television application before controlling the screen or speaker or . However in embodiments a user defined setting may be provided allowing the user to control whether or not the client application can autonomously take control of the screen and or speaker or e.g. to notify the user in event of an incoming call. This setting would preferably be stored in a non volatile memory and be readable by the client application and or television application . E.g. the television application may be configured to read a setting from memory and if set to unequivocally allow the client application to control the screen and or speaker. Alternatively the client application may be configured to read a setting from memory and if set to control the screen and or speaker without seeking permission from the television application .

In the following described embodiments the present invention provides a number of different mechanisms for sharing information on viewing activity between the television sets and or other television appliances such as set top boxes and for controlling operation of one of those television appliances in relation to another of the television appliances in dependence on the shared information. The shared information indicates a television channel currently being viewed.

Referring to by way of illustration this viewing information is supplied over the Internet to the client running on a first television appliance of one user from the clients running on one or more second television appliances of contacts on a contact list maintained by said user. Reciprocally the client on the first appliance preferably supplies its own viewing information to the contacts appliances

To this end the client running on each television appliance generates a machine readable data item indicating the current television channel being viewed through that respective television appliance. That is to say the data item is not just a text description logo or other indication having meaning only to a human but rather a signal that can be interpreted and acted upon in an at least partially automated manner by the client application running on the receiving appliances . A second television appliance is thus enabled to provide a first television appliance with information on the channel currently being viewed through the second television appliance and preferably vice versa. There are a number of mechanisms for exchanging the viewing information in the form of this machine readable data item.

According to a first mechanism the current viewing information may be exchanged over the Internet in a manner akin to presence information in certain systems. In this first mechanism the client on each television appliance maintains a contact list and exchanges the viewing information directly with the other television appliances of a plurality of contacts on the contact list using the network addresses IP addresses of those contacts. This could be achieved for example by polling each contact s appliance over the Internet e.g. periodically and receiving an update of the viewing information from each respective contact in response. Alternatively or additionally it could be achieved by each client unilaterally transmitting its own viewing information to each contact over the Internet e.g. periodically or in response to certain events such as the contact changing channel . For the purpose of this polling and or transmission the IP addresses of the contacts will be required by the client . In the case of a P2P system the client may determine the IP addresses of the contacts by reference to a distributed database distributed amongst other user s terminals or in the case of a non P2P system the IP addresses may be determined by reference to a server .

According to a second mechanism the current viewing information may be exchanged over the Internet in manner akin to profile information in certain systems. In this second mechanism the client on each television appliance maintains a contact list and uploads its own respective viewing information to a server e.g. by periodically uploading updated information or doing so in response to certain events such as changing channel . Further each client also retrieves updates of a plurality of its contact s viewing information from the server e.g. again periodically .

According to a third mechanism the current viewing information may be exchanged in a manner akin to network addresses in certain P2P systems. This third mechanism works as described in relation to the second mechanism but with the viewing information being stored on and retrieved from a distributed database distributed amongst other user s terminals instead of a server .

Once a machine readable data item indicating the viewing information has been received from a contact by any of the above mechanisms it has to be interpreted by the client running on the receiving appliance and if appropriate acted upon so as to control operation of the first appliance in relation to the contact s appliance . As mentioned this action is at least partially automated although in preferred embodiments there is also a stage of manual approval involved as well i.e. the client would preferably not allow a contact s viewing activity to have a completely autonomous effect .

As shown in the examples of A and B in embodiments this process may involve interpreting the machine readable data so as to generate an onscreen control comprising human readable data for output to the screen . The on screen control then allows operation of the receiving user s appliance to be controlled in relation to the contact s appliance subject to a suitable approval or selection from the user based on the received machine readable data item indicating the viewing activity of the contact. That is to say the operation of the two appliances is coordinated based on the exchanged data on viewing activity. This coordination can comprise one of at least two possibilities. A first type of coordination comprises detecting when the user and one or more of his or her contacts are viewing the same channel and enabling a communication session such as a voice or windowed video call to be established based on the detection. A second type of coordination comprises enabling a user to switch channel to the channel currently being viewed by a contact based on the received viewing information.

A preferred example of the first type of coordination between television appliances and is described in relation to . Here a machine readable data item is received from each client on each of a plurality of contact s television appliances indicating their viewing activity e.g. being polled periodically by the first receiving television appliance . The client on the receiving appliance processes each machine readable data item in order to compare the television channel currently being viewed by each of the contacts through their respective appliances with the television channel currently being viewed by the user of the receiving appliance . On condition that a match is found and if the feature is not disabled by a user setting then the client on the receiving appliance displays an on screen control in the form of a prompt on the screen e.g. comprising human readable message indicating information such as the identity of the matched contact the channel and or programme that contact is currently viewing a proposal that the user establishes a call with the contact and an indication of an action the user may take to accept or decline the proposal e.g. by pressing buttons or on the remote . The client thus provides an on screen control enabling a call to be established with the contact based on receipt of the received machine readable data item indicating the viewing activity of that contact.

Note that the establishment of the call is partially automated based on the machine readable data item indicating the contact s viewing activity in that the prompt is generated automatically in response to detecting matching viewing activity and the call is established in response to that prompt rather than the user simply choosing to call the contact by navigating conventional controls. The prompt may be displayed in conjunction with the ongoing programme e.g. being overlaid.

Examples of the second type of coordination between television appliances and are described in relation to . For example in an indication may be displayed against each contact in the contact list indicating the current channel they are watching and or a message may be displayed in the profile information of a particular contact indicating the channel or programme being viewed by that contact. In conjunction with an input means such as a cursor system controlled by function buttons or on the remote control these indications or messages provide another type of onscreen control that can be generated by the client based on receiving a machine readable data item indicating the viewing activity of one or more contacts. In this example the user can switch to the same television channel as currently being viewed by one of his or her contacts by operating the cursor system to select the appropriate on screen control . If the user does so the client issues a control signal to the television application to change to the same channel as the contact.

Note that the switching of the channel is partially automated based on the machine readable data item indicating the contact s viewing activity in that the on screen control is generated automatically based on the machine readable data item and the switching operation is performed by the client using information in or derived from the machine readable data item received from the contact rather than the user simply choosing to navigate to the contact s channel via conventional channel changing controls such as alphanumeric buttons or channel up and down buttons on the remote .

In another example shown in the machine readable data item indicating the contact s viewing is transmitted as part of an invitation message from the contact s appliance initiated by the contact. The invitation message is to invite the user of the receiving appliance to automatically switch to the same television channel as the contact. In response the client on the receiving appliance displays an on screen control in the form of a prompt which may indicate information such as the nature of the invitation the identity of the contact and an action the user may take to accept or decline the invitation e.g. using the remote control . If the user accepts the client issues a control message to the television application to change to the same channel as the contact.

In the examples of A and B the client on the first receiving appliance interprets the machine readable data item in order to generate human readable information and or to identify a channel to switch to. One way to do this would be simply to assign predetermined channel identities pre stored at each television appliance . However this would be inflexible as it would not accommodate the possibility of updates to channel identities and would not incorporate other information such as programme or timing information. A preferred option is to use additional information received in the television broadcast itself in order to interpret the machine readable data item as now discussed in relation to .

In most digital television systems additional programme information is broadcast over the television network . In this case the additional programme information is received by the client application via the television receiver . The additional information may comprise channel identities programme identities and or timing information for example in the form of an electronic programme guide EPG . In particularly preferred embodiments of the present invention the client application is configured to access this additional information via an API to the television application

Referring to a digital television broadcast may comprise audio data and video data of one or more programme streams all interleaved together i.e. time division multiplexed into a combined transport stream for transmission on a particular frequency. Also interleaved into the transport stream is additional information providing channel identities programme identities and or programme schedules for the one or more programmes potentially amongst other information such as subtitles and textual programme summaries or pr cis . In one embodiment this additional information may comprise an electronic programme guide EPG . The additional information may take the form of a general data stream multiplexed into the transport stream in conjunction with a plurality of programme streams providing programme information for a plurality of programmes. An example of this would be an electronic programme guide EPG . Alternatively or additionally individual respective programme information may be provided in the stream of each programme. The audio data video data and additional information are decoded by the signal processing engine of the television application and the required channel and or programme information can be accessed by the client application via the APIs under control of the TV UI layer.

In such embodiments the client takes the received machine readable data item indicating a television channel currently being viewed by a contact and processes the received data item by mapping it to additional information received via the television broadcast. The client can thereby determine the identity of a current channel being viewed by the contacts the identity of a current programme being viewed by a contact and or the timing of the contact s current programme

In the example of the channel identity programme identity and or timing information obtained from the additional information is displayed as part of the on screen prompt . These will aid the user in making an appropriate decision as to whether to establish a call.

In the examples of the channel identity programme identity and or timing information obtained from the additional information is displayed as part of the on screen control and or . These will aid the user in making an appropriate selection. Furthermore if the user selects or accept the proposed channel switch then the mapped channel identity may be used to switch the channel. E.g. different channels may map to different channel numbers or broadcast frequencies in different geographical regions such that the machine readable data item received from a contact cannot directly indicate the channel number or frequency that the receiving appliance should switch to. Instead the received data item may provide some other means of specifying the channel which is mapped to an appropriate channel number or frequency received in the additional broadcast information .

For instance the term application as used herein is not limiting to any one discrete or indivisibly executable software unit but more generally can refer to any one or more portions of code which operate together to provide the relevant functionality. E.g. the communication client application could comprise a basic client application and separate plug in application and or some of the described functionality of the client application could be incorporated into a portion of code that bay be referred as being part of the television application .

Further where it is said that the communication client processes the machine readable data item in order to generate human readable information this does not necessarily mean readable in the sense of text. The human readable information could comprise an icon or logo for example which has meaning to the user.

Note also that the term programme does not limit to any particular kind of programme content and could refer for example to a film soap opera documentary sporting event news programme etc.

Further other ways of allocating the various client television and other functionality amongst different processors are envisaged. For example one or more dedicated signal processors DSPs could be arranged to execute the television signal processing engine of the television application and or the video engine and or voice engine of the client application with one or more separate CPUs being arranged to execute the UI layer client engine protocol and graphics engines of the client application and or the UI layer and protocol and graphics engines of the television application . In another example the client application and television application would each be run on a different respective CPU embedded in the television set . Some or all of the functionality of the television application could alternatively be implemented in dedicated hardware including the possibility of hardwired signal processing apparatus in the television receiver front end .

Further where a server is referred to above this does not necessarily limit to a single server unit and generally the server can be implemented in one or more server units at one or more server locations.

Furthermore although the preferred application the invention is not limited to use in a television set having the above components including television screen all within one single self contained casing. In another application the invention could be implemented in a set top box for plugging into such a television set. In that case the diagram would be similar to that of but with the television hardware and screen replaced by an audio video A V output.

Generally speaking the present invention can be applied to any media appliance having video apparatus for outputting signals to a television screen. The video apparatus may comprise any combination of dedicated hardware and or regions of memory storing software modules with any software modules being executed on either the same or a different processor unit as the client application . Depending on the appliance and the implementation the video apparatus may take different forms. In the example television set of for example the video apparatus may be said to comprise a combination of the frame buffers and video hardware and or a region of the non volatile memory storing signal processing code of the television application. In the example computer terminal of the video apparatus may be said to comprise the video hardware and or a region of the non volatile storage storing code for displaying graphics.

Further the present invention need not be limited by television broadcasts. With increasing popularity of packet based television services there may be interest in the idea of a dedicated television set with the capability of receiving packet based television signals either over the Internet or a dedicated packet based service.

Furthermore note that the present invention is not limited particularly to VoIP or to a peer to peer topology. Other packet based networks protocols and methods of call set up may also be used.

The established communication may be voice or video but it may alternatively be an IM chat message or session or other type of communication. E.g. one scenario may be that a user could join or start a multi chat directly connected to a specific show with some of the user s contacts. This would allow the user to engage in an IM chat session related to the show which would require less engagement from the user compared to a video or voice call.

Other variations of the present invention may be apparent to a person skilled in the art given the disclosure herein. The scope of the present invention is not limited by the described embodiments but only by the appendant claims.

