---

title: Sensor for detecting the contact location of a gas-liquid interface on a solid body
abstract: A sensor system for determining the position of a gas-liquid interface on a surface includes a light source and photo detectors spaced along the surface and capable of detecting reflections from the light source. The photo detectors are joined to a processor which determines if the detectors have received a reflection when the gas phase of the gas-liquid interface contacts the surface. An optical guide can be provided having the light source and detectors positioned therein. The guide is positioned in the region of the gas-liquid interface. The guide can utilize total internal reflection to distribute light to the detectors where light strikes a gas-guide interface whereas light striking a liquid-guide interface is refracted through the interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09222824&OS=09222824&RS=09222824
owner: 
number: 09222824
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140203
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The invention relates to a sensor system for remotely detecting a gas liquid interface on a solid body.

Determining the location of a liquid contact location is a common problem when dealing with gas liquid interfaces. This problem occurs in determining the level of liquid in a tank location of a waterline on a vessel or buoy or positioning of a cavity about a high speed underwater vehicle.

There is a trade off between sensor spatial resolution and complexity. A sensor array sized to cover a large area must reduce the overall number of sensors or use a prohibitively complex processing system. For example pressure sensors are a common method of detecting the presence of either gas or liquid at a single point. Making these measurements over a large area requires an array of sensors which can be tedious to work with and consume large amounts of processing time.

Sensors based on electrical conductance resistance changes are also known in the art but are also generally limited to small surface areas which makes them impractical for large scale applications such as vessels or structures.

Another type of sensor an optical sensor utilizes the principles of total internal reflectance to distinguish a gas liquid interface. Several prior art patents describe sensors that make use of the principle of total internal reflection for detecting the presence of moisture or dirt on a vehicle windshield e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 052 196 to Pientka et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 232 603 to Nelson U.S. Pat. No. 6 084 519 to Coulling et al. . While these sensors typically are incorporated into a feedback control system they only measure locally and do not provide specific information about the location of contact of gas liquid interfaces with the surface. Moreover the sensors are not configured to provide information for a larger area.

It is desireable to have sensors which can accurately determine the location of a gas liquid interface over a large surface. As previously mentioned dynamically and remotely detecting the location of a gas supercavity on a supercavitating vehicle is vital for vehicle control and model validation yet a reliable method of remotely detecting the closure location is lacking. Another application is detecting the location of contact of a free surface on a ship hull or buoy critical for vessel control and safety. Finally application of such a sensor to a floating platform or other marine structure would provide important information on the structure s submergence preventing it from being raised or lowered beyond safety margins or structural limits.

It is desirable to have a sensor which can monitor a gas liquid interface and continuously provide feedback over a large area without increasing the need for the number of sensors.

It is further desirable to have a device which has the sensitivity to collect data variations from single point to a large surface area.

It is further desirable to have a device which may utilize such data in a feedback loop to control a cavitator or other object.

Accordingly a sensor system for determining the position of a gas liquid interface on a surface includes a light source and photo detectors spaced along the surface and capable of detecting reflections from the light source. The photo detectors are joined to a processor which determines if the detectors have received a reflection from the gas phase of the gas liquid interface. An optical guide can be provided having the light source and detectors positioned therein. The guide is positioned in the region of the gas liquid interface. The guide can utilizes total internal reflection to distribute light to the detectors where light strikes a gas guide interface whereas light striking a liquid guide interface is refracted through the interface.

The present invention is intended to be configurable so as to measure the dynamic contact location of a gas liquid interface either at a local point along a linear dimension of the body or over a surface area of the body. The signal received from the sensor can be incorporated into a feedback control loop to provide information about the separation closure and or cavity about the solid body.

For the purpose of promoting an understanding of the present invention references are made in the text to exemplary embodiments of gas liquid interface sensors and sensor systems. It should be understood that no limitations on the scope of the invention are intended by describing these exemplary embodiments. One of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that alternate but functionally equivalent sensors and systems may be used. The inclusion of additional elements may be deemed readily apparent and obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art. Specific elements disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but rather as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one of ordinary skill in the art to employ the present invention.

It should be understood that the drawings are not necessarily to scale instead the drawings emphasize the principles of the invention. In addition in the embodiments depicted herein reference numerals in the various drawings refer to identical or near identical structural elements.

The following terms are used throughout this disclosure. Feedback control mechanism refers to a mechanism which utilizes input data to dynamically control a system. Guide refers to a three dimensional structure capable of transmitting and or directing light. The term optical component refers to a component which alters or processes a light beam. Optical components may include but are not limited to beam splitters prism couplers and optical filters. The term photosensitive component refers to a component capable of sensing light or other electromagnetic energy. Photosensitive components may include but are not limited to photodetectors photographic plates and particle detectors. As used herein the term supercavitating vessel refers to a vessel which is designed to move through an underwater environment with a gaseous bubble thereabout.

In there is shown a supercavitating vehicle . A cavitator is positioned at the nose of vehicle . In use vehicle generates a cavity . Typically cavity is generated by a drop in pressure as the vehicle travels through an underwater environment. Cavity begins at a separation region at the terminal edge of cavitator . Cavity extends along vehicle to a closure where the cavity terminates. Closure can be along vehicle as shown here or behind vehicle .

A sensor system is adhered attached or embedded along the length of a supercavitating vehicle . Sensor system detects the location at which the cavity gas liquid interface or closure contacts vehicle . Sensor system includes a light source and a plurality of light sensing elements . Light sensing elements are positioned along a surface of vehicle and are joined to a control computer within vehicle . Light sensing elements provide a signal to computer indicating whether the surface is locally in contact with a liquid or a gas. Contact with a gas is expected to yield a signal indicating the presence of light from light source and contact with a liquid is expected to yield a signal indicating a lower level of light. Light sensing element signals can be incorporated into a feedback control loop governed by computer .

Control computer monitors signals from elements . Control computer can be pre programmed to continuously monitoring the gas liquid body contact location represented by shifts in element signals. Control computer can determine the gas liquid body contact location continuously or at any given time by determining the location of the signal transition. By way of specific non exclusive examples this information can be utilized in control computer for modifying control of the cavitator modifying control of other systems which may affect location of the gas liquid interface displaying a continuously updated visual representation of the gas liquid body contact location on a user interface or storing the data for later analysis.

One general embodiment of sensor is shown in where a sensor is positioned on a body . The sensor consists of a single light source that provides light at an angle of incidence within a guide having a width length L and thickness h. The thickness may be constant or variable along the length of the sensor. The guide is constructed of a translucent material having an index of refraction n. A plurality of light detecting units having one or more optical components and one or more photosensitive components are arranged along the length of the sensor at or near the bottom of the guide . Detecting elements and electronics can be provided in a backing material that can be attached adhered or embedded to body .

The method of detection of the contact location of the gas liquid interface involves placement of the sensor on or near the surface of the body such that a non opaque optical path exists between the sensor and the environment. The sensor material has an index of refraction n that is larger than the indices of refraction of the both the liquid n and the gas n . The critical angles associated with the guide gas interface and guide liquid interface are given respectively as

Because the light beam is from light source and contacts guide at an angle of incidence light travels within the sensor at the sensor environment interface such that the incident light makes an angle with the surface normal vector. The incident angle is set such that 

Therefore total internal reflection will be achieved when the environment in contact with the sensor consists of gas . When the environment consists of the liquid a portion of light will escape into the liquid producing a measureable change in the amount of light reflected from the sensor environment interface. Because the sensor incorporates light detecting elements which measure the change in the amount of light reflected a change in light detected can indicate the presence of a liquid environment.

If the light source in the embodiment shown in consists of a laser with circular beam of radius r then the minimum allowable guide thickness is given by

Although to this point the light detecting units have remained generic any detecting unit will necessarily consume a portion of the light incident upon it. Defining the initial light source power as P we can define the power remaining in the beam after contacting the n th light detecting unit as . 7 where x is the fraction of initial power that remains in the beam after contacting the light detecting unit. Assuming a state of total internal reflection at the sensor environment interface the power incident upon the ndetecting unit is then . 8 and the power sampled by ndetecting unit is 1 . 9 

The n th detecting element must be capable of detecting this power. Furthermore every detecting unit must be capable of detecting the change in the incident power when the environment in contact with the sensor changes from gas to liquid. Although the light will cease to be totally internally reflected at the location at which the liquid contacts the guide surface a portion of the light will still be reflected. This portion depends on the angle of incidence and the refractive indices of the guide and the liquid. The reflectance R defined as the ratio of reflected power to incident power is plotted in for representative refractive indices of n 1.5 n 1.333 and n 1. The solid and dashed black curves correspond to the reflectance in a plane perpendicular and parallel to the plane of incidence for the guide gas interface respectively. Similarly the gray curves correspond to the guide liquid interface. The vertical black lines denote the critical angle associated with each interface. In order to maximize the sensitivity of the sensor the incidence angle should be as close as possible to so that the amount of reflected power when liquid contacts the surface is minimized. Nonetheless the reflectance increases slowly until an angle very close to the critical angle thus providing relatively loose design constraints.

The minimum power resolution i.e. smallest detectable change in power of the sensor can be defined as 1 1 1 . 10 Assuming N is the last sensor that can detect both Pand P then the length of the sensor can be written as 11 

One embodiment of the light detecting unit is shown in . At each light detecting unit location a beam splitter is incorporated into the bottom of the guide . Beam splitter has an incident surface a partially reflective surface a transmission surface and a reflection surface . Incident light strikes the incident surface of the beam splitter at an angle of zero degrees to the normal. A portion of the incident light as given in equation 9 is transmitted through the beam splitter to a photo detector that is positioned on the transmission surface of the beam splitter . As given by equation 7 the remainder of the incident light is reflected and directed towards the guide environment interface such that the angle of incidence that the reflected ray makes with the guide environment interface is

An alternative embodiment of the sensor is illustrated in . This embodiment consists of a single light source and light detecting element that is repositionable along the length of the guide from a first position to a second position . In first position light reflects from guide to element . In second position light transmits through guide . Cavity closure can be detected by the lower light level at second position . This embodiment provides the sensor with larger dynamic range because the signal is not split and potentially better spatial resolution.

The invention can be practiced other than as described herein. For example the light source can have a specific frequency of light not ordinarily present in the environment and the detector can be tuned to receive that specific frequency. This would limit interference from external light.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

