---

title: IDO inhibitors
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09624188&OS=09624188&RS=09624188
owner: Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
number: 09624188
owner_city: Princeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140312
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 787 939 filed Mar. 15 2013 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates generally to compounds that modulate or inhibit the enzymatic activity of indoleamine 2 3 dioxygenase IDO pharmaceutical compositions containing said compounds and methods of treating proliferative disorders such as cancer viral infections and or autoimmune diseases utilizing the compounds of the invention.

Tryptophan is an amino acid which is essential for cell proliferation and survival. Indoleamine 2 3 dioxygenase is a heme containing intracellular enzyme that catalyzes the first and rate determining step in the degradation of the essential amino acid L tryptophan to N formyl kynurenine. N formyl kynurenine is then metabolized by multiple steps to eventually produce nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide NAD . Tryptophan catabolites produced from N formyl kynurenine such as kynurenine are known to be preferentially cytotoxic to T cells. Thus an overexpression of IDO can lead to increased tolerance in the tumor microenvironment. IDO overexpression has been shown to be an independent prognostic factor for decreased survival in patients with melanoma pancreatic colorectal and endometrial cancers among others. Moreover IDO has been found to be implicated in neurologic and psychiatric disorders including mood disorders as well as other chronic diseases characterized by IDO activation and tryptophan depletion such as viral infections for example AIDS Alzheimer s disease cancers including T cell leukemia and colon cancer autoimmune diseases diseases of the eye such as cataracts bacterial infections such as Lyme disease and streptococcal infections.

Accordingly an agent which is safe and effective in inhibiting production of IDO would be a most welcomed addition to the physician s armamentarium.

The present invention provides compounds and or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof stereoisomers thereof or tautomers thereof methods of modulating or inhibiting the enzymatic activity of IDO and methods for treating various medical conditions using said compounds.

The present invention also provides processes and intermediates for making the compounds of the present invention and or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof or stereoisomers thereof or tautomers thereof.

The present invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and one or more of the compounds of the present invention and or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof or stereoisomers thereof or tautomers thereof.

The compounds of the invention and or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof or stereoisomers thereof or tautomers thereof may be used in the treatment and or prophylaxis of multiple diseases or disorders associated with enzymatic activity of IDO inhibition such as cancer viral infections autoimmune diseases and other maladies.

The compounds of the invention and or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof or stereoisomers thereof or tautomers thereof may be used in therapy.

The compounds of the invention and or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof or stereoisomers thereof or tautomers thereof may be used for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment and or prophylaxis of multiple diseases or disorders associated with enzymatic activity of IDO.

The compounds of the invention and or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof or stereoisomers thereof or tautomers thereof can be used alone in combination with other compounds of the present invention and or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof or stereoisomers thereof or tautomers thereof or in combination with one or more other agent s .

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following detailed description and claims.

Ris COH optionally substituted heterocyclyl optionally substituted CONHSOR optionally substituted CONHCOR optionally substituted SONHCORor optionally substituted NHSOR 

Ris optionally substituted C Calkyl optionally substituted C Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted C Calkenyl or optionally substituted C Calkynyl 

Ris H halo CN optionally substituted C Calkyl optionally substituted C Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted C Calkenyl or optionally substituted C Calkynyl 

Rand Rare independently H optionally substituted C Calkyl optionally substituted C C alkoxy C C alkyl optionally substituted C Calkoxy optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted aryl C C alkyl optionally substituted 5 to 8 membered heteroaryl or optionally substituted C Ccycloalkyl 

Ris optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted C Calkylaryl optionally substituted C Calkoxyaryl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted C C alkyl heteroaryl optionally substituted aryl C C alkylaryl optionally substituted aryloxyaryl optionally substituted C Calkyl optionally substituted C Calkenyl optionally substituted C Calkynyl optionally substituted C Ccycloalkyl or optionally substituted C Ccycloalkenyl 

In a second aspect the invention provides a compound of Formula I or II within the scope of the first aspect

Ris COH optionally substituted heterocyclyl optionally substituted CONHSOR optionally substituted CONHCOR optionally substituted SONHCORor optionally substituted NHSOR 

Ris optionally substituted C Calkyl optionally substituted C Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted C Calkenyl or optionally substituted C Calkynyl 

Ris H halo CN optionally substituted C Calkyl optionally substituted C Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted C Calkenyl or optionally substituted C Calkynyl 

Rand Rare independently H optionally substituted C Calkyl optionally substituted C C alkoxy C C alkyl optionally substituted C Calkoxy optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted aryl C C alkyl optionally substituted 5 to 8 membered heteroaryl or optionally substituted C Ccycloalkyl 

Ris optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted C Calkylaryl optionally substituted C Calkoxyaryl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted C C alkyl heteroaryl optionally substituted aryl C C alkylaryl optionally substituted aryloxyaryl optionally substituted C Calkyl optionally substituted C Calkenyl optionally substituted C Calkynyl optionally substituted C Ccycloalkyl or optionally substituted C Ccycloalkenyl 

In a third aspect the invention provides a compound of Formula I or II within the scope of the first and second aspects wherein X is NRRand or a stereoisomer a tautomer or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In a fourth aspect the invention provides a compound of Formula I or II within the scope of the first and second aspects wherein X is ORand or a stereoisomer a tautomer or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In a fifth aspect the invention provides a compound of Formula I or II within the scope of the first second and third aspects wherein

Rand Rare independently selected from C Calkyl C C alkoxy C Calkyl C Calkoxy or optionally substituted aryl C C alkyl 

In a sixth aspect the invention provides a compound of Formula I or II within the scope of one or more previous aspects wherein

In another aspect the invention provides a compound of Formula I or II within the scope of one or more previous aspects wherein

In another aspect the invention provides a compound of Formula I or II within the scope of one or more previous aspects wherein

In another aspect the invention provides a compound selected from the exemplified examples within the scope of the first aspect or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt tautomer or stereoisomer thereof.

In another aspect the invention provides a compound selected from any subset list of compounds within the scope of any of the above aspects.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a composition comprising one or more compounds of the present invention and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a stereoisomer thereof a tautomer thereof or a solvate thereof.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and at least one of the compounds of the present invention and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a stereoisomer thereof a tautomer thereof or a solvate thereof.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and a therapeutically effective amount of at least one of the compounds of the present invention and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a stereoisomer thereof a tautomer thereof or a solvate thereof.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a process for making a compound of the present invention and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a stereoisomer thereof a tautomer thereof or a solvate thereof.

In another embodiment the present invention provides an intermediate for making a compound of the present invention and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a stereoisomer thereof a tautomer thereof or a solvate thereof.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method for the treatment and or prophylaxis of various types of cancer viral infections and or autoimmune diseases comprising administering to a patient in need of such treatment and or prophylaxis a therapeutically effective amount of one or more compounds of the present invention and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a stereoisomer thereof or a tautomer thereof alone or optionally in combination with another compound of the present invention and or at least one other type of therapeutic agent such as a chemotherapeutic agent or a signal transductor inhibitor.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a compound of the present invention and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a stereoisomer thereof or a tautomer thereof for use in therapy.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a combined preparation of a compound of the present invention and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a stereoisomer thereof or a tautomer thereof and additional therapeutic agent s for simultaneous separate or sequential use in therapy.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a combined preparation of a compound of the present invention and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a stereoisomer thereof or a tautomer thereof and additional therapeutic agent s for simultaneous separate or sequential use in the treatment and or prophylaxis of multiple diseases or disorders associated with the enzymatic activity of IDO.

In another aspect the invention provides a method of treating a patient suffering from or susceptible to a medical condition that is sensitive to enzymatic activity of IDO. A number of medical conditions can be treated. The method comprises administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a composition comprising a compound described herein and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a stereoisomer thereof or a tautomer thereof. For example the compounds described herein may be used to treat or prevent viral infections proliferative diseases e.g. cancer and autoimmune diseases.

The compounds and pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are useful in treating or preventing any disease or conditions that are sensitive to enzymatic activity of IDO. These include viral and other infections e.g. skin infections GI infection urinary tract infections genito urinary infections systemic infections proliferative diseases e.g. cancer and autoimmune diseases e.g. rheumatoid arthritis lupus . The compounds and pharmaceutical compositions may be administered to animals preferably mammals e.g. domesticated animals cats dogs mice rats and more preferably humans. Any method of administration may be used to deliver the compound or pharmaceutical composition to the patient. In certain embodiments the compound or pharmaceutical composition is administered orally. In other embodiments the compound or pharmaceutical composition is administered parenterally.

Compounds of the invention can modulate activity of the enzyme indoleamine 2 3 dioxygenase IDO . The term modulate is meant to refer to an ability to increase or decrease activity of an enzyme or receptor. Accordingly compounds of the invention can be used in methods of modulating IDO by contacting the enzyme with any one or more of the compounds or compositions described herein. In some embodiments compounds of the present invention can act as inhibitors of IDO. In further embodiments the compounds of the invention can be used to modulate activity of IDO in cell or in an individual in need of modulation of the enzyme by administering a modulating e.g. inhibiting amount of a compound of the invention.

Compounds of the invention can inhibit activity of the enzyme indoleamine 2 3 dioxygenase IDO . For example the compounds of the invention can be used to inhibit activity of IDO in cell or in an individual in need of modulation of the enzyme by administering an inhibiting amount of a compound of the invention.

The present invention further provides methods of inhibiting the degradation of tryptophan in a system containing cells expressing IDO such as a tissue living organism or cell culture. In some embodiments the present invention provides methods of altering e.g. increasing extracellular tryptophan levels in a mammal by administering an effective amount of a compound of composition provided herein. Methods of measuring tryptophan levels and tryptophan degradation are routine in the art.

The present invention further provides methods of inhibiting immunosuppression such as IDO mediated immunosuppression in a patient by administering to the patient an effective amount of a compound or composition recited herein. IDO mediated immunosuppression has been associated with for example cancers tumor growth metastasis viral infection and viral replication.

The present invention further provides methods of treating diseases associated with activity or expression including abnormal activity and or overexpression of IDO in an individual e.g. patient by administering to the individual in need of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount or dose of a compound of the present invention or a pharmaceutical composition thereof. Example diseases can include any disease disorder or condition that is directly or indirectly linked to expression or activity of the IDO enzyme such as over expression or abnormal activity. An IDO associated disease can also include any disease disorder or condition that can be prevented ameliorated or cured by modulating enzyme activity. Examples of IDO associated diseases include cancer viral infection such as HIV infection HCV infection depression neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer s disease and Huntington s disease trauma age related cataracts organ transplantation e.g. organ transplant rejection and autoimmune diseases including asthma rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis allergic inflammation inflammatory bowel disease psoriasis and systemic lupus erythematosus.

As used herein the term cell is meant to refer to a cell that is in vitro ex vivo or in vivo. In some embodiments an ex vivo cell can be part of a tissue sample excised from an organism such as a mammal. In some embodiments an in vitro cell can be a cell in a cell culture. In some embodiments an in vivo cell is a cell living in an organism such as a mammal.

As used herein the term contacting refers to the bringing together of indicated moieties in an in vitro system or an in vivo system. For example contacting the IDO enzyme with a compound of the invention includes the administration of a compound of the present invention to an individual or patient such as a human having IDO as well as for example introducing a compound of the invention into a sample containing a cellular or purified preparation containing the IDO enzyme.

The term IDO inhibitor refers to an agent capable of inhibiting the activity of indoleamine 2 3 dioxygenase IDO and thereby reversing IDO mediated immunosuppression. The IDO inhibitor may inhibit IDO1 and or IDO2 INDOL1 . An IDO inhibitor may be a reversible or irreversible IDO inhibitor. A reversible IDO inhibitor is a compound that reversibly inhibits IDO enzyme activity either at the catalytic site or at a non catalytic site and an irreversible IDO inhibitor is a compound that irreversibly destroys IDO enzyme activity by forming a covalent bond with the enzyme.

Types of cancers that may be treated with the compounds of this invention include but are not limited to brain cancers skin cancers bladder cancers ovarian cancers breast cancers gastric cancers pancreatic cancers prostate cancers colon cancers blood cancers lung cancers and bone cancers. Examples of such cancer types include neuroblastoma intestine carcinoma such as rectum carcinoma colon carcinoma familiar adenomatous polyposis carcinoma and hereditary non polyposis colorectal cancer esophageal carcinoma labial carcinoma larynx carcinoma hypopharynx carcinoma tongue carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma gastric carcinoma adenocarcinoma medullary thyroid carcinoma papillary thyroid carcinoma renal carcinoma kidney parenchymal carcinoma ovarian carcinoma cervix carcinoma uterine corpus carcinoma endometrium carcinoma chorion carcinoma pancreatic carcinoma prostate carcinoma testis carcinoma breast carcinoma urinary carcinoma melanoma brain tumors such as glioblastoma astrocytoma meningioma medulloblastoma and peripheral neuroectodermal tumors Hodgkin lymphoma non Hodgkin lymphoma Burkitt lymphoma acute lymphatic leukemia ALL chronic lymphatic leukemia CLL acute myeloid leukemia AML chronic myeloid leukemia CML adult T cell leukemia lymphoma diffuse large B cell lymphoma DLBCL hepatocellular carcinoma gall bladder carcinoma bronchial carcinoma small cell lung carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma multiple myeloma basalioma teratoma retinoblastoma choroid melanoma seminoma rhabdomyosarcoma craniopharyngioma osteosarcoma chondrosarcoma myosarcoma liposarcoma fibrosarcoma Ewing sarcoma and plasmocytoma.

Thus according to another embodiment the invention provides a method of treating an autoimmune disease by providing to a patient in need thereof a compound or composition of the present invention. Examples of such autoimmune diseases include but are not limited to collagen diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus. Sharp s syndrome CREST syndrome calcinosis Raynaud s syndrome esophageal dysmotility telangiectasia dermatomyositis vasculitis Morbus Wegener s and Sj gren s syndrome renal diseases such as Goodpasture s syndrome rapidly progressing glomerulonephritis and membrano proliferative glomerulonephritis type II endocrine diseases such as type I diabetes autoimmune polyendocrinopathy candidiasis ectodermal dystrophy APECED autoimmune parathyroidism pernicious anemia gonad insufficiency idiopathic Morbus Addison s hyperthyreosis Hashimoto s thyroiditis and primary myxedema skin diseases such as pemphigus vulgaris bullous pemphigoid herpes gestationis epidermolysis bullosa and erythema multiforme major liver diseases such as primary biliary cirrhosis autoimmune cholangitis autoimmune hepatitis type 1 autoimmune hepatitis type 2 primary sclerosing cholangitis neuronal diseases such as multiple sclerosis myasthenia gravis myasthenic Lambert Eaton syndrome acquired neuromyotomy Guillain Barre syndrome Muller Fischer syndrome stiff man syndrome cerebellar degeneration ataxia opsoclonus sensoric neuropathy and achalasia blood diseases such as autoimmune hemolytic anemia idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura Morbus Werlhof infectious diseases with associated autoimmune reactions such as AIDS malaria and Chagas disease.

One or more additional pharmaceutical agents or treatment methods such as for example anti viral agents chemotherapeutics or other anti cancer agents immune enhancers immunosuppressants radiation anti tumor and anti viral vaccines cytokine therapy e.g. IL2 and GM CSF and or tyrosine kinase inhibitors can be optionally used in combination with the compounds of the present invention for treatment of IDO associated diseases disorders or conditions. The agents can be combined with the present compounds in a single dosage form or the agents can be administered simultaneously or sequentially as separate dosage forms.

Suitable chemotherapeutic or other anti cancer agents include for example alkylating agents including without limitation nitrogen mustards ethylenimine derivatives alkyl sulfonates nitrosoureas and triazenes such as uracil mustard chlormethine cyclophosphamide CYTOXAN ifosfamide melphalan chlorambucil pipobroman triethylene melamine triethylenethiophosphoramine busulfan carmustine lomustine streptozocin dacarbazine and temozolomide.

In the treatment of melanoma suitable agents for use in combination with the compounds of the present invention include dacarbazine DTIC optionally along with other chemotherapy drugs such as carmustine BCNU and cisplatin the Dartmouth regimen which consists of DTIC BCNU cisplatin and tamoxifen a combination of cisplatin vinblastine and DTIC temozolomide or YERVOY . Compounds according to the invention may also be combined with immunotherapy drugs including cytokines such as interferon alpha interleukin 2 and tumor necrosis factor TNF in the treatment of melanoma.

Compounds of the invention may also be used in combination with vaccine therapy in the treatment of melanoma. Antimelanoma vaccines are in some ways similar to the anti virus vaccines which are used to prevent diseases caused by viruses such as polio measles and mumps. Weakened melanoma cells or parts of melanoma cells called antigens may be injected into a patient to stimulate the body s immune system to destroy melanoma cells.

Melanomas that are confined to the arms or legs may also be treated with a combination of agents including one or more compounds of the invention using a hyperthermic isolated limb perfusion technique. This treatment protocol temporarily separates the circulation of the involved limb from the rest of the body and injects high doses of chemotherapy into the artery feeding the limb thus providing high doses to the area of the tumor without exposing internal organs to these doses that might otherwise cause severe side effects. Usually the fluid is warmed to 102 to 104 F. Melphalan is the drug most often used in this chemotherapy procedure. This can be given with another agent called tumor necrosis factor TNF .

Suitable chemotherapeutic or other anti cancer agents include for example anti metabolites including without limitation folic acid antagonists pyrimidine analogs purine analogs and adenosine de aminase inhibitors such as methotrexate 5 fluorouracil floxuridine cytarabine 6 mercaptopurine 6 thioguanine fludarabine phosphate pentostatine and gemcitabine.

Suitable chemotherapeutic or other anti cancer agents further include for example certain natural products and their derivatives for example vinca alkaloids antitumor antibiotics enzymes lymphokines and epipodophyllotoxins such as vinblastine vincristine vindesine bleomycin dactinomycin daunorubicin doxorubicin epirubicin idarubicin ara C paclitaxel Taxol mithramycin deoxyco formycin mitomycin C L asparaginase interferons especially IFN a etoposide and teniposide.

Other cytotoxic agents include navelbene CPT 11 anastrazole letrazole capecitabine reloxafine and droloxafine.

Also suitable are cytotoxic agents such as epidophyllotoxin an antineoplastic enzyme a topoisomerase inhibitor procarbazine mitoxantrone platinum coordination complexes such as cisplatin and carboplatin biological response modifiers growth inhibitors antihormonal therapeutic agents leucovorin tegafur and haematopoietic growth factors.

Other anti cancer agent s include antibody therapeutics such as trastuzumab HERCEPTIN antibodies to co stimulatory molecules such as CTLA 4 4 1BB and PD 1 or antibodies to cytokines IL 10 or TGF .

Other anti cancer agents also include those that block immune cell migration such as antagonists to chemokine receptors including CCR2 and CCR4.

Other anti cancer agents also include those that augment the immune system such as adjuvants or adoptive T cell transfer.

Anti cancer vaccines include dendritic cells synthetic peptides DNA vaccines and recombinant viruses.

The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may optionally include at least one signal transduction inhibitor STI . A signal transduction inhibitor is an agent that selectively inhibits one or more vital steps in signaling pathways in the normal function of cancer cells thereby leading to apoptosis. Suitable STIs include but are not limited to i bcr abl kinase inhibitors such as for example STI 571 GLEEVEC ii epidermal growth factor EGF receptor inhibitors such as for example kinase inhibitors IRESSA SSI 774 and antibodies Imclone C225 Goldstein et al. 1 1311 1318 1995 and Abgenix ABX EGF iii her 2 neu receptor inhibitors such as farnesyl transferase inhibitors FTI such as for example L 744 832 Kohl et al. 1 8 792 797 1995 iv inhibitors of Akt family kinases or the Akt pathway such as for example rapamycin see for example Sekulic et al. 60 3504 3513 2000 v cell cycle kinase inhibitors such as for example flavopiridol and UCN O1 see for example Sausville 3 47 56 2003 and vi phosphatidyl inositol kinase inhibitors such as for example LY294002 see for example Vlahos et al. 269 5241 5248 1994 . Alternatively at least one STI and at least one IDO inhibitor may be in separate pharmaceutical compositions. In a specific embodiment of the present invention at least one IDO inhibitor and at least one STI may be administered to the patient concurrently or sequentially. In other words at least one IDO inhibitor may be administered first at least one STI may be administered first or at least one IDO inhibitor and at least one STI may be administered at the same time. Additionally when more than one IDO inhibitor and or STI is used the compounds may be administered in any order.

The present invention further provides a pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of a chronic viral infection in a patient comprising at least one IDO inhibitor optionally at least one chemotherapeutic drug and optionally at least one antiviral agent in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The pharmaceutical compositions may include at least one IDO inhibitor of the instant invention in addition to at least one established known IDO inhibitor. In a specific embodiment at least one of the IDO inhibitors of the pharmaceutical composition is selected from the group consisting of compounds of formulas I and II .

Also provided is a method for treating a chronic viral infection in a patient by administering an effective amount of the above pharmaceutical composition.

In a specific embodiment of the present invention at least one IDO inhibitor and at least one chemotherapeutic agent may be administered to the patient concurrently or sequentially. In other words at least one IDO inhibitor may be administered first at least one chemotherapeutic agent may be administered first or at least one IDO inhibitor and the at least one STI may be administered at the same time. Additionally when more than one IDO inhibitor and or chemotherapeutic agent is used the compounds may be administered in any order. Similarly any antiviral agent or STI may also be administered at any point in comparison to the administration of an IDO inhibitor.

Chronic viral infections that may be treated using the present combinatorial treatment include but are not limited to diseases caused by hepatitis C virus HCV human papilloma virus HPV cytomegalovirus CMV herpes simplex virus HSV Epstein Barr virus EBV varicella zoster virus coxsackie virus human immunodeficiency virus HIV . Notably parasitic infections e.g. malaria may also be treated by the above methods wherein compounds known to treat the parasitic conditions are optionally added in place of the antiviral agents.

In yet another embodiment the pharmaceutical compositions comprising at least one IDO inhibitor of the instant invention may be administered to a patient to prevent arterial restenosis such as after balloon endoscopy or stent placement. In a particular embodiment the pharmaceutical composition further comprises at least one taxane e.g. paclitaxel Taxol see e.g. Scheller et al. 110 810 814 2004 .

Suitable antiviral agents contemplated for use in combination with the compounds of the present invention can comprise nucleoside and nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors NRTIs non nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors NNRTIs protease inhibitors and other antiviral drugs.

Examples of suitable NRTIs include zidovudine AZT didanosine ddl zalcitabine ddC stavudine d4T lamivudine 3TC abacavir 1592U89 adefovir dipivoxil bis POM PMEA lobucavir BMS 180194 BCH I0652 emitricitabine FTC beta L FD4 also called beta L D4C and named beta L 2 3 dicleoxy 5 fluoro cytidene DAPD beta D 2 6 diamino purine dioxolane and lodenosine FddA . Typical suitable NNRTIs include nevirapine BI RG 587 delaviradine BHAP U 90152 efavirenz DMP 266 PNU 142721 AG 1549 MKC 442 1 ethoxy methyl 5 1 methylethyl 6 phenylmethyl 2 4 1H 3H pyrimidinedione and calanolide A NSC 675451 and B. Typical suitable protease inhibitors include saquinavir Ro 31 8959 ritonavir ABT 538 indinavir MK 639 nelfnavir AG 1343 amprenavir 141W94 lasinavir BMS 234475 DMP 450 BMS 2322623 ABT 378 and AG 1549. Other antiviral agents include hydroxyurea ribavirin IL 2 IL 12 pentafuside and Yissum Project No. 11607.

The present invention also includes pharmaceutical kits useful for example in the treatment or prevention of IDO associated diseases or disorders obesity diabetes and other diseases referred to herein which include one or more containers containing a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention. Such kits can further include if desired one or more of various conventional pharmaceutical kit components such as for example containers with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers additional containers as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Instructions either as inserts or as labels indicating quantities of the components to be administered guidelines for administration and or guidelines for mixing the components can also be included in the kit.

The combination therapy is intended to embrace administration of these therapeutic agents in a sequential manner that is wherein each therapeutic agent is administered at a different time as well as administration of these therapeutic agents or at least two of the therapeutic agents in a substantially simultaneous manner. Substantially simultaneous administration can be accomplished for example by administering to the subject a single dosage form having a fixed ratio of each therapeutic agent or in multiple single dosage forms for each of the therapeutic agents. Sequential or substantially simultaneous administration of each therapeutic agent can be effected by any appropriate route including but not limited to oral routes intravenous routes intramuscular routes and direct absorption through mucous membrane tissues. The therapeutic agents can be administered by the same route or by different routes. For example a first therapeutic agent of the combination selected may be administered by intravenous injection while the other therapeutic agents of the combination may be administered orally. Alternatively for example all therapeutic agents may be administered orally or all therapeutic agents may be administered by intravenous injection. Combination therapy also can embrace the administration of the therapeutic agents as described above in further combination with other biologically active ingredients and non drug therapies e.g. surgery or radiation treatment . Where the combination therapy further comprises a non drug treatment the non drug treatment may be conducted at any suitable time so long as a beneficial effect from the co action of the combination of the therapeutic agents and non drug treatment is achieved. For example in appropriate cases the beneficial effect is still achieved when the non drug treatment is temporally removed from the administration of the therapeutic agents perhaps by days or even weeks.

The invention also provides pharmaceutically acceptable compositions which comprise a therapeutically effective amount of one or more of the compounds of Formula I formulated together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers additives and or diluents and optionally one or more additional therapeutic agents described above.

The compounds of this invention can be administered for any of the uses described herein by any suitable means for example orally such as tablets capsules each of which includes sustained release or timed release formulations pills powders granules elixirs tinctures suspensions including nanosuspensions microsuspensions spray dried dispersions syrups and emulsions sublingually bucally parenterally such as by subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular or intrasternal injection or infusion techniques e.g. as sterile injectable aqueous or non aqueous solutions or suspensions nasally including administration to the nasal membranes such as by inhalation spray topically such as in the form of a cream or ointment or rectally such as in the form of suppositories. They can be administered alone but generally will be administered with a pharmaceutical carrier selected on the basis of the chosen route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable is employed herein to refer to those compounds materials compositions and or dosage forms which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity irritation allergic response or other problem or complication commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable carrier as used herein means a pharmaceutically acceptable material composition or vehicle such as a liquid or solid filler diluent excipient manufacturing aid e.g. lubricant talc magnesium calcium or zinc stearate or steric acid or solvent encapsulating material involved in carrying or transporting the subject compound from one organ or portion of the body to another organ or portion of the body. Each carrier must be acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not injurious to the patient.

The term pharmaceutical composition means a composition comprising a compound of the invention in combination with at least one additional pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to media generally accepted in the art for the delivery of biologically active agents to animals in particular mammals including i.e. adjuvant excipient or vehicle such as diluents preserving agents fillers flow regulating agents disintegrating agents wetting agents emulsifying agents suspending agents sweetening agents flavoring agents perfuming agents antibacterial agents antifungal agents lubricating agents and dispensing agents depending on the nature of the mode of administration and dosage forms.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are formulated according to a number of factors well within the purview of those of ordinary skill in the art. These include without limitation the type and nature of the active agent being formulated the subject to which the agent containing composition is to be administered the intended route of administration of the composition and the therapeutic indication being targeted. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include both aqueous and non aqueous liquid media as well as a variety of solid and semi solid dosage forms. Such carriers can include a number of different ingredients and additives in addition to the active agent such additional ingredients being included in the formulation for a variety of reasons e.g. stabilization of the active agent binders etc. well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Descriptions of suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and factors involved in their selection are found in a variety of readily available sources such as for example Allen L. V. Jr. et al. 2 22nd Edition 2012 Pharmaceutical Press.

The dosage regimen for the compounds of the present invention will of course vary depending upon known factors such as the pharmacodynamic characteristics of the particular agent and its mode and route of administration the species age sex health medical condition and weight of the recipient the nature and extent of the symptoms the kind of concurrent treatment the frequency of treatment the route of administration the renal and hepatic function of the patient and the effect desired.

By way of general guidance the daily oral dosage of each active ingredient when used for the indicated effects will range between about 0.001 to about 5000 mg per day preferably between about 0.01 to about 1000 mg per day and most preferably between about 0.1 to about 250 mg per day. Intravenously the most preferred doses will range from about 0.01 to about 10 mg kg minute during a constant rate infusion. Compounds of this invention may be administered in a single daily dose or the total daily dosage may be administered in divided doses of two three or four times daily.

The compounds are typically administered in admixture with suitable pharmaceutical diluents excipients or carriers collectively referred to herein as pharmaceutical carriers suitably selected with respect to the intended form of administration e.g. oral tablets capsules elixirs and syrups and consistent with conventional pharmaceutical practices.

Dosage forms pharmaceutical compositions suitable for administration may contain from about 1 milligram to about 2000 milligrams of active ingredient per dosage unit. In these pharmaceutical compositions the active ingredient will ordinarily be present in an amount of about 0.1 95 by weight based on the total weight of the composition.

A typical capsule for oral administration contains at least one of the compounds of the present invention 250 mg lactose 75 mg and magnesium stearate 15 mg . The mixture is passed through a 60 mesh sieve and packed into a No. 1 gelatin capsule.

A typical injectable preparation is produced by aseptically placing at least one of the compounds of the present invention 250 mg into a vial aseptically freeze drying and sealing. For use the contents of the vial are mixed with 2 mL of physiological saline to produce an injectable preparation.

The present invention includes within its scope pharmaceutical compositions comprising as an active ingredient a therapeutically effective amount of at least one of the compounds of the present invention alone or in combination with a pharmaceutical carrier. Optionally compounds of the present invention can be used alone in combination with other compounds of the invention or in combination with one or more other therapeutic agent s e.g. an anticancer agent or other pharmaceutically active material.

Regardless of the route of administration selected the compounds of the present invention which may be used in a suitable hydrated form and or the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are formulated into pharmaceutically acceptable dosage forms by conventional methods known to those of skill in the art.

Actual dosage levels of the active ingredients in the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention may be varied so as to obtain an amount of the active ingredient which is effective to achieve the desired therapeutic response for a particular patient composition and mode of administration without being toxic to the patient.

The selected dosage level will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of the particular compound of the present invention employed or the ester salt or amide thereof the route of administration the time of administration the rate of excretion or metabolism of the particular compound being employed the rate and extent of absorption the duration of the treatment other drugs compounds and or materials used in combination with the particular compound employed the age sex weight condition general health and prior medical history of the patient being treated and like factors well known in the medical arts.

A physician or veterinarian having ordinary skill in the art can readily determine and prescribe the effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition required. For example the physician or veterinarian could start doses of the compounds of the invention employed in the pharmaceutical composition at levels lower than that required in order to achieve the desired therapeutic effect and gradually increase the dosage until the desired effect is achieved.

In general a suitable daily dose of a compound of the invention will be that amount of the compound which is the lowest dose effective to produce a therapeutic effect. Such an effective dose will generally depend upon the factors described above. Generally oral intravenous intracerebroventricular and subcutaneous doses of the compounds of this invention for a patient will range from about 0.01 to about 50 mg per kilogram of body weight per day.

If desired the effective daily dose of the active compound may be administered as two three four five six or more sub doses administered separately at appropriate intervals throughout the day optionally in unit dosage forms. In certain aspects of the invention dosing is one administration per day.

While it is possible for a compound of the present invention to be administered alone it is preferable to administer the compound as a pharmaceutical formulation composition .

Unless specifically stated otherwise herein references made in the singular may also include the plural. For example a and an may refer to either one or one or more.

Unless otherwise indicated any heteroatom with unsatisfied valences is assumed to have hydrogen atoms sufficient to satisfy the valences.

Throughout the specification and the appended claims a given chemical formula or name shall encompass all stereo and optical isomers and racemates thereof where such isomers exist. Unless otherwise indicated all chiral enantiomeric and diastereomeric and racemic forms are within the scope of the invention. Many geometric isomers of C C double bonds C N double bonds ring systems and the like can also be present in the compounds and all such stable isomers are contemplated in the present invention. Cis and trans or E and Z geometric isomers of the compounds of the present invention are described and may be isolated as a mixture of isomers or as separated isomeric forms. The present compounds can be isolated in optically active or racemic forms. Optically active forms may be prepared by resolution of racemic forms or by synthesis from optically active starting materials. All processes used to prepare compounds of the present invention and intermediates made therein are considered to be part of the present invention. When enantiomeric or diastereomeric products are prepared they may be separated by conventional methods for example by chromatography or fractional crystallization. Depending on the process conditions the end products of the present invention are obtained either in free neutral or salt form. Both the free form and the salts of these end products are within the scope of the invention. If so desired one form of a compound may be converted into another form. A free base or acid may be converted into a salt a salt may be converted into the free compound or another salt a mixture of isomeric compounds of the present invention may be separated into the individual isomers. Compounds of the present invention free form and salts thereof may exist in multiple tautomeric forms in which hydrogen atoms are transposed to other parts of the molecules and the chemical bonds between the atoms of the molecules are consequently rearranged. It should be understood that all tautomeric forms insofar as they may exist are included within the invention.

When a substituent is noted as optionally substituted the substituents are selected from for example substituents such as alkyl cycloalkyl aryl heterocyclo halo hydroxy alkoxy oxo alkanoyl aryloxy alkanoyloxy amino alkylamino arylamino arylalkylamino disubstituted amines in which the 2 amino substituents are selected from alkyl aryl or arylalkyl alkanoylamino aroylamino aralkanoylamino substituted alkanoylamino substituted arylamino substituted aralkanoylamino thiol alkylthio arylthio arylalkylthio alkylthiono arylthiono arylalkylthiono alkylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl arylalkylsulfonyl sulfonamido e.g. SONH substituted sulfonamido nitro cyano carboxy carbamyl e.g. CONH substituted carbamyl e.g. CONHalkyl CONHaryl CONHarylalkyl or cases where there are two substituents on the nitrogen selected from alkyl aryl or arylalkyl alkoxycarbonyl aryl substituted aryl guanidino heterocyclyl e.g. indolyl imidazolyl furyl thienyl thiazolyl pyrrolidyl pyridyl pyrimidyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl morpholinyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl and the like and substituted heterocyclyl unless otherwise defined.

Additionally for purposes of clarity where a substituent has a dash that is not between two letters or symbols this is used to indicate a point of attachment for a substituent. For example CONHis attached through the carbon atom.

Additionally for purposes of clarity when there is no substituent shown at the end of a solid line this indicates that there is a methyl CH group connected to the bond.

As used herein the term alkyl or alkylene is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms. For example C Calkyl denotes alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Example alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me ethyl Et propyl e.g. n propyl and isopropyl butyl e.g. n butyl isobutyl t butyl and pentyl e.g. n pentyl isopentyl neopentyl .

The term alkenyl denotes a straight or branch chained hydrocarbon radical containing one or more double bonds and typically from 2 to 20 carbon atoms in length. For example C Calkenyl contains from two to eight carbon atoms. Alkenyl groups include but are not limited to for example ethenyl propenyl butenyl 1 methyl 2 buten 1 yl heptenyl octenyl and the like.

The term alkynyl denotes a straight or branch chained hydrocarbon radical containing one or more triple bonds and typically from 2 to 20 carbon atoms in length. For example C Calkenyl contains from two to eight carbon atoms. Representative alkynyl groups include but are not limited to for example ethynyl 1 propynyl 1 butynyl heptynyl octynyl and the like.

The term alkoxy or alkyloxy refers to an O alkyl group. Calkoxy or alkyloxy is intended to include C C C C C and Calkoxy groups. Example alkoxy groups include but are not limited to methoxy ethoxy propoxy e.g. n propoxy and isopropoxy and t butoxy. Similarly alkylthio or thioalkoxy represents an alkyl group as defined above with the indicated number of carbon atoms attached through a sulphur bridge for example methyl S and ethyl S .

The term aryl either alone or as part of a larger moiety such as aralkyl aralkoxy or aryloxyalkyl refers to monocyclic bicyclic and tricyclic ring systems having a total of five to 15 ring members wherein at least one ring in the system is aromatic and wherein each ring in the system contains three to seven ring members. In certain embodiments of the invention aryl refers to an aromatic ring system which includes but not limited to phenyl biphenyl indanyl 1 naphthyl 2 naphthyl and terahydronaphthyl. The term aralkyl or arylalkyl refers to an alkyl residue attached to an aryl ring. Non limiting examples include benzyl phenethyl and the like. The fused aryls may be connected to another group either at a suitable position on the cycloalkyl ring or the aromatic ring. For example 

Arrowed lines drawn from the ring system indicate that the bond may be attached to any of the suitable ring atoms.

The term cycloalkyl refers to cyclized alkyl groups. Ccycloalkyl is intended to include C C C and Ccycloalkyl groups. Example cycloalkyl groups include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and norbornyl. Branched cycloalkyl groups such as 1 methylcyclopropyl and 2 methylcyclopropyl are included in the definition of cycloalkyl . The term cycloalkenyl refers to cyclized alkenyl groups. Ccycloalkenyl is intended to include C C and Ccycloalkenyl groups. Example cycloalkenyl groups include but are not limited to cyclobutenyl cyclopentenyl and cyclohexenyl.

The term cycloalkylalkyl refers to a cycloalkyl or substituted cycloalkyl bonded to an alkyl group connected to the carbazole core of the compound.

 Halo or halogen includes fluoro chloro bromo and iodo. Haloalkyl is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms substituted with 1 or more halogens. Examples of haloalkyl include but are not limited to fluoromethyl difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl trichloromethyl pentafluoroethyl pentachloroethyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl heptafluoropropyl and heptachloropropyl. Examples of haloalkyl also include fluoroalkyl that is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms substituted with 1 or more fluorine atoms.

 Haloalkoxy or haloalkyloxy represents a haloalkyl group as defined above with the indicated number of carbon atoms attached through an oxygen bridge. For example Chaloalkoxy is intended to include C C C C C and Chaloalkoxy groups. Examples of haloalkoxy include but are not limited to trifluoromethoxy 2 2 2 trifluoroethoxy and pentafluorothoxy. Similarly haloalkylthio or thiohaloalkoxy represents a haloalkyl group as defined above with the indicated number of carbon atoms attached through a sulphur bridge for example trifluoromethyl S and pentafluoroethyl S .

The term benzyl as used herein refers to a methyl group on which one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a phenyl group.

As used herein the term heterocycle heterocyclyl or heterocyclic group is intended to mean a stable 3 4 5 6 or 7 membered monocyclic or bicyclic or 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 or 14 membered polycyclic heterocyclic ring that is saturated partially unsaturated or fully unsaturated and that contains carbon atoms and 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms independently selected from the group consisting of N O and S and including any polycyclic group in which any of the above defined heterocyclic rings is fused to a benzene ring. The nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may optionally be oxidized i.e. N O and S O wherein p is 0 1 or 2 . The nitrogen atom may be substituted or unsubstituted i.e. N or NR wherein R is H or another substituent if defined . The heterocyclic ring may be attached to its pendant group at any heteroatom or carbon atom that results in a stable structure. The heterocyclic rings described herein may be substituted on carbon or on a nitrogen atom if the resulting compound is stable. A nitrogen in the heterocycle may optionally be quaternized. It is preferred that when the total number of S and O atoms in the heterocycle exceeds 1 then these heteroatoms are not adjacent to one another. It is preferred that the total number of S and O atoms in the heterocycle is not more than 1. When the term heterocycle is used it is intended to include heteroaryl.

Examples of heterocycles include but are not limited to acridinyl azetidinyl azocinyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl benzothiofuranyl benzothiophenyl benzoxazolyl benzoxazolinyl benzthiazolyl benztriazolyl benztetrazolyl benzisoxazolyl benzisothiazolyl benzimidazolinyl carbazolyl 4aH carbazolyl carbolinyl chromanyl chromenyl cinnolinyl decahydroquinolinyl 2H 6H 1 5 2 dithiazinyl dihydrofuro 2 3 b tetrahydrofuran furanyl furazanyl imidazolidinyl imidazolinyl imidazolyl 1H indazolyl imidazolopyridinyl indolenyl indolinyl indolizinyl indolyl 3H indolyl isatinoyl isobenzofuranyl isochromanyl isoindazolyl isoindolinyl isoindolyl isoquinolinyl isothiazolyl isothiazolopyridinyl isoxazolyl isoxazolopyridinyl methylenedioxyphenyl morpholinyl naphthyridinyl octahydroisoquinolinyl oxadiazolyl 1 2 3 oxadiazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl 1 2 5 oxadiazolyl 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl oxazolidinyl oxazolyl oxazolopyridinyl oxazolidinylperimidinyl oxindolyl pyrimidinyl phenanthridinyl phenanthrolinyl phenazinyl phenothiazinyl phenoxathiinyl phenoxazinyl phthalazinyl piperazinyl piperidinyl piperidonyl 4 piperidonyl piperonyl pteridinyl purinyl pyranyl pyrazinyl pyrazolidinyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolopyridinyl pyrazolyl pyridazinyl pyridooxazolyl pyridoimidazolyl pyridothiazolyl pyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyrrolidinyl pyrrolinyl 2 pyrrolidonyl 2H pyrrolyl pyrrolyl quinazolinyl quinolinyl 4H quinolizinyl quinoxalinyl quinuclidinyl tetrazolyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl 6H 1 2 5 thiadiazinyl 1 2 3 thiadiazolyl 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl 1 2 5 thiadiazolyl 1 3 4 thiadiazolyl thianthrenyl thiazolyl thienyl thiazolopyridinyl thienothiazolyl thienooxazolyl thienoimidazolyl thiophenyl triazinyl 1 2 3 triazolyl 1 2 4 triazolyl 1 2 5 triazolyl 1 3 4 triazolyl and xanthenyl. Also included are fused ring and spiro compounds containing for example the above heterocycles.

As used herein the term bicyclic heterocycle or bicyclic heterocyclic group is intended to mean a stable 9 or 10 membered heterocyclic ring system which contains two fused rings and consists of carbon atoms and 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms independently selected from the group consisting of N O and S. Of the two fused rings one ring is a 5 or 6 membered monocyclic aromatic ring comprising a 5 membered heteroaryl ring a 6 membered heteroaryl ring or a benzo ring each fused to a second ring. The second ring is a 5 or 6 membered monocyclic ring which is saturated partially unsaturated or unsaturated and comprises a 5 membered heterocycle a 6 membered heterocycle or a carbocycle provided the first ring is not benzo when the second ring is a carbocycle .

The bicyclic heterocyclic group may be attached to its pendant group at any heteroatom or carbon atom which results in a stable structure. The bicyclic heterocyclic group described herein may be substituted on carbon or on a nitrogen atom if the resulting compound is stable. It is preferred that when the total number of S and O atoms in the heterocycle exceeds 1 then these heteroatoms are not adjacent to one another. It is preferred that the total number of S and O atoms in the heterocycle is not more than 1.

Examples of a bicyclic heterocyclic group are but not limited to quinolinyl isoquinolinyl phthalazinyl quinazolinyl indolyl isoindolyl indolinyl 1H indazolyl benzimidazolyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinolinyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolinyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro quinolinyl 2 3 dihydro benzofuranyl chromanyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydro quinoxalinyl and 1 2 3 4 tetrahydro quinazolinyl.

As used herein the term aromatic heterocyclic group or heteroaryl is intended to mean stable monocyclic and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons that include at least one heteroatom ring member such as sulfur oxygen or nitrogen. Heteroaryl groups include without limitation pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl furyl quinolyl isoquinolyl thienyl imidazolyl thiazolyl indolyl pyrroyl oxazolyl benzofuryl benzothienyl benzthiazolyl isoxazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl indazolyl 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl isothiazolyl purinyl carbazolyl benzimidazolyl indolinyl benzodioxolanyl and benzodioxane. Heteroaryl groups are substituted or unsubstituted. The nitrogen atom is substituted or unsubstituted i.e. N or NR wherein R is H or another substituent if defined . The nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may optionally be oxidized i.e. N O and S O wherein p is 0 1 or 2 .

Bridged rings are also included in the definition of heterocycle. A bridged ring occurs when one or more preferably one to three atoms i.e. C O N or S link two non adjacent carbon or nitrogen atoms. Examples of bridged rings include but are not limited to one carbon atom two carbon atoms one nitrogen atom two nitrogen atoms and a carbon nitrogen group. It is noted that a bridge always converts a monocyclic ring into a tricyclic ring. When a ring is bridged the substituents recited for the ring may also be present on the bridge.

The term heterocyclylalkyl refers to a heterocyclyl or substituted heterocyclyl bonded to an alkyl group connected to the carbazole core of the compound.

The term counter ion is used to represent a negatively charged species such as chloride bromide hydroxide acetate and sulfate or a positively charged species such as sodium Na potassium K ammonium RNH where n 0 4 and m 0 4 and the like.

The term electron withdrawing group EWG refers to a substituent which polarizes a bond drawing electron density towards itself and away from other bonded atoms. Examples of EWGs include but are not limited to CF CFCF CN halogen haloalkyl NO sulfone sulfoxide ester sulfonamide carboxamide alkoxy alkoxyether alkenyl alkynyl OH C O alkyl COH phenyl heteroaryl O phenyl and O heteroaryl. Preferred examples of EWG include but are not limited to CF CFCF CN halogen SO Calkyl CONH Calkyl CON Calkyl and heteroaryl. More preferred examples of EWG include but are not limited to CFand CN.

As used herein the term amine protecting group means any group known in the art of organic synthesis for the protection of amine groups which is stable to an ester reducing agent a disubstituted hydrazine R4 M and R7 M a nucleophile a hydrazine reducing agent an activator a strong base a hindered amine base and a cyclizing agent. Such amine protecting groups fitting these criteria include those listed in Wuts P. G. M. and Greene T. W. 4th Edition Wiley 2007 and Vol. 3 Academic Press New York 1981 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. Examples of amine protecting groups include but are not limited to the following 1 acyl types such as formyl trifluoroacetyl phthalyl and p toluenesulfonyl 2 aromatic carbamate types such as benzyloxycarbonyl Cbz and substituted benzyloxycarbonyls 1 p biphenyl 1 methylethoxycarbonyl and 9 fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl Fmoc 3 aliphatic carbamate types such as tert butyloxycarbonyl Boc ethoxycarbonyl diisopropylmethoxycarbonyl and allyloxycarbonyl 4 cyclic alkyl carbamate types such as cyclopentyloxycarbonyl and adamantyloxycarbonyl 5 alkyl types such as triphenylmethyl and benzyl 6 trialkylsilane such as trimethylsilane 7 thiol containing types such as phenylthiocarbonyl and dithiasuccinoyl and 8 alkyl types such as triphenylmethyl methyl and benzyl and substituted alkyl types such as 2 2 2 trichloroethyl 2 phenylethyl and t butyl and trialkylsilane types such as trimethylsilane.

As referred to herein the term substituted means that at least one hydrogen atom is replaced with a non hydrogen group provided that normal valencies are maintained and that the substitution results in a stable compound. Ring double bonds as used herein are double bonds that are formed between two adjacent ring atoms e.g. C C C N or N N .

In cases wherein there are nitrogen atoms e.g. amines on compounds of the present invention these may be converted to N oxides by treatment with an oxidizing agent e.g. mCPBA and or hydrogen peroxides to afford other compounds of this invention. Thus shown and claimed nitrogen atoms are considered to cover both the shown nitrogen and its N oxide N O derivative.

When any variable occurs more than one time in any constituent or formula for a compound its definition at each occurrence is independent of its definition at every other occurrence. Thus for example if a group is shown to be substituted with 0 3 R then said group may optionally be substituted with up to three R groups and at each occurrence R is selected independently from the definition of R. Also combinations of substituents and or variables are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds.

When a bond to a substituent is shown to cross a bond connecting two atoms in a ring then such substituent may be bonded to any atom on the ring. When a substituent is listed without indicating the atom in which such substituent is bonded to the rest of the compound of a given formula then such substituent may be bonded via any atom in such substituent. Combinations of substituents and or variables are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable is employed herein to refer to those compounds materials compositions and or dosage forms that are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity irritation allergic response and or other problem or complication commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable salts refer to derivatives of the disclosed compounds wherein the parent compound is modified by making acid or base salts thereof. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include but are not limited to mineral or organic acid salts of basic groups such as amines and alkali or organic salts of acidic groups such as carboxylic acids. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts include the conventional non toxic salts or the quaternary ammonium salts of the parent compound formed for example from non toxic inorganic or organic acids. For example such conventional non toxic salts include those derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric sulfamic phosphoric and nitric and the salts prepared from organic acids such as acetic propionic succinic glycolic stearic lactic malic tartaric citric ascorbic pamoic maleic hydroxymaleic phenylacetic glutamic benzoic salicylic sulfanilic 2 acetoxybenzoic fumaric toluenesulfonic methanesulfonic ethane disulfonic oxalic and isethionic and the like.

The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the present invention can be synthesized from the parent compound that contains a basic or acidic moiety by conventional chemical methods. Generally such salts can be prepared by reacting the free acid or base forms of these compounds with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base or acid in water or in an organic solvent or in a mixture of the two generally nonaqueous media like ether ethyl acetate ethanol isopropanol or acetonitrile are preferred. Lists of suitable salts are found in 22Edition Allen L. V. Jr. Ed. Pharmaceutical Press London UK 2012 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

In addition compounds of formula I may have prodrug forms. Any compound that will be converted in vivo to provide the bioactive agent i.e. a compound of formula I is a prodrug within the scope and spirit of the invention. Various forms of prodrugs are well known in the art. For examples of such prodrug derivatives see 

b Bundgaard H. Chapter 5 Design and Application of Prodrugs pp. 113 191 Krosgaard Larsen P. et al. eds. Harwood Academic Publishers 1991 

f Rautio J Editor . Prodrugs and Targeted Delivery Methods and Principles in Medicinal Chemistry Vol 47 Wiley VCH 2011.

Compounds containing a carboxy group can form physiologically hydrolyzable esters that serve as prodrugs by being hydrolyzed in the body to yield formula I compounds per se. Such prodrugs are preferably administered orally since hydrolysis in many instances occurs principally under the influence of the digestive enzymes. Parenteral administration may be used where the ester per se is active or in those instances where hydrolysis occurs in the blood. Examples of physiologically hydrolyzable esters of compounds of formula I include Calkyl Calkylbenzyl 4 methoxybenzyl indanyl phthalyl methoxymethyl Calkanoyloxy Calkyl e.g. acetoxymethyl pivaloyloxymethyl or propionyloxymethyl Calkoxycarbonyloxy Calkyl e.g. methoxycarbonyl oxymethyl or ethoxycarbonyloxymethyl glycyloxymethyl phenylglycyloxymethyl 5 methyl 2 oxo 1 3 dioxolen 4 yl methyl and other well known physiologically hydrolyzable esters used for example in the penicillin and cephalosporin arts. Such esters may be prepared by conventional techniques known in the art.

Preparation of prodrugs is well known in the art and described in for example King F. D. ed. The Royal Society of Chemistry Cambridge UK 2edition reproduced 2006 Testa B. et al. VCHA and Wiley VCH Zurich Switzerland 2003 Wermuth C. G. ed. 3edition Academic Press San Diego Calif. 2008 .

The present invention is intended to include all isotopes of atoms occurring in the present compounds. Isotopes include those atoms having the same atomic number but different mass numbers. By way of general example and without limitation isotopes of hydrogen include deuterium and tritium. Isotopes of carbon include C and C. Isotopically labeled compounds of the invention can generally be prepared by conventional techniques known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described herein using an appropriate isotopically labeled reagent in place of the non labeled reagent otherwise employed.

The term solvate means a physical association of a compound of this invention with one or more solvent molecules whether organic or inorganic. This physical association includes hydrogen bonding. In certain instances the solvate will be capable of isolation for example when one or more solvent molecules are incorporated in the crystal lattice of the crystalline solid. The solvent molecules in the solvate may be present in a regular arrangement and or a non ordered arrangement. The solvate may comprise either a stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amount of the solvent molecules. Solvate encompasses both solution phase and isolable solvates. Exemplary solvates include but are not limited to hydrates ethanolates methanolates and isopropanolates. Methods of solvation are generally known in the art.

As used herein the term patient refers to organisms to be treated by the methods of the present invention. Such organisms preferably include but are not limited to mammals e.g. murines simians equines bovines porcines canines felines and the like and most preferably refers to humans.

As used herein the term effective amount means that amount of a drug or pharmaceutical agent i.e. a compound of the invention that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue system animal or human that is being sought for instance by a researcher or clinician. Furthermore the term therapeutically effective amount means any amount which as compared to a corresponding subject who has not received such amount results in improved treatment healing prevention or amelioration of a disease disorder or side effect or a decrease in the rate of advancement of a disease or disorder. An effective amount can be administered in one or more administrations applications or dosages and is not intended to be limited to a particular formulation or administration route. The term also includes within its scope amounts effective to enhance normal physiological function

As used herein the term treating includes any effect e.g. lessening reducing modulating ameliorating or eliminating that results in the improvement of the condition disease disorder and the like or ameliorating a symptom thereof.

As used herein the term pharmaceutical composition refers to the combination of an active agent with a carrier inert or active making the composition especially suitable for diagnostic or therapeutic use in vivo or ex vivo.

Examples of bases include but are not limited to alkali metals e.g. sodium hydroxides alkaline earth metals e.g. magnesium hydroxides ammonia and compounds of formula NW wherein W is Calkyl and the like.

For therapeutic use salts of the compounds of the present invention are contemplated as being pharmaceutically acceptable. However salts of acids and bases that are non pharmaceutically acceptable may also find use for example in the preparation or purification of a pharmaceutically acceptable compound.

The compounds of the present invention may be prepared by methods such as those illustrated in the following Schemes utilizing chemical transformations known to those skilled in the art. Solvents temperatures pressures and other reaction conditions may readily be selected by one of ordinary skill in the art. Starting materials are commercially available or readily prepared by one of ordinary skill in the art. These Schemes are illustrative and are not meant to limit the possible techniques one skilled in the art may use to manufacture compounds disclosed herein. Different methods may be evident to those skilled in the art. Additionally the various steps in the synthesis may be performed in an alternate sequence or order to give the desired compound s . Further the representation of the reactions in these Schemes as discrete steps does not preclude their being performed in tandem either by telescoping multiple steps in the same reaction vessel or by performing multiple steps without purifying or characterizing the intermediate s . In addition many of the compounds prepared by the methods below can be further modified using conventional chemistry well known to those skilled in the art. All documents cited herein are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

References to many of these chemical transformations employed herein can be found in Smith M. B. et al. Fifth Edition Wiley Interscience New York 2001 or other standard texts on the topic of synthetic organic chemistry. Certain transformations may require that reactive functional groups be masked by protecting group s . A convenient reference which provides conditions for introduction removal and relative susceptibility to reaction conditions of these groups is Greene T. W. et al. Third Edition Wiley Interscience New York 1999 .

The invention is now described with reference to the following Examples. These Examples are provided for the purpose of illustration only and the invention should in no way be construed as being limited to these Examples but rather should be construed to encompass any and all variations which become evident as a result of the teaching provided herein.

Abbreviations as used herein are defined as follows 1 for once 2 for twice 3 for thrice C. for degrees Celsius eq for equivalent or equivalents g for gram or grams mg for milligram or milligrams L for liter or liters mL for milliliter or milliliters L for microliter or microliters N for normal M for molar mmol for millimole or millimoles min for minute or min h for hour or h rt for room temperature RT for retention time atm for atmosphere psi for pounds per square inch conc. for concentrate aq for aqueous sat or sat d for saturated MW for molecular weight mp for melting point MS or Mass Spec for mass spectrometry ESI for electrospray ionization mass spectroscopy HR for high resolution HRMS for high resolution mass spectrometry LCMS for liquid chromatography mass spectrometry HPLC for high pressure liquid chromatography RP HPLC for reverse phase HPLC TLC or tlc for thin layer chromatography NMR for nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy nOe for nuclear Overhauser effect spectroscopy H for proton for delta s for singlet d for doublet t for triplet q for quartet m for multiplet br for broad Hz for hertz and R S E and Z are stereochemical designations familiar to one skilled in the art.

The compounds of the present invention can be prepared in a number of ways known to one skilled in the art of organic synthesis. The compounds of the present invention can be synthesized using the methods described below together with synthetic methods known in the art of synthetic organic chemistry or by variations thereon as appreciated by those skilled in the art. Preferred methods include but are not limited to those described below. The reactions are performed in a solvent or solvent mixture appropriate to the reagents and materials employed and suitable for the transformations being effected. It will be understood by those skilled in the art of organic synthesis that the functionality present on the molecule should be consistent with the transformations proposed. This will sometimes require a judgment to modify the order of the synthetic steps or to select one particular process scheme over another in order to obtain a desired compound of the invention.

The novel compounds of this invention may be prepared using the reactions and techniques described in this section. Also in the description of the synthetic methods described below it is to be understood that all proposed reaction conditions including choice of solvent reaction atmosphere reaction temperature duration of the experiment and workup procedures are chosen to be the conditions standard for that reaction which should be readily recognized by one skilled in the art. Restrictions to the substituents that are compatible with the reaction conditions will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art and alternate methods must then be used.

The Compounds of Formula I may be prepared by the exemplary processes described in the following schemes and working examples as well as relevant published literature procedures that are used by one skilled in the art. Exemplary reagents and procedures for these reactions appear hereinafter and in the working examples. Protection and de protection in the processes below may be carried out by procedures generally known in the art see for example Greene T. W. et al. 3rd Edition Wiley 1999 . General methods of organic synthesis and functional group transformations are found in Trost B. M. et al. eds. Pergamon Press New York N.Y. 1991 March J. 4th Edition Wiley Sons New York N.Y. 1992 Katritzky A. R. et al. eds. 1st Edition Elsevier Science Inc. Tarrytown N.Y. 1995 Larock R. C. VCH Publishers Inc. New York N.Y. 1989 and references therein.

Compounds i where X F and Z can be Br Cl and I are commercially available or can be prepared utilizing standard transformations known to those of ordinary proficiency in the art of organic medicinal chemistry. Treatment of compounds i with amines HNRR Scheme 1 and a suitable base in a solvent such as THF DMF NMP or the like affords intermediates ii . Generally heating is required. Suitable bases include but are not limited to aliphatic tertiary amines or an excess of the reacting primary or secondary amine HNRR. Treatment of compounds ii under standard Heck palladium coupling conditions such as a Pdcatalyst Pd OAc and olefin containing compounds iii in a solvent such as THF yields compounds iv . Reduction of the olefin and the nitroaromatic found in compounds iv can be reduced under reductive conditions such as but not limited to Pd C under an atmosphere of Hand in a solvent such as ethyl acetate or methanol to afford saturated aniline compounds v . Treatment of anilines v with an isocyanate RN C O affords urea compounds vi . Typically this reaction is performed in a solvent such as THF at a temperature between ambient and the boiling point of the solvent. Esters vi may be converted to the corresponding carboxylic acids of the invention I under various conditions familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art. Generally this is effected using an alkali metal hydroxide MOH in aqueous solution preferably with an organic co solvent such as methanol or THF.

Treatment of compounds carbonyl containing compounds vii where X F and Z can be Br Cl and I with amines HNRR Scheme 1 and a suitable base in a solvent such as THF DMF NMP or the like affords intermediates ii . Generally heating is required. Suitable bases include but are not limited to aliphatic tertiary amines or an excess of the reacting primary or secondary amine HNRR. Olefination of the carbonyl aldehyde or ketone can be accomplished by many methods that are well known to those skilled in the art such as Horner Wadsworth Emmons conditions as shown in Scheme 2. In practice the carbonyl compounds ix can be treated with a phosphonic ester x in the presence of a base such as sodium hexamethyldisilazane NaHMDS to afford olefins iv . Olefins iv can be converted to compounds of the invention I by methods described in Scheme 1.

In Scheme 3 reduction of the nitro group in compounds ii to afford anilines xi can be effected by various means including catalytic hydrogenation and dissolving metal reductions both in their various forms. See Modern Synthetic Reactions Second Edition by Herbert O. House Benjamin Cummings Menlo Park Calif. 1972. A preferred method for effecting this reduction without removal of the halogen substituent Z involves stirring a solution of ii in a wet alcoholic solvent with an acid such as ammonium chloride and finely divided zinc. The anilines xi can be couple to the olefins xii under standard Heck coupling conditions with a Pdcatalyst such as Pd OAc to afford the olefins xiii . The aniline compounds xiii can then be converted to compounds of the invention I by treatment with an isocyanate as previously described.

As shown in Scheme 4 compounds v prepared by the methods described above may be coupled with carboxylic acids using peptide coupling reagents such as Bop Pybop HATU or a similar reagent and a suitable base in a solvent such as THF DMF NMP or the like to afford intermediates xv . The use of such peptide coupling reagents has been reviewed by Han S Y et al. 60 2447 2467 2004 . Suitable bases include but are not limited to aliphatic tertiary amines. Alternatively amines v could react with acid chlorides of the formula RCHCOCl to give amides xv again in a solvent in the presence of a base. Conversion of xv to compounds of the invention I is accomplished by hydrolysis of the ester by methods described previously to afford a compound of the invention I.

In Scheme 5 compounds iv may be treated with an appropriate organometallic such as a cuprate to afford compounds xvi where R5 has been installed beta to the ester carbonyl. These reactions are well known to those skilled in the art and comprise an alkyl or aryl Grignard reagent such as R MgBr and a Cureagent such as Copper I iodide. The cuprate that is so formed can then add in a 1 4 sense to the unsaturated ester iv to give the compounds xvi which can be converted to compounds of the Invention I by methods described previously.

Scheme 6 below demonstrates the preparation of compounds of the invention I where Rand Rhave been joined to form a cyclpropane. The benzyl bromide xvii can be purchased or synthesized by one of ordinary skills in the art. Treatment of xvii with a cyanide anion source such as potassium cyanide in the presence of a base such as potassium carbonate will afford the nitrile compounds xviii. Treatment of xviii with HNRR as described previously will afford the amine compounds xix . Cyclpropane formation can be accomplished by several methods known to one skilled in the art. One method uses 1 bromo 2 chloroethane in the presence of a strong base such as sodium hydride to afford the cyclopropane xx . Hydrolysis of the nitrile xx can be accomplished by first treating with a strong base such as potassium hyroxide at elevated temperatures to afford the corresponding carboxylic acids xxi . A one carbon homologation of the acids xxi can be accomplished by several methods known to one skilled in the art. Scheme 6 depicts a three step process from xxi to produce the homologated analogs xxii Qiao J. et al PCT Int Appl 2003099276. The acids xxii can then be converted to compounds of the invention I by methods discussed previously.

Scheme 7 below shows the preparation of oxetane compounds of the invention I. 2 oxetanone is commercially available and can be treated under standard Horner Wadsworth Emmons olefination conditions using a phosphonate x in the presence of a base such as lithium hexamethyldisilazane LiHMDS to afford the unsaturated ester xxxiv . Rhodium catalyzed 1 4 conjugate addition of a boronic acid xxv and an unsaturated ester xxiv are well known Zou G. et al Dalton Trans. 28 3055 2007 and can be accomplished using a rhodiumcatalyst for example Rh COD Cl in the presence of a strong base such as KOH to afford the oxetanes xxvi with an exocyclic olefin. The oxetanes xxvi can be converted to compounds of the invention I by methods previously described.

Scheme 8 depicts the preparation of compounds of the invention I where X OR. Compounds xxvii which can be purchased can be treated with an allyl halide xxviii such as allyl iodide and a base such as potassium carbonate in solvent such as DMF to afford the alkyl ether xxix . Heating may be required for ether formation. The allyl ether xxix can be encouraged to undergo a 3 3 sigmatropic rearrangement by heating to high temperatures for example 155 C. in a solvent such as diglyme to afford the phenolic compounds xxx with the allyl group transferred to the adjacent ortho position of the aryl ring. The phenol xxx can be treated with a base and an alkyl halide R Z in a solvent such as THF at room temperature or elevated temperatures to afford the aryl ethers xxxi . Reduction of the aryl nitro group and the olefin with catalytic Pd C and hydrogen gas as described previously will afford the saturated aniline compounds xxxii which can be converted to a compound of the invention I by methods already described.

Scheme 8 depicts the preparation of compounds of the invention I where X OR. Compounds xxvii which can be purchased or readily prepared by one skilled in the art can be treated with an allyl alcohol xxviii and a base such as LiHMDS in a solvent such as THF to afford the alkyl ether xxix . The allyl ether xxix can be encouraged to undergo a 3 3 sigmatropic rearrangement by heating to high temperatures for example 155 C. in a solvent such as diglyme to afford the phenolic compounds xxx with the allyl group transferred to the ortho position of the aryl ring. The phenol xxx can be treated sequentially with a base and an alkyl halide R Z where Z Br or I in a solvent such as THF at room temperature or elevated temperatures to afford the aryl ethers xxxi . Reduction of the aryl nitro group and the olefin with catalytic Pd C and hydrogen gas as described previously will afford the saturated aniline compounds xxxii which can be converted to a compound of the invention I by methods previously described.

In another embodiment depicted in Scheme 9 the aryl halides i can be treated with an alcohol R OH in the presence of a base such as BuLi in a solvent such as THF to afford the aryl ether xxxiii . The aryl ethers xxxiii can be converted to compounds of the invention I by methods already described herein.

The following Examples are offered as illustrative as a partial scope and particular embodiments of the invention and are not meant to be limiting of the scope of the invention. Abbreviations and chemical symbols have their usual and customary meanings unless otherwise indicated. Unless otherwise indicated the compounds described herein have been prepared isolated and characterized using the schemes and other methods disclosed herein or may be prepared using the same.

HPLC MS and Preparatory Analytical HPLC Methods Employed in Characterization or Purification of Examples

Method A Shimadzu SCL 10A liquid chromatographs and Waters MICROMASS ZQ Mass Spectrometers Desalvation Gas Nitrogen Desalvation Temp. 250 C. Ion Source Temp 120 C. Positive Electrospray conditions using the following method Linear Gradient of 0 to 100 solvent B over 4 min UV visualization at 220 nm Column Waters Sunfire C18 2.1 mm 30 mm 2.5 um particle Heated to Temp. 40 C. Flow rate 1 ml min Mobile phase A 10 MeOH 90 Water 0.1 TFA Mobile phase B 90 MeOH 10 Water 0.1 TFA 

Method B Waters Acquity SDS using the following method Linear Gradient of 2 to 98 solvent B over 1.6 min UV visualization at 220 nm Column BEH C18 2.1 mm 50 mm 1.7 um particle Heated to Temp. 50 C. Flow rate 1 ml min Mobile phase A 100 Water 0.05 TFA Mobile phase B 100 Acetonitrile 0.05 TFA 

Method C Phenomenex Luna C18 3 um 4.6 30 mm 0 B 95 B with flow rate 4 mL min and 2 min gradient time Mobile phase A 10 water 90 acetonitrile with 10 mM NHOAc Mobile phase B 10 water 90 acetonitrile with 10 mM NHOAc wavelength 220 nM.

Method D Phenomenex Luna C18 2.0 30 mm 5 m particles Mobile Phase A 10 90 water MeOH 0.1 TFA Mobile Phase B 10 90 water MeOH 0.1 TFA Temperature RT Gradient 0 100 B over 2 minutes then a 0.5 minute hold at 100 B Flow 1.5 mL min.

Method E YMC S5 ODS 4.6 50 mm 1.7 m particles Mobile Phase A 10 MeOH 90 HO 0.2 HPO Mobile Phase B 90 MeOH 10 HO 0.2 HPO Temperature 40 C. Gradient 0 100 B over 4 minutes then a 1 minute hold at 100 B Flow 4 mL min.

Method F Waters Acquity UPLC Column BEH C18 2.1 50 mm 1.7 m particles Mobile Phase A 5 95 acetonitrile water with 0.05 TFA Mobile Phase B 95 5 acetonitrile water with 0.05 TFA Temperature 50 C. Gradient 0 100 B over 3 minutes then a 0.75 minute hold at 100 B Flow 1.11 mL min.

Preparatory chiral SFC chromatography was performed on a Thar 350 SFC chromatograph using the following method 

Method G UV visualization at 220 nm Column Chiralpak AD H SFC 5 25 cm ID 5 m Flow rate 60.0 mL min 100 bar backpressure Temperature 40 C. and Mobile Phase 92 8 CO MeOH.

Analytical chiral SFC chromatography was performed on a Berger Analytical parallel SFC chromatography using the following method 

Method H UV visualization at 220 nm Column RR Whelk O1 250 4.6 mm ID 5 m Flow rate 2 mL min 150 bar backpressure and Mobile Phase 80 20 CO MeOH.

Method I SFC UV visualization at 220 nm Column AD 250 4.6 mm ID 5 m Flow rate 3 mL min 100 bar backpressure and Mobile Phase 85 15 CO MeOH.

Spectral data are reported as chemical shift multiplicity number of hydrogens coupling constants in Hz and are reported in ppm units relative to either an internal standard tetramethyl silane 0 ppm for H NMR spectra or are referenced to the residual solvent peak 2.49 ppm for CDSOCDH 3.30 ppm for CDHOD 1.94 for CHDCN 7.26 ppm for CHCl 5.32 ppm for CDHCl .

A suspension containing 4 fluoro 3 nitrobenzaldehyde 7.000 g 41.4 mmol cesium carbonate 20.23 g 62.1 mmol and diisobutylamine 16.05 g 124 mmol in DMF 70 mL was heated to 100 C. for 1 h. After cooling to RT the mixture was diluted with water and EtOAc. The layers were separated and the aqueous phase extracted with EtOAc 2 25 mL . The organic layers were combined washed with water brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Purification by flash chromatography gave 1A orange solid 10.79 g 38.8 mmol 94 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO278.16 found M H 279.3. T 1.12 min Method B . H NMR 400 MHz METHANOL d 9.79 s 1H 8.25 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.93 dd J 8.9 2.1 Hz 1H 7.40 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 3.14 d J 7.3 Hz 4H 2.02 dt J 13.4 6.9 Hz 2H 0.97 0.78 m 12H 

To a solution of sodium hydride 17.24 mg 0.431 mmol in 2 mL of THF at 0 C. was added ethyl 2 diethoxyphosphoryl propanoate 103 mg 0.431 mmol dropwise. The resulting suspension turned into a clear solution. After stirring at the same temperature for 10 min a 2 mL THF solution of 1A 100 mg 0.359 mmol was added slowly and the resulting solution was warmed up to RT and stirred for 1 h. LC MS showed product formation it was diluted with EtOAc 10 mL and water 10 mL . Aqueous layer was further extracted with EtOAc 2 10 mL the combined extracts were washed with water brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave E ethyl 3 4 diisobutylamino 3 nitrophenyl 2 methylacrylate light yellow oil 50 mg 0.138 mmol 38.4 yield . To a stirred solution of the E ethyl 3 4 diisobutylamino 3 nitrophenyl 2 methylacrylate obtained above 50 mg 0.138 mmol in MeOH 4 mL was added palladium on carbon 14.68 mg 0.014 mmol and the suspension was hydrogenated 1 atm balloon for 3 h. LC MS indicated completion. The suspension was filtered through a pad of Celite and the filter cake was rinsed with EtOAc 20 mL . Combined filtrate and rinses were evaporated in vacuo to obtain 1B light yellow oil 25 mg 0.07 mmol 54 yield . 1B was used without purification in the next step. LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO334.26 found M H 335.41. T 3.06 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 6.96 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 6.57 6.48 m 2H 4.17 4.02 m 4H 2.90 dd J 13.4 6.8 Hz 1H 2.73 2.63 m 1H 2.57 d J 7.3 Hz 4H 2.55 2.46 m 1H 1.73 dquin J 13.5 6.8 Hz 2H 1.19 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 1.14 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.90 d J 6.6 Hz 12H 

To a solution of 1B 25 mg 0.075 mmol in THF 1.5 mL was added 1 isocyanato 4 methylbenzene 29.9 mg 0.224 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred at rt for 2 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and used without purification in the next step. The crude ester was dissolved in THF 1.500 mL and Water 0.450 mL then sodium hydroxide 0.224 mL 0.224 mmol was added. A solid precipitated. MeOH 1 mL was added. After 16 h MeOH and THF were removed in vacuo and the crude material was diluted with 2 mL of water and the pH adjusted to 4 using 1N HCl. The aqueous phase was then extracted with EtOAc 2 20 mL and the combined organic phase was washed with brine dried with NaSOand concentrated to afford the title compound 32.6 mg 0.074 mmol 99 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO439.28 found M H 440.37. T 3.40 min Method A . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 9.33 s 1H 7.88 7.76 m 2H 7.35 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.15 7.04 m 3H 6.77 dd J 8.2 1.7 Hz 1H 2.85 dd J 13.1 6.7 Hz 1H 2.62 d J 6.9 Hz 4H 2.59 2.53 m 1H 2.24 s 3H 1.62 dquin J 13.4 6.7 Hz 2H 1.03 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.83 d J 6.9 Hz 12H 

Chiral separation of 1C gave 1D Enantiomer 1 and Enantiomer 2 absolute stereochemistry is unknown Preparative chiral separation Method G of 1C gave 1D Enantiomer 1 and Enantiomer 2 absolute stereochemistry is unknown. Enantiomer 1 Chiral HPLC T 7.57 min Method H Enantiomer 1 LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO439.28 found M H 440.36. T 3.43 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 8.17 8.04 m 2H 7.24 7.16 m 2H 7.15 7.07 m 2H 7.01 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 6.96 br. s. 1H 6.78 dd J 8.0 1.7 Hz 1H 3.01 dd J 13.1 7.2 Hz 1H 2.79 2.71 m 1H 2.70 2.61 m 1H 2.53 2.41 m 4H 2.32 s 3H 1.59 dquin J 13.5 6.8 Hz 2H 1.18 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.74 dd J 6.6 3.5 Hz 12H Enantiomer 2 Chiral HPLC T 9.03 min Method H LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO439.28 found M H 440.34. T 3.32 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 8.17 8.03 m 2H 7.23 7.16 m 2H 7.15 7.07 m 2H 7.01 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 6.96 br. s. 1H 6.78 dd J 8.1 1.5 Hz 1H 3.01 dd J 13.1 7.4 Hz 1H 2.79 2.69 m 1H 2.66 d J 13.2 Hz 1H 2.55 2.39 m 4H 2.32 s 3H 1.59 dquin J 13.4 6.7 Hz 2H 1.18 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.74 dd J 6.6 3.7 Hz 12H .

To a solution of oxetan 3 one 500 mg 6.94 mmol in CHCl 14 mL at 0 C. was added ethyl 2 triphenylphosphoranylidene acetate 2659 mg 7.63 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to RT and stirred for 2 h. LC MS indicated the desired peak. The reaction mixture was then quenched with water 5 mL extracted with CHCl 2 10 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave 2A colorless oil 800 mg 5.63 mmol 81 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHO142.06 found M H 143.11. T 1.65 min Method B . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 5.62 quin J 2.4 Hz 1H 5.54 5.44 m 2H 5.29 td J 3.5 2.2 Hz 2H 4.15 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.26 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 

To a solution of Rh COD Cl 26.0 mg 0.053 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 5 mL was added potassium hydroxide 0.915 mL 1.372 mmol followed by 2A 150 mg 1.055 mmol rinsed with 1 mL 1 4 dioxane and a solution of 4 fluoro 3 nitrophenyl boronic acid 293 mg 1.583 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 1.000 mL . After addition of potassium hydroxide the solution turned into a yellow suspension. After addition of oxetane it turned into a clear brown solution. After stirring at RT for 12 h LC MS showed a new peak. Heated at 50 C. for 2 h no change. After cooling to RT it was diluted with 5 mL of brine and 10 mL of EtOAc. The aqueous layer was further extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL and the combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave 2B yellow solid 30 mg 0.106 mmol 10.04 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHFNO283.09 did not show parent ion in MS T 2.48 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 7.90 dd J 6.9 2.5 Hz 1H 7.55 ddd J 8.6 4.1 2.4 Hz 1H 7.30 dd J 10.3 8.6 Hz 1H 4.96 d J 6.4 Hz 2H 4.88 d J 6.6 Hz 2H 4.05 q J 7.0 Hz 2H 3.18 s 2H 1.18 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 

To a flask containing 2B 30 mg 0.106 mmol in DMF 1 mL was added diisobutylamine 110 mg 0.847 mmol and cesium carbonate 41.4 mg 0.127 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 3 h. LC MS indicated the desired peak. Then it was heated at 110 C. for 4 h. LC MS indicated completion. After cooling to RT it was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and water 10 mL . Aqueous layer was further extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL the combined extracts were washed with water brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave 2C yellow oil 18 mg 0.046 mmol 43.3 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO392.23 found M H 393.23. T 3.79 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 7.52 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 7.30 7.23 m 1H 7.10 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 4.95 d J 6.2 Hz 2H 4.85 d J 6.2 Hz 2H 4.04 q J 7.0 Hz 2H 3.10 s 2H 2.92 d J 7.3 Hz 4H 1.90 dquin J 13.5 6.8 Hz 2H 1.14 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 0.84 d J 6.6 Hz 12H 

To a stirred solution of 2C 18 mg 0.046 mmol in ethyl acetate 2.00 mL was added palladium on carbon 9.76 mg 9.17 mol and the suspension was hydrogenated 1 atm balloon for 1 hour. The suspension was then filtered through a pad of Celite. The filter cake was rinsed with EtOAc 2 and the combined filtrate and rinses were evaporated in vacuo. To this crude aniline solution in THF 2 mL was added 1 isocyanato 4 methylbenzene 9.16 mg 0.069 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred at rt for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated and used without purification in the next step. The crude ester was dissolved in THF 1.000 mL and Water 0.500 mL then sodium hydroxide 1M solution 0.138 mL 0.138 mmol was added. A precipitate formed then MeOH 1 mL was added. After 16 hours the MeOH and THF were removed in vacuo and the crude was diluted with 2 mL of water. The pH was adjusted to 4 using 1N HCl. The aqueous phase was then extracted with EtOAc 3 and the combined organic phase was washed with brine dried with NaSOand concentrated. The crude material was purified via preparative LC MS with the following conditions Column Waters XBridge C18 19 150 mm 5 m particles Guard Column Waters XBridge C18 19 10 mm 5 m particles Mobile Phase A 5 95 acetonitrile water with 10 mM ammonium acetate Mobile Phase B 95 5 acetonitrile water with 10 mM ammonium acetate Gradient 15 100 B over 15 minutes then a 5 minute hold at 100 B Flow 20 mL min. Fractions containing the desired product were combined and dried via centrifugal evaporation to afford the title compound 14.4 mg 0.027 mmol 58 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO467.28 found M H 468.25. T 3.34 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 7.41 7.33 m 3H 7.32 7.20 m 2H 7.12 d J 7.9 Hz 2H 5.00 4.85 m 4H 3.24 d J 6.6 Hz 4H 3.13 s 2H 2.38 2.27 m 3H 2.15 2.02 m 2H 1.05 d J 5.9 Hz 12H 

To a flask containing 1 4 fluoro 3 nitrophenyl ethanone 1.700 g 9.28 mmol in DMF 30 mL was added diisobutylamine 1 g 7.74 mmol and cesium carbonate 3.03 g 9.28 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 3 h. LC MS indicated product formation. After cooling to RT it was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and water 10 mL . Aqueous layer was further extracted with EtOAc 2 20 mL the combined extracts were washed with water brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave 3A oragne oil 1.6 g 5.47 mmol 70.7 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO292.18 found M H 293.25. T 3.65 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 8.34 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 7.96 dd J 9.0 2.2 Hz 1H 7.10 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 3.03 d J 7.3 Hz 4H 2.55 s 3H 1.98 dquin J 13.5 6.8 Hz 2H 0.86 d J 6.6 Hz 12H 

To a solution of NaH 0.482 g 12.04 mmol in THF 40 mL at 0 C. was added added ethyl 2 diethoxyphosphoryl acetate 2.191 mL 10.94 mmol . After stirring for 30 min a solution of 3A 2.191 mL 10.94 mmol in THF 10 mL was added. After stirring at RT for 36 h. LC MS indicated 1.5 1 starting material and desired product. Heated the reaction mixture at 50 C. for 12 h ratio changed to 1 1 but stopped changing. After cooling to RT it was quenched with 10 mL saturated aqueous NHCl. The aqueous layer was further extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL and the combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave E isomer of 3B orange oil 0.4 g 1.104 mmol 20.17 yield and Z isomer of 3B orange oil 0.03 g 0.083 mmol 1.512 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO362.22 found M H 363.22. T 4.03 min E and 4.24 min Z Method A . Major E isomer H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 7.90 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 7.53 dd J 8.8 2.4 Hz 1H 7.08 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 6.14 d J 1.3 Hz 1H 4.22 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 2.98 d J 7.3 Hz 4H 2.56 d J 1.1 Hz 3H 2.01 1.89 m 2H 1.33 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 0.85 d J 6.6 Hz 12H Minor Z isomer H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 7.67 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 7.32 dd J 8.7 2.3 Hz 1H 7.05 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 5.90 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 4.06 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 2.95 d J 7.3 Hz 4H 2.18 d J 1.5 Hz 3H 1.94 dt J 13.5 6.8 Hz 2H 1.14 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.91 0.80 m 12H 

To a stirred solution of the E isomer 3B 200 mg 0.552 mmol in ethyl acetate 10 mL was added palladium on carbon 58.7 mg 0.055 mmol and the suspension was hydrogenated 1 atm balloon for 2 h. LC MS indicated completion. The suspension was filtered through a pad of Celite and the filter cake was rinsed with EtOAc 3 20 mL . Combined filtrate and rinses were concentrated in vacuo. Purification via flash chromatography gave 3C light yellow oil 140 mg 0.419 mmol 76 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO334.26 found M H 335.31. T 3.09 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 6.98 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 6.62 6.51 m 2H 4.09 q J 7.3 Hz 4H 2 proton from NH 3.20 3.08 m 1H 2.63 2.52 m 5H 2.51 2.40 m 1H 1.73 dquin J 13.5 6.8 Hz 2H 1.26 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.18 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 0.90 d J 6.6 Hz 12H 

To a solution of 3C 70 mg 0.209 mmol in THF 2 mL was added 1 isocyanato 4 methylbenzene 41.8 mg 0.314 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred at rt for 1 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and used without purification in the next step. The crude ester was dissolved in THF 2 mL and Water 1 mL then sodium hydroxide 0.628 mL 0.628 mmol was added. A precipitate formed then MeOH 1 mL was added. After 20 h most of the MeOH and THF were removed in vacuo and the crude was diluted with 2 mL of water. The pH was adjusted to 4 using 1N HCl. The aqueous phase was then extracted with EtOAc 3 and the combined organic phase was washed with brine dried with NaSOand concentrated. The crude material was purified via preparative LC MS with the following conditions Column Waters XBridge C18 19 250 mm 5 m particles Guard Column Waters XBridge C18 19 10 mm 5 m particles Mobile Phase A 5 95 acetonitrile water with 10 mM ammonium acetate Mobile Phase B 95 5 acetonitrile water with 10 mM ammonium acetate Gradient 25 100 B over 25 minutes then a 5 minute hold at 100 B Flow 20 mL min. Fractions containing the desired product were combined and dried via centrifugal evaporation. The material was further purified via preparative LC MS with the following conditions Column Waters XBridge C18 19 250 mm 5 m particles Guard Column Waters XBridge C18 19 10 mm 5 m particles Mobile Phase A 5 95 acetonitrile water with 10 mM ammonium acetate Mobile Phase B 95 5 acetonitrile water with 10 mM ammonium acetate Gradient 55 95 B over 25 minutes then a 15 minute hold at 100 B Flow 20 mL min. Fractions containing the desired product were combined and dried via centrifugal evaporation to afford the title compound 65.4 mg 0.149 mmol 71 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO439.28 found M H 440.32. T 3.41 min Method A . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 9.32 s 1H 7.88 7.79 m 2H 7.35 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.09 dd J 16.1 8.2 Hz 3H 6.83 dd J 8.4 2.0 Hz 1H 3.10 3.02 m 1H 2.61 d J 6.9 Hz 4H 2.44 2.34 m 2H 2.24 s 3H 1.68 1.53 m 2H 1.18 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.84 d J 6.4 Hz 12H .

Racemic example 4 was obtained following the same procedure of Example 3 utilizing 2 fluoroaniline for urea formation. Enantiomer 1 and Enantiomer 2 were obtained by chiral HPLC Method G absolute stereochemistry unknown. Enantiomer 1 Analytical Chiral HPLC Tr 5.642 min Method H LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHFNO443.26 found M H 444.16. T 3.32 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 8.36 s 1H 8.16 8.05 m 2H 7.18 6.97 m 4H 6.88 dd J 8.1 2.2 Hz 1H 6.54 d J 3.3 Hz 1H 3.34 3.20 m 1H 2.75 2.65 m 1H 2.64 2.53 m 5H 1.72 dquin J 13.5 6.8 Hz 2H 1.35 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.91 d J 6.6 Hz 12H Enantiomer 2 Analytical Chiral HPLC Tr 6.293 min Method H LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHFNO443.26 found M H 444.17. T 3.30 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 8.36 s 1H 8.18 8.04 m 2H 7.21 6.97 m 4H 6.88 dd J 8.1 2.0 Hz 1H 6.55 d J 2.9 Hz 1H 3.35 3.19 m 1H 2.76 2.64 m 1H 2.64 2.52 m 5H 1.72 dquin J 13.4 6.8 Hz 2H 1.34 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.91 d J 6.6 Hz 12H 

Example 5 was obtained following the same procedure of Example 3 utilizing 3 fluoro 4 chloroaniline in the urea formation. LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHClFNO477.22 found M H 478.17. T 3.63 min Method A . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 9.44 s 1H 8.12 s 1H 8.06 t J 8.9 Hz 1H 7.75 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.45 dd J 10.9 2.5 Hz 1H 7.26 7.18 m 1H 7.14 7.06 m 1H 6.87 dd J 8.4 2.0 Hz 1H 3.11 3.01 m 1H 2.64 d J 6.9 Hz 4H 2.48 2.37 m 2H 1.64 dquin J 13.2 6.7 Hz 2H 1.18 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.83 d J 6.4 Hz 12H 

Example 6 was obtained following the same procedure of Example 3 utilizing 4 ethoxyaniline in the urea formation. LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO469.29 found M H 470.24. T 3.41 min Method A . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 9.21 s 1H 7.95 s 1H 7.87 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.43 7.29 m 2H 7.11 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.90 6.74 m 3H 3.97 q J 6.9 Hz 2H 3.12 2.99 m 1H 2.60 d J 6.9 Hz 4H 2.48 2.35 m 2H 1.68 1.53 m 2H 1.31 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 1.18 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.84 d J 6.9 Hz 12H 

Example 7 was obtained following the same procedure of example 3 except for the urea formation step To a solution of triphosgene 89 mg 0.299 mmol in THF 2 mL was added 6 methylpyridin 3 amine 81 mg 0.747 mmol and Hunig s Base 0.261 mL 1.495 mmol . After stirring for 1 h ethyl 3 3 amino 4 diisobutylamino phenyl butanoate 50 mg 0.149 mmol in THF 2.000 mL was added. The resulting solution was stirred at RT for 1 h. After removing solvent in vacuo the crude ester was dissolved in THF 1.000 mL and water 0.200 mL then 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide 0.448 mL 0.448 mmol was added. MeOH 1 mL was added to dissolve the precipitate and it turned into a clear yellow solution. After 48 h reaction was complete by LC MS. Most MeOH and THF was removed in vacuo and the crude was diluted with 2 mL of water the pH was adjusted to ca. 6 using 1N aqueous HCl. The aqueous phase was then extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL and the combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Preparative HPLC gave example 7 light yellow oil 43 mg 0.097 mmol 65 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO440.28 found M H 441.19. T 2.83 min Method A . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 8.47 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.89 7.80 m 2H 7.15 dd J 14.9 8.4 Hz 2H 6.85 dd J 7.9 2.0 Hz 1H 3.11 3.03 m 1H 2.63 d J 6.9 Hz 4H 2.48 2.41 m 2H 2.40 s 3H 1.62 dquin J 13.4 6.7 Hz 2H 1.19 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.85 d J 6.4 Hz 12H 

To a solution of NaH 0.480 g 12.01 mmol in THF 40 mL at 0 C. was added ethyl 2 diethoxyphosphoryl acetate 2.186 mL 10.92 mmol . After stirring for 2 h a solution of 1 4 fluoro 3 nitrophenyl ethanone 2.19 mL 10.92 mmol in THF 10 mL was added. The resulting solution was slowly warmed up to RT and stirred for 20 h. LC MS indicated desired product. It was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl. The aqueous layer was further extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL and the combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave ethyl 3 4 fluoro 3 nitrophenyl but 2 enoate orange oil 700 mg 2.76 mmol 50.6 yield To a flask containing above obtained ethyl 3 4 fluoro 3 nitrophenyl but 2 enoate 300 mg 1.185 mmol in DMF 10 mL was added N 4 chlorobenzyl 2 methoxyethanamine hydrochloride 308 mg 1.303 mmol and cesium carbonate 463 mg 1.422 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 16 h. After cooling to RT it was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and water 10 mL . Aqueous layer was further extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL the combined extracts were washed with water brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave ethyl 3 4 4 chlorobenzyl 2 methoxyethyl amino 3 nitrophenyl but 2 enoate yellow oil 200 mg 0.462 mmol 39.0 yield . To a stirred solution of the above obtained ethyl 3 4 4 chlorobenzyl 2 methoxyethyl amino 3 nitrophenyl but 2 enoate 200 mg 0.462 mmol in ethyl acetate 10 mL was added palladium on carbon 49.2 mg 0.046 mmol and the suspension was hydrogenated 1 atm balloon for 1 h. The suspension was filtered through a pad of Celite and the filter cake was rinsed with EtOAc 3 20 mL . Combined filtrate and rinses were concentrated in vacuo. Purification via flash chromatography gave ethyl 3 3 amino 4 4 chlorobenzyl 2 methoxyethyl amino phenyl butanoate yellow oil 120 mg 0.296 mmol 64.1 yield . To a solution of ethyl 3 3 amino 4 4 chlorobenzyl 2 methoxyethyl amino phenyl butanoate obtained above 120 mg 0.296 mmol in THF 8 mL was added 1 isocyanato 4 methylbenzene 59.2 mg 0.445 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred at RT for 2 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave 12 mg urea product. This ester was dissolved in THF 2.000 mL and water 1.000 mL then 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide 0.889 mL 0.889 mmol was added. MeOH 2 mL was added to dissolve the precipitate and it turned into a clear yellow solution. After 24 h reaction was complete by LC MS. Most MeOH and THF was removed in vacuo and the crude was diluted with 2 mL of water the pH was adjusted to ca.4 using 1N aqueous HCl. The aqueous phase was then extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL and the combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over NaSOand concentrated. Preparative HPLC gave example 8 light yellow oil 2.5 mg 0.0049 mmol 1.7 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHClNO509.21 found M H 510.16. T 3.69 min Method A . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 8.30 d J 1.0 Hz 2H 7.94 s 1H 7.39 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.35 7.30 m 2H 7.29 7.22 m 2H 7.09 d J 7.9 Hz 3H 6.74 dd J 8.4 2.0 Hz 1H 3.17 s 3H 3.07 2.95 m 4H 2.40 2.26 m 2H 2.25 s 3H 1.13 d J 6.4 Hz 3H some peaks buried under DMSO 

To a solution of triphenylphosphine 1086 mg 4.14 mmol in THF 10 mL was added DIAD 0.805 mL 4.14 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 10 min. Then a solution of 1 4 hydroxy 3 nitrophenyl ethanone 500 mg 2.76 mmol and 1 phenylpropan 1 ol 376 mg 2.76 mmol in THF 10.00 mL was added dropwise. The reaction mixture was then stirred at RT for 3 h. It was then diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and water 10 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 2 20 mL and the combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave the 9A light yellow oil 600 mg 2.005 mmol 72.6 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO299.12 found mass of phenol 252.09 T 3.41 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 8.37 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 7.93 dd J 9.0 2.2 Hz 1H 7.40 7.34 m 4H 7.33 7.28 m 1H 6.94 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 5.28 dd J 7.0 5.5 Hz 1H 2.54 s 3H 2.18 2.04 m 1H 2.04 1.91 m 1H 1.03 t J 7.4 Hz 3H 

To a solution of NaH 176 mg 4.41 mmol in THF 8 mL at 0 C. was added ethyl 2 diethoxyphosphoryl acetate 0.802 mL 4.01 mmol . After 15 min it became a clear solution. Then 9A 600 mg 2.005 mmol in THF 4.00 mL was added. After stirring at RT for 4 h. LC MS indicated product formation it was quenched with 10 mL of saturated aqueous NHCl. The aqueous layer was further extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL and the combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave an inseparable mixture of E and Z ethyl 3 3 nitro 4 1 phenylpropoxy phenyl but 2 enoate yellow oil 580 mg 1.570 mmol 78 yield . To a stirred solution of the above obtained mixture 340 mg 0.920 mmol in ethyl acetate 12 mL was added palladium on carbon 98 mg 0.092 mmol and the suspension was hydrogenated 1 atm balloon for 1 h. The suspension was filtered through a pad of Celite and the filter cake was rinsed with EtOAc 3 20 mL . Combined filtrate and rinses were concentrated in vacuo. Purification via flash chromatography gave 9B yellow oil 120 mg 0.351 mmol 38.2 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO341.20 found M H 342.24. T 2.85 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 7.43 7.32 m 3H 7.32 7.23 m 1H 6.60 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 6.53 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.41 dd J 8.4 2.0 Hz 1H 5.02 dd J 7.0 5.7 Hz 1H 4.09 qd J 7.2 3.2 Hz 2H 3.88 br. s. 2H 3.18 3.05 m 1H 2.60 2.37 m 2H 2.13 1.85 m 2H 1.23 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 1.19 td J 7.2 4.0 Hz 3H 1.03 t J 7.5 Hz 3H 

To a solution of 9B 15 mg 0.044 mmol in THF 2 mL was added 1 fluoro 2 isocyanatobenzene 9.04 mg 0.066 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred at rt for 1 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the crude ester was dissolved in THF 2 mL and Water 1 mL then sodium hydroxide 0.132 mL 0.132 mmol was added. A precipitate formed then MeOH 1 mL was added. After 20 h most of the MeOH and THF was removed in vacuo and the crude was diluted with 5 mL of water. The pH was adjusted to 4 using 1N HCl. The aqueous phase was then extracted with EtOAc 3 and the combined organic phase was washed with brine dried with NaSOand concentrated. The crude material was purified via preparative HPLC with the following conditions Column Waters XBridge C18 19 150 mm 5 m particles Guard Column Waters XBridge C18 19 10 mm 5 m particles Mobile Phase A 5 95 acetonitrile water with 0.05 TFA Mobile Phase B 95 5 acetonitrile water with 0.05 TFA Gradient 25 100 B over 15 minutes then a 5 minute hold at 100 B Flow 20 mL min. Fractions containing the desired product were combined and dried via centrifugal evaporation to afford the title compound 15.2 mg 0.034 mmol 77 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHFNO450.20 found M H 451.07. T 3.63 min Method A . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 9.39 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 8.63 8.50 m 1H 8.24 8.10 m 1H 7.97 t J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.43 d J 6.9 Hz 2H 7.34 t J 7.7 Hz 2H 7.30 7.21 m 2H 7.18 7.11 m 1H 7.07 6.97 m 1H 6.74 dd J 8.4 3.0 Hz 1H 6.66 dt J 8.4 2.5 Hz 1H 5.26 dd J 7.4 5.9 Hz 1H 2.98 sxt J 7.1 Hz 1H 2.44 2.31 m 2H 2.06 dquin J 14.2 7.2 Hz 1H 1.92 1.80 m 1H 1.12 d J 6.4 Hz 3H 0.97 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

Example 10 was obtained following the same procedure in Example 9 utilizing para toluylisocyanante in the urea formation. LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO446.22 found M H 447.12. T 3.70 min Method A . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 9.42 s 1H 8.07 s 1H 8.00 t J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.41 dd J 16.6 7.7 Hz 4H 7.34 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 7.29 7.21 m 1H 7.11 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.73 dd J 8.4 3.0 Hz 1H 6.62 dt J 8.4 2.5 Hz 1H 5.26 dd J 7.2 5.7 Hz 1H 2.98 sxt J 7.1 Hz 1H 2.40 2.31 m 2H 2.26 s 3H 2.12 1.99 m 1H 1.92 1.78 m 1H 1.11 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.97 t J 7.4 Hz 3H 

Example 11 was obtained following the same procedure in Example 9 except that cyclopropyl phenyl methanol was used in the aryl ether formation. LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO458.22 found M H 459.16. T 3.67 min Method A . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 9.44 s 1H 8.12 s 1H 8.03 7.94 m 1H 7.48 d J 7.5 Hz 2H 7.39 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.33 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.27 7.20 m 1H 7.11 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 6.80 6.69 m 1H 6.61 dt J 8.3 2.6 Hz 1H 4.72 d J 8.6 Hz 1H 2.98 dq J 14.5 7.3 Hz 1H 2.41 2.28 m 2H 2.26 s 3H 1.47 1.36 m 1H 1.11 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.71 0.61 m 1H 0.57 0.41 m 3H 

To a solution of 1 4 hydroxy 3 nitrophenyl ethanone 2 g 11.04 mmol in acetone 50 mL was added potassium carbonate 3.05 g 22.08 mmol . Then E 3 bromoprop 1 en 1 yl benzene 3.59 mL 24.29 mmol was added slowly. The solution turned from clear to orange yellow suspension. After 16 h LC MS indicated small amount of product. Then it was heated at 60 C. for 1 h started to see more product. It was cooled to RT. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 20 mL . The aqueous layer was further extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL and the combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried over MgSO4 filtered and concentrated. Trituration with CHCl 10 mL and Hexanes 50 mL precipitated out a yellow solid. Filtration and drying under vacuum gave 12A yellow solid 2 g 6.73 mmol 60.9 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO297.10 did not show parent ion in MS T 3.33 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 8.45 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 8.16 dd J 8.8 2.2 Hz 1H 7.46 7.40 m 2H 7.38 7.32 m 2H 7.32 7.28 m 1H 7.22 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 6.82 d J 15.8 Hz 1H 6.39 dt J 15.9 5.7 Hz 1H 4.95 dd J 5.6 1.4 Hz 2H 2.61 s 3H 

To a solution of NaH 0.148 g 3.70 mmol in THF 10 mL at 0 C. was added ethyl 2 diethoxyphosphoryl acetate 0.673 mL 3.36 mmol . After stirring for 1 h a solution of 12A 0.5 g 1.68 mmol in THF was added. The resulting reaction mixture was then stirred at RT for 16 h. LC MS indicated completion. It was quenched with 10 mL saturated aqueous NHCl and diluted with 20 mL EtOAc. The aqueous layer was further extracted with EtOAc 2 20 mL and the combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave ethyl 3 4 cinnamyloxy 3 nitrophenyl but 2 enoate yellow oil 0.35 g 0.953 mmol 56.6 yield as a mixture of E and Z isomers. To a stirred solution of a E and Z mixture of ethyl 3 4 cinnamyloxy 3 nitrophenyl but 2 enoate obtained above 150 mg 0.408 mmol in ethyl acetate 10 mL was added palladium on carbon 43.4 mg 0.041 mmol and the suspension was hydrogenated 1 atm balloon for 1 h. LC MS indicated completion. The suspension was filtered through a pad of Celite and the filter cake was rinsed with EtOAc 3 10 mL . Combined filtrate and rinses were concentrated in vacuo. Crude was used without purification in the subsequent step. To a solution of crude ethyl 3 3 amino 4 3 phenylpropoxy phenyl butanoate 100 mg 0.293 mmol obtained above in THF 4 mL was added 1 isocyanato 4 methylbenzene 58.5 mg 0.439 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred at RT for 12 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the crude ester was dissolved in THF 4.00 mL and water 2.000 mL then 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide 0.879 mL 0.879 mmol was added. MeOH 1 mL was added to dissolve the precipitate and it turned into a clear yellow solution. After 3 days reaction was complete by LC MS. Most MeOH and THF was removed in vacuo and the crude was diluted with 2 mL of water the pH was adjusted to ca. 4 using 1N aqueous HCl. The aqueous phase was then extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL and the combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over NaSOand concentrated. Preparative HPLC gave 12B light yellow oil 9.1 mg 0.020 mmol 6.7 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO446.22 found M H 447.17. T 3.78 min Method A . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 9.29 s 1H 8.03 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.97 s 1H 7.35 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.32 7.21 m 2H 7.21 7.14 m 1H 7.08 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.86 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.77 dd J 8.2 2.2 Hz 1H 4.02 t J 6.4 Hz 2H 3.10 2.99 m 1H 2.83 2.75 m 2H 2.43 dd J 7.4 4.0 Hz 2H 2.23 s 3H 2.13 2.02 m 2H 1.17 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 

Example 13 was obtained following the procedure in Example 3 using 3C and 3 methylisoxazol 5 amine in the urea formation. LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO430.26 found M H 431.4. T 0.93 min Method B . H NMR 500 MHz METHANOL d 7.92 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.11 s 1H 7.00 6.87 m 1H 6.06 s 1H 3.30 3.13 m 1H 2.64 d J 7.4 Hz 5H 2.55 2.45 m 1H 2.25 s 3H 1.77 1.62 m 2H 1.31 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.88 d J 6.9 Hz 12H 

TBAF 21.56 mL 21.56 mmol was added to a solution of 4 diisobutylamino 3 nitrobenzaldehyde 1 g 3.59 mmol and trimethyl trifluoromethyl silane 0.766 g 5.39 mmol in THF 10 mL at 0 C. The resulting mixture was warmed up to RT and stirred for 12 h. LC MS indicated completion. The reaction mixture was then treated with 5 mL of 1 N aqueous HCl. After stirring for 15 min the product was extracted with EtOAc 2 30 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave 14A orange oil 1.2 g 3.44 mmol 96 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHFNO348.17 found M H 349.14. T 3.76 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 7.84 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 7.47 dd J 8.8 2.2 Hz 1H 7.13 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 4.97 q J 6.6 Hz 1H 2.96 d J 7.3 Hz 4H 1.93 dquin J 13.5 6.8 Hz 2H 0.84 d J 6.6 Hz 12H 

To a solution of 14A 1.3 g 3.73 mmol in CHCl 50 mL at 0 C. was added sodium bicarbonate 0.940 g 11.20 mmol followed by Dess Martin Periodinane 2.374 g 5.60 mmol . After stirring for 16 h LC MS indicated completion the reaction mixture was then diluted with 20 mL of saturated aqueous NaHCO. After stirring for 15 min the organic layer was separated and extracted with CHCl 2 20 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave 14B green oil 0.9 g 2.60 mmol 69.6 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHFNO346.15 did not show parent ion in MS T 3.88 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 8.50 8.42 m 1H 8.05 7.97 m 1H 7.14 d J 9.2 Hz 1H 3.09 d J 7.5 Hz 4H 2.01 dquin J 13.5 6.8 Hz 2H 0.88 d J 6.6 Hz 12H 

To a solution of NaH 0.254 g 6.35 mmol in THF 16 mL at 0 C. was added ethyl 2 diethoxyphosphoryl acetate 1.156 mL 5.77 mmol . After 30 min it became a clear solution. Then 14B 1 g 2.89 mmol in THF 8.00 mL was added. After stirring at RT for 1 h LC MS indicated completion. It was then quenched with 10 mL of saturated aqueous NHCl. The aqueous layer was further extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL and the combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave ethyl 3 4 diisobutylamino 3 nitrophenyl 4 4 4 trifluorobut 2 enoate E Z geometry not defined yellow oil 1 g 2.401 mmol 83 yield . To a stirred solution of above obtained ethyl 3 4 diisobutylamino 3 nitrophenyl 4 4 4 trifluorobut 2 enoate 550 mg 1.321 mmol in ethyl acetate 12 mL was added palladium on carbon 141 mg 0.132 mmol and the suspension was hydrogenated 1 atm balloon for 2 h. LC MS indicated completion. The suspension was filtered through a pad of Celite and the filter cake was rinsed with EtOAc 3 20 mL . Combined filtrate and rinses were concentrated in vacuo. Purification via flash chromatography gave 14C light yellow oil 200 mg 0.515 mmol 39.0 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHFNO388.23 found M H 389.22. T 3.52 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 7.01 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 6.73 6.54 m 2H 4.18 4.11 m 2H 4.08 qd J 7.1 3.3 Hz 2H 3.83 3.72 m 1H 2.99 2.91 m 1H 2.85 2.76 m 1H 2.59 d J 7.3 Hz 4H 1.74 dquin J 13.5 6.8 Hz 2H 1.14 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 0.90 d J 6.6 Hz 12H 

To a solution of 14C 25 mg 0.064 mmol in THF 2 mL was added 1 isocyanato 4 methylbenzene 12.85 mg 0.097 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred at RT for 6 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the crude ester was dissolved in THF 2.000 mL and water 1.000 mL then 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide 0.193 mL 0.193 mmol was added. MeOH 1 mL was added to dissolve the precipitate and it turned into a clear yellow solution. After 16 h reaction was complete by LC MS. Most MeOH and THF was removed in vacuo and the crude was diluted with 5 mL of water the pH was adjusted to ca. 4 using 1N aqueous HCl. The aqueous phase was then extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL and the combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over NaSOand concentrated. Preparative HPLC gave 14D light yellow oil 25.8 mg 0.052 mmol 81 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHFNO493.26 found M H 494.20. T 3.83 min Method A . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 9.39 s 1H 8.01 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 7.85 s 1H 7.36 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.20 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 7.09 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.97 dd J 8.2 1.7 Hz 1H 3.89 td J 9.0 5.7 Hz 1H 2.66 d J 6.9 Hz 4H 2.24 s 3H 1.64 dquin J 13.4 6.7 Hz 2H 0.84 d J 6.9 Hz 12H 

The individual enantiomers were obtained by chiral separation of 14D Method G Enantiomer 1 T 9.50 min and enantiomer 2 T 11.50 min Method H .

Enantiomer 1 faster eluting LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHFNO493.26 found M H 494.5. T 1.07 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 8.28 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 8.14 s 1H 7.71 br. s. 1H 7.19 7.06 m 5H 7.00 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 4.06 3.91 m 1H 3.07 dd J 16.6 3.6 Hz 1H 2.82 dd J 16.5 10.1 Hz 1H 2.55 2.38 m 4H 2.33 s 3H 1.56 dquin J 13.5 6.7 Hz 2H 0.69 dd J 15.4 6.6 Hz 12H Enantiomer 2 slower eluting LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHFNO493.26 found M H 494.5. T 1.07 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 8.26 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 8.12 s 1H 7.58 br. s. 1H 7.19 7.06 m 5H 7.03 6.96 m 1H 3.98 quind J 9.7 3.9 Hz 1H 3.05 dd J 16.5 3.7 Hz 1H 2.82 dd J 16.5 10.3 Hz 1H 2.56 2.38 m 4H 2.33 s 3H 1.56 dquin J 13.5 6.7 Hz 2H 0.70 dd J 14.7 6.6 Hz 12H 

Example 15 was obtained following the procedure of example 14 using the corresponding isocyanate. LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHFNO497.23 found M H 498.19. T 3.75 min Method A . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 9.37 s 1H 8.11 s 1H 8.00 td J 8.3 1.7 Hz 1H 7.91 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.31 7.10 m 3H 7.08 6.93 m 2H 3.93 3.85 m 1H 2.99 2.90 m 1H 2.80 dd J 16.3 8.9 Hz 1H 2.69 d J 6.9 Hz 4H 1.66 dquin J 13.2 6.6 Hz 2H 0.83 d J 6.4 Hz 12H 

These compounds were obtained following the procedures in Example 14 using the corresponding isocyanate.

An oven dried two necked round bottom flask containing a stirring bar was charged with 4 bromo N N diisobutyl 2 nitroaniline 1 g 3.04 mmol 5 vinyl 1H tetrazole 0.292 g 3.04 mmol palladium II acetate 6.82 mg 0.030 mmol and triethanolamine 7 mL . The mixture was heated and stirred at 100 C. for 10 h. LC MS indicated only small amount of desired product with lots of starting material remaining. Added another 0.01 eq of palladium II acetate. The mixture was heated and stirred at 100 C. for another 48 h. LC MS indicated completion. After cooling to RT it was diluted with DCM 20 ml passed through a plug of silica gel washed with 15 v v MeOH in DCM the organic rinses were concentrated and purification via flash chromatography gave 32A orange solid 0.699 g 2.030 mmol 66.8 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO344.20 found M H 345.3. T 1.08 min Method B .

To a solution of 32A 50 mg 0.145 mmol in MeOH 10 mL under a Natmosphere was added 10 Pd C 0.154 mg 1.452 mol . The mixture was degassed by house vacuum and then stirred under hydrogen atmosphere Hydrogen balloon for 14 h. The reaction mixture was filtered and concentrated to give 32B as light yellow oil which used in next step without purification. LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHN316.44 found M H 317.2. T 0.71 min Method A .

To a solution of 32C 30 mg 0.095 mmol in THF 1 mL was added 1 isocyanato 4 methylbenzene 0.024 mL 0.190 mmol . The reaction was stirred 2 h at RT then quenched with 0.03 mL of N N dimethylethylenediamine. The crude material was purified by preparative HPLC to afford the title compound 2.9 mg 6.45 mol 7 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO 449.29. found M H 450.3. T 3.44 min Method A . H NMR 500 MHz METHANOL d 7.84 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 7.37 7.22 m 3H 7.19 7.06 m 3H 3.25 s 2H 3.05 s 2H 2.60 d J 7.4 Hz 4H 2.31 2.22 m 3H 1.78 1.59 m 2H 0.84 d J 6.9 Hz 12H .

33 was obtained following the procedures in example 32 except that 4 fluoroaniline was used in the urea formation. LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHFNO 453.27. found M H 454.27. T 2.21 min Method A . H NMR 500 MHz METHANOL d 7.61 s 1H 7.48 7.33 m 3H 7.00 dt J 15.0 8.9 Hz 3H 3.33 3.20 m 2H 3.17 3.04 m 2H 2.78 2.47 m 4H 1.82 1.54 m 2H 0.88 br. s. 12H 

To a solution of 4 bromomethyl 1 fluoro 2 nitrobenzene 1 g 4.27 mmol in acetonitrile 5 mL was added tetraethylammonium cyanide 0.801 g 5.13 mmol . The resulting deep green solution was stirred at RT for 4 h. The solvent was then removed in vacuo purification via flash chromatography gave 34A light yellow oil 617 mg 3.43 mmol 80 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHFNO180.03 did not show paretn ion T 0.74 min Method B .

34A 600 mg 3.33 mmol and diisobutylamine 2152 mg 16.65 mmol were heated at 130 C. for 2 h. After cooling to RT purification via flash chromatography gave 34B orange oil 579 mg 2.001 mmol 60.1 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO289.18 found M H 290.9. T 1.12 min Method B .

To a solution of 34B 400 mg 1.382 mmol and 1 bromo 2 chloroethane 0.172 mL 2.073 mmol in DMF 10 mL at 0 C. under argon was added NaH 138 mg 3.46 mmol . The solution darkened. After 10 min ice bath was removed and the mixture was warmed up to RT. After 30 min at RT LC MS indicated complete conversion to the desired product. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride and then diluted with water and EtOAc. The layers were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 2 20 mL . The organic extracts were combined washed with water and brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave 34C orange oil 331 mg 1.049 mmol 76 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO315.19 found M H 316.4. T 1.18 min Method B .

To a solution of 34C 280 mg 0.888 mmol in EtOH 5 mL was added a solution of NaOH 533 mg 13.32 mmol in Water 5 mL and the mixture was heated to 100 C. for 16 h. LC MS indicated 60 desired acid and 40 primary amide. The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for another 8 h. LC MS indicated no improvement. It was then cooled to RT. concentrated in vacuo diluted with 5 ml of water acidified with 1N aqueous HCl to pH ca. 2. Then extracted with EtOAc 2 20 ml . The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via preparative HPLC gave 34D 123 mg 0.368 mmol 41.4 yield LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO334.19 found M H 334.8. T 1.09 min Method B . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 9.45 9.17 m 1H 7.72 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 7.41 dd J 8.7 2.3 Hz 1H 7.12 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 3.05 2.88 m 4H 1.93 dt J 13.5 6.8 Hz 2H 1.79 1.63 m 2H 1.36 1.23 m 2H 0.95 0.79 m 12H 

A solution of 34D 159 mg 0.475 mmol in DCM 5 mL was added oxalyl chloride 0.083 mL 0.951 mmol and DMF 0.368 l 4.75 mol the reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 2 h. It was then concentrated in vacuo dried under high vacuum for 1 h. The crude material was dissolved in THF 3 mL and acetonitrile 3 mL cooled to 0 C. and trimethylsilyldiazomethane 2.377 mL 4.75 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was gradually warm up to RT over 4.5 h. The it was diluted with EtOAc washed with water and brine the solvent was evaporated. To the residue was added silver oxide 551 mg 2.377 mmol DMF 4 mL and water 2 mL . It was stirred at 120 C. for 15 min then cooled to RT filtered through a pad of Celite rinsed with EtOAc. After concentration purification via preparative HPLC gave 34E yellow oil 29.7 mg 0.085 mmol 17.9 yield LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO348.20 found M H 349.3. T 1.12 min Method B .

A solution of 34E 29 mg 0.083 mmol in MeOH 5 mL under a Natmosphere was added 10 Pd C 8.86 mg 8.32 mol . The mixture was degassed by house vacuum and then stirred under a hydrogen atmosphere Hydrogen balloon for 2 h. The reaction mixture was filtered through a Celite pad and concentrated to obtain 34F 13.1 mg 0.041 mmol 49.4 yield as a light yellow oil. LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO318.23 found M H 319.3. T 0.79 min Method B .

To a solution of 34F 13 mg 0.041 mmol in THF 1 mL was added 1 isocyanato 4 methylbenzene 10.87 mg 0.082 mmol . The solution was stirred 3 h at RT then concentrated under vacuo and purified by HPLC to obtain the 34G 1.2 mg 2.66 mol 6.51 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO451.28 found M H 452.5. T 0.95 min Method B . H NMR 500 MHz METHANOL d 7.89 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.28 d J 7.9 Hz 2H 7.11 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.06 6.97 m 2H 2.60 2.52 m 4H 2.35 2.24 m 3H 1.97 s 2H 1.66 s 2H 1.00 0.91 m 4H 0.83 d J 6.4 Hz 12H .

4 bromo 1 fluoro 2 nitrobenzene 7 g 31.8 mmol and diisobutylamine 12.23 ml 70.0 mmol were heated at 130 C. for 3 h. It was then cooled to RT purification by flash chromatography gave 35A bright red solid 8.19 g 24.88 mmol 78 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHBrNO328.08 found M 3 331.03 T 2.63 min Method A .

To a solution of 35A 2 g 6.07 mmol in DMF 20 mL was added E methyl but 2 enoate 1.216 g 12.15 mmol tetrabutylammonium bromide 0.392 g 1.215 mmol triethylamine 1.693 mL 12.15 mmol and dichlorobis tri o tolylphosphine palladium II 0.239 g 0.304 mmol . The mixture was sparged with nitrogen for 10 min then it was sealed and heated at 110 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt and filtered through packed Celite and diluted with water and EtOAc. The organic phase was separated and washed with brine dried over anhydrous MgSO filtered and concentrated to give the crude product. Purification via flash chromatography gave 35B 1.5 g 4.31 mmol 71 yield .

To 35B 1.5 g 4.31 mmol in MeOH 50 mL at rt was added 10 Pd C 0.644 g 0.607 mmol . The mixture was evacuated and back filled with H 3 and the mixture was stirred under Hatmosphere overnight. The reaction mixture was evacuated with vacuum and back filled with nitrogen then it was filtered through packed Celite and the filtrate was concentrated. Purification via flash chromatography gave racemic 35C 0.85 g 2.60 mmol 42.8 yield as colorless liquid. Chiral separation of racemic 35C by Method G gave the faster eluting enantiomer 1 0.410 g 1.267 mmol 48 T 1.80 min Method I and the slower eluting enantiomer 2 0.40 g 1.24 mmol 46 T 2.19 min Method I both as light brown oils absolute stereochemistry unknown.

To a solution of 35C enantiomer 1 0.0251 g 0.078 mmol in THF 1.205 ml was added 4 nitrophenyl carbonochloridate 0.017 g 0.082 mmol . The reaction was stirred at rt for 30 min. To this reaction were added quinoxalin 6 amine 0.034 g 0.235 mmol and triethylamine 0.033 ml 0.235 mmol . The reaction was heated at 50 C. overnight then allowed to cool to RT. The reaction was diluted with HO and EtOAc. The layers were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 3 . The organic phases were combined dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give 35D as a brown residue. The crude material was used without further purification.

To a solution of 35D 0.039 g 0.079 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 0.088 ml and MeOH 0.044 ml was added a 1.5 M lithium hydroxide aqueous solution 0.529 ml 0.793 mmol . The mixture was heated at 70 C. for 5 h then allowed to stir at rt overnight. The reaction was neutralized with 1 N HCl 0.79 mL and diluted with EtOAc. The layers were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 3 . The organic phases were combined and the solvent was evaporated to give the crude product as a red residue. The crude material was purified via preparative LC MS with the following conditions Column Waters XBridge C18 19 250 mm 5 m particles Guard Column Waters XBridge C18 19 10 mm 5 m particles Mobile Phase A 5 95 acetonitrile water with 10 mM ammonium acetate Mobile Phase B 95 5 acetonitrile water with 10 mM ammonium acetate Gradient 15 100 B over 25 minutes then a 5 minute hold at 100 B Flow 20 mL min. Fractions containing the desired product were combined and dried via centrifugal evaporation to afford the title compound 16.0 mg 0.033 mmol 41 yield . Anal. Calc d for CHNO477.27 found M H 478.4 T 1.43 min Method C . H NMR 500 MHz METHANOL d 8.79 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 8.72 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 8.26 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 8.11 8.06 m 1H 8.05 7.99 m 1H 7.94 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.14 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 6.93 dd J 7.9 2.0 Hz 1H 3.30 3.22 m 1H 3.02 s 1H 2.89 s 1H 2.68 d J 6.9 Hz 4H 2.59 2.48 m 1H 1.75 dt J 13.4 6.7 Hz 2H 1.35 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.92 d J 6.9 Hz 12H .

Example 36 was prepared following the procedure for Example 35 using 35C enantiomer 2 and quinoxalin 6 amine in the urea formation. Anal. Calc d for CHNO477.27 found M H 478.4 T 1.39 min Method C H NMR 500 MHz METHANOL d 8.79 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 8.72 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 8.26 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 8.11 8.06 m 1H 8.05 8.00 m 1H 7.98 br s 1H 7.94 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.14 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 6.93 dd J 7.9 2.0 Hz 1H 3.31 3.22 m 1H 3.02 s 1H 2.90 s 1H 2.68 d J 7.4 Hz 4H 2.65 m 1H 2.54 dd J 15.1 8.7 Hz 1H 1.75 dquin J 13.4 6.7 Hz 2H 1.35 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.92 d J 6.4 Hz 12H .

Example 37 was prepared following the procedure for Example 35 utilizing 35C enantiomer 1 and pyrimidin 5 amine Anal. Calc d for CHNO427.26 found M H 428.3 T 1.96 min Method D H NMR 500 MHz METHANOL d 9.00 s 2H 8.80 s 1H 7.93 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.14 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.93 dd J 8.4 2.0 Hz 1H 3.31 3.20 m 1H 3.02 s 1H 2.90 s 1H 2.66 d J 6.9 Hz 4H 2.64 d J 6.4 Hz 1H 2.53 dd J 15.1 8.7 Hz 1H 1.73 dquin J 13.5 6.7 Hz 2H 1.33 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.92 d J 6.9 Hz 12H .

Example 38 was prepared following the procedure for Example 35 using the 35C enantiomer 2 and pyrimidin 5 amine in the urea formation. Anal. Calc d for CHNO427.26 found M H 428.3 T 1.93 min Method D H NMR 500 MHz METHANOL d 9.00 s 2H 8.79 s 1H 7.93 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.14 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 6.94 dd J 8.2 2.2 Hz 1H 3.30 3.19 m 1H 3.02 s 1H 2.90 s 1H 2.67 d J 6.9 Hz 4H 2.63 d J 5.9 Hz 1H 2.53 dd J 15.1 8.7 Hz 1H 1.73 dquin J 13.4 6.7 Hz 2H 1.33 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.92 d J 6.9 Hz 12H .

Example 39 was prepared following the procedure for Example 35 using 35C enantiomer 2 and 2 methylpyrimidin 5 amine Anal. Calc d for CHNO441.27 found M H 442.3 T 1.22 min Method C .

Example 40 was prepared following the procedure for Example 35 with 35C enantiomer 1 and 2 methyl pyrimidin 5 amine Anal. Calc d for CHNO441.27 found M H 442.2 T 1.27 min Method C .

Example 41 was prepared following the procedure for Example 35 utilizing 35C enantiomer 1 and paratoluylisocyanate. Anal. Calc d for CHNO439.2 found M H 440.2 T 1.02 min Method B . H NMR 500 MHz METHANOL d 7.85 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.26 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.11 7.00 m 3H 6.84 dd J 8.4 2.0 Hz 1H 4.29 br. s. 3H 2.63 2.54 m 5H 2.51 2.40 m 1H 2.28 s 3H 1.70 1.53 m 2H 1.28 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.82 d J 6.4 Hz 12H 

Example 42 was prepared following the procedure for Example 35 utilizing 35C enantiomer 1 and 5 methylisoxazol 3 amine Anal. Calc d for CHNO430.26 found M H 431.4 T 1.02 min Method B . H NMR 500 MHz METHANOL d 7.88 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.09 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.89 dd J 7.9 2.0 Hz 1H 6.30 s 1H 3.25 3.13 m 1H 2.65 d J 6.9 Hz 4H 2.60 dd J 15.1 6.2 Hz 1H 2.47 dd J 15.1 8.7 Hz 1H 2.37 s 3H 1.68 dt J 13.4 6.7 Hz 2H 1.29 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.85 d J 6.4 Hz 12H .

Example 43 was prepared following the procedure for Example 35 using the 35C enantiomer 2 and paratoluylisocyanate. Anal. Calc d for CHNO439.2 found M H 440.2 T 1.02 min Method B . H NMR 500 MHz METHANOL d 7.85 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.26 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.11 7.00 m 3H 6.84 dd J 8.4 2.0 Hz 1H 4.29 br. s. 3H 2.63 2.54 m 5H 2.51 2.40 m 1H 2.28 s 3H 1.70 1.53 m 2H 1.28 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.82 d J 6.4 Hz 12H .

To a solution of 35C enantiomer 1 0.030 g 0.094 mmol in DMF 0.936 ml was added 2 4 cyanophenyl acetic acid 0.030 g 0.187 mmol 1H benzo d 1 2 3 triazol 1 ol 0.025 g 0.187 mmol HOBT 0.029 g 0.187 mmol and EDC 0.036 g 0.187 mmol . This mixture was stirred at RT for 10 minutes and then DIEA 0.049 ml 0.281 mmol was added. The reaction was stirred at RT for 3 h and then diluted with EtOAc. This was then washed once with 1 N HCl twice with water and once with brine. The organics were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to give the crude product as a yellow solid. To this material was added 2.0 mL THF 0.4 mL MeOH and 0.4 mL 1 N NaOH. This mixture was heated at 55 C. for 72 hours and then cooled to RT and 0.5 mL of 1N HCl was added to neutralize the solution and this was extracted thrice with EtOAc. The organics were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to give the crude acid. The crude material was purified via preparative LC MS with the following conditions Column Waters XBridge C18 19 150 mm 5 m particles Guard Column Waters XBridge C18 19 10 mm 5 m particles Mobile Phase A 5 95 acetonitrile water with 10 mM ammonium acetate Mobile Phase B 95 5 acetonitrile water with 10 mM ammonium acetate Gradient 15 100 B over 15 minutes then a 5 minute hold at 100 B Flow 20 mL min. Fractions containing the desired product were combined and dried via centrifugal evaporation to yield Example 45 21.9 mg 0.048 mmol 51 . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO449.6 found M H 450.3 T 1.957 min Method E .

Example 46 was prepared following the procedure for Example 3. Anal. Calc d for CHFNO484.23 found M H 485.5 T 1.02 min Method B H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 8.34 8.23 m 1H 7.94 7.84 m 1H 7.25 7.15 m 1H 6.99 6.87 m 1H 3.16 3.02 m 1H 2.64 d J 6.9 Hz 4H 2.48 2.39 m 2H 1.70 1.52 m 2H 1.28 1.11 m 3H 0.86 d J 6.4 Hz 12H .

Example 47 was prepared following the procedure for Example 3. LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO456.27 found M H 457.20 T 3.61 min Method A H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 8.16 s 1H 7.86 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.15 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 6.89 dd J 8.2 1.7 Hz 1H 5.81 s 1H 3.12 3.01 m 1H 2.61 d J 6.9 Hz 4H 2.47 2.28 m 2H 1.95 1.85 m 1H 1.60 tq J 13.2 6.6 Hz 2H 1.17 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 1.02 0.91 m 2H 0.87 0.80 m 12H 0.77 0.71 m 2H .

Example 48 was prepared following the procedure for Example 3. LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO430.26 found M H 431.20 T 3.53 min Method A H NMR 500 MHz METHANOL d 7.89 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.09 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.89 dd J 7.9 2.0 Hz 1H 6.29 s 1H 3.25 3.15 m 1H 2.65 d J 6.9 Hz 4H 2.60 dd J 14.9 6.4 Hz 1H 2.51 2.43 m 1H 2.37 s 3H 1.75 1.64 m 2H 1.29 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.85 d J 6.9 Hz 12H .

To a solution of cyclohexanamine 2.309 mL 20.17 mmol in DCM 100 mL cooled to 0 C. was added TEA 4.22 mL 30.2 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 5 min before isobutyryl chloride 2.54 mL 24.20 mmol was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred and allowed to warm to room temperature slowly. After 2 h LC MS indicated completion. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate then extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic extracts were washed with 1N aqueous HCl brine then dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford 3.5 g of N cyclohexylisobutyramide as a white solid. This was used without purification. To a solution of above obtained N cyclohexylisobutyramide 2.3 g 13.59 mmol in THF 50 mL was slowly added LAH 27.2 mL 27.2 mmol . The resulting solution was refluxed at 70 C. for 16 h. LC MS indicated depletion of SM. After Fieser quench the solid was filtered out. After separating two layers the aqueous layer was further extracted with EtOAc and the combined organic layer was washed with water brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to give 2 g of N isobutylcyclohexanamine. This was used without purification. To a solution of above obtained N isobutylcyclohexanamine 1.412 g 9.09 mmol in NMP 2 mL was added 4 bromo 1 fluoro 2 nitrobenzene 1 g 4.55 mmol and Hunig s base 2.382 mL 13.64 mmol . The resulting solution was heated at 120 C. for 6 h. LC MS indicated desired product. After cooling to room temperature it was filtered through a pad of Celite rinsed with EtOAc. After concentration purification via silica gel chromatography gave 4 bromo N cyclohexyl N isobutyl 2 nitroaniline orange solid 0.85 g 2.60 mmol 42.8 yield . To a stirred solution of above obtained 4 bromo N cyclohexyl N isobutyl 2 nitroaniline 570 mg 1.444 mmol in MeOH 10.00 mL cooled in an ice water bath was added ammonium chloride 1545 mg 28.9 mmol and zinc 944 mg 14.44 mmol . After stirring for 5 min water 1.0 mL was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 2 h. LC MS indicated desired product. Saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate was added and the suspension was then filtered through a pad of celite. The filter cake was rinsed with EtOAc. The aqueous layer was further extracted with EtOAc and the combined organic layer was washed with water brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography gave 4 bromo N1 cyclohexyl N1 isobutylbenzene 1 2 diamine yellow oil 400 mg 1.230 mmol 85 yield . To a solution of above obtained 4 bromo N1 cyclohexyl N1 isobutylbenzene 1 2 diamine 200 mg 0.615 mmol in THF 16 mL was added 1 isocyanato 4 methylbenzene 123 mg 0.922 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. LC MS indicated desired peak and completion. The reaction mixture was concentrated and purification via silica gel chromatography gave 49A white solid 130 mg 0.284 mmol 46.1 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHBrNO 457.17. found M 3H 459.91. T 4.32 min Method A . H NMR 400 MHz CHLOROFORM d 8.52 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 7.25 7.15 m 4H 7.06 dd J 8.5 2.3 Hz 1H 6.93 d J 8.6 Hz 1H 2.61 br. s. 2H 2.37 s 3H 2.33 2.23 m 1H 1.63 br. s. 2H 1.59 1.51 m 1H 1.38 1.22 m 3H 1.12 0.93 m 5H 0.71 d J 6.6 Hz 6H 

To a solution of 49A 70 mg 0.153 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL at room temperature was added E methyl but 2 enoate 0.049 mL 0.458 mmol Tetrabutylammonium bromide 9.84 mg 0.031 mmol triethylamine 0.043 mL 0.305 mmol and dichlorobis tri o tolylphosphine palladium II 6.00 mg 7.63 mol . The mixture was purged with nitrogen for 5 min. Then it was sealed and stirred at 110 C. for 6 h. LC MS indicated desired product. It was then cooled to room temperature purification of the crude material via silica gel chromatography gave 50 mg unsaturated ester. This was dissolved in MeOH 5 mL then Pd on carbon 32.5 mg 0.031 mmol was added. The suspension was hydrogenated 1 atm balloon for 1 h. LC MS indicated product. The suspension was filtered through a pad of celite and the filter cake was rinsed with EtOAc 2 20 mL . Combined filtrate and rinses were concentrated in vacuo. This was then dissolved in THF 1.5 mL then NaOH 0.458 mL 0.458 mmol was added. MeOH was added and it turned into a clear yellow orange solution. The reaction was monitored by LC MS. After 16 h reaction was complete by LC MS. Then most MeOH and THF was removed in vacuo and the crude was diluted with 5 mL of water. The pH of the aqueous layer was adjusted to 4 using 1N aqueous HCl. The aqueous phase was then extracted with EtOAc 2 10 mL and the combined organic phase was washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Preparative HPLC purification gave 49B yellow oil 18.8 mg 0.038 mmol 25 yield . LC MS Anal. Calc d for CHNO465.30 found M H 466.22 T 3.41 min Method A H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 9.40 s 1H 8.01 7.93 m 2H 7.36 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.12 7.05 m 3H 6.81 dd J 8.2 1.7 Hz 1H 3.12 3.01 m 1H 2.85 2.66 m 2H 2.47 2.36 m 1H 2.24 s 3H 1.87 d J 10.9 Hz 2H 1.68 d J 11.9 Hz 2H 1.51 d J 12.4 Hz 1H 1.29 dt J 13.0 6.6 Hz 1H 1.20 d J 6.9 Hz 4H 1.14 0.94 m 3H 0.81 d J 6.4 Hz 6H one proton buried under DMSO solvent peak .

Exemplary compounds were tested for inhibition of IDO activity. Experimental procedures and results are provided below.

Human IDO1 HEK293 cells were seeded at 10 000 cells per 50 uL per well with RPMI phenol red free media contains 10 FBS in a 384 well black wall clear bottom tissue culture plate Matrix Technologies LLC 125 nL of certain concentration of compound was then added to each well using ECHO liquid handling systems. The cells were incubated for 20 hours in 37 C. incubator with 5 CO.

The compound treatments were stopped by adding Trichloroacetic Acid Sigma Aldrich to a final concentration at 0.2 . The cell plate was further incubated at 50 C. for 30 minute. The equal volume supernatant 20 uL and 0.2 w v Ehrlich reagent 4 dimethylaminobenzaldehyde Sigma Aldrich in glacial acetic acid were mixed in a new clear bottom 384 well plate. This plate was then incubated at room temperature for 30 minute. The absorbance at 490 nm was measured on Envision plate reader.

Compound ICvalues were calculated using the counts of 500 nM of a reference standard treatment as one hundred percent inhibition and counts of no compound but DMSO treatment as zero percent inhibition.

