---

title: Monitoring and visualizing traffic surprises
abstract: Systems, methods, and apparatuses are described for monitoring and visualizing traffic surprises. Traffic data is received for a region of interest comprising one or more routes. A surprise factor may be calculated for one or more routes in the region of interest based on a ratio of historical traffic data and real-time traffic data. A comparison may be performed of the surprise factor to at least one threshold. A surprise traffic message may be generated based on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09518837&OS=09518837&RS=09518837
owner: HERE Global B.V.
number: 09518837
owner_city: Eindhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20141202
---
The following disclosure relates to applications for monitoring and visualizing traffic surprises or more particularly systems and algorithms for calculating and reporting traffic surprises from real time traffic data and historical traffic data.

Navigation systems and devices provide traffic data such as indicators of congestion and its impact on routes that a user may be travelling. In order to provide these features navigation systems use geographic data that may include information about the traffic speed and traffic volume as well as detailed information regarding the network of roads and intersections estimated travel times along road segments the speed limits along roads and other information useful for selecting one route over another.

The collection of geographic data for use in navigation systems may be a significant undertaking. Additionally present collection systems typically model the existence of congestion and average speed on a large scale with minimal context. For example the majority of congestion reported may be known to drivers and others who use the traffic information such as transportation planners. Traffic delays are also often reported. Traffic delays may be caused by one or more of congestion construction accidents special events e.g. concerts sporting events festivals weather conditions e.g. rain snow tornado and so on.

Accordingly end users who have navigation systems may discover that certain traffic data used in their navigation systems does not provide sufficient context. Therefore providing up to date and accurate traffic data such as for use in navigation systems is a continuing effort.

Systems methods and apparatuses are described for monitoring and visualizing traffic surprises. Traffic data is received for a region of interest comprising one or more routes. A surprise factor may be calculated for one or more routes in the region of interest based on a ratio of historical traffic data and real time traffic data. A comparison may be performed of the surprise factor to at least one threshold. A surprise traffic message may be generated based on the comparison.

Traffic data may be provided to users from a traffic service provider TSP . Traffic data may originate with probes. A probe may be a mobile device or tracking device that provides samples of data for the location of a vehicle. The probes may be mobile phones running specialized applications that collect location data as people drive along roads as part of their daily lives. A probe may be stationary sensor such as an inductance loop or optical detector e.g. camera light detection and ranging LiDAR or radar device . The probes may report the quantity frequency or speed of vehicles as they travel road segments. The road segment may be determined based on the geographical coordinates of the probe e.g. global positioning system GPS .

The traffic data from probes may be presented on a map. A color coding technique may graphically represent the traffic levels on various road segments. For example green may represent no congestion yellow may represent slowed but flowing traffic red may represent significantly slowed traffic and black may represent substantially stopped traffic.

The following embodiments provide systems and methods for monitoring and visualizing traffic surprise data. A method apparatus and system are provided which provide traffic data to users which is anomalous or a deviation from expected traffic patterns. Users are familiar with most congestion in areas they are concerned with but what is more valuable to users is the existence of unexpected traffic events so called traffic surprises. This traffic surprise data may be processed and published to end users such that real time traffic surprises may be viewed by the end users in a contextual rich manner. The traffic surprises may be viewed alone on a map or in an origin destination matrix or in combination with the presentation of existing traffic conditions such as congestion.

In one embodiment an end user wishes to view traffic data and uses a mobile application to open a mapping or navigation application. The mobile mapping or navigation application traffic data for a region of interest comprising one or more routes. The mapping or navigation application calculates a surprise factor for one or more routes in the region of interest based on a ratio of historical traffic data and real time traffic data. The calculated surprise factor may be compared to at least one threshold. The mapping or navigation application may generate a surprise traffic message based on the comparison. The surprise traffic message may be an indication of traffic congestion such as reduced average traffic speed increased average traffic volume or some combination thereof for the one or more routes in the region of interest. The surprise traffic message may be displayed to the end user on a mobile application or in an origin destination matrix.

In another embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium is operable to execute instructions for monitoring and visualizing traffic data. The instructions when executed receive traffic data for route segments in a designated region calculate a surprise factor for the route segments in the designated region compare the surprise factor to at least one threshold and generate a surprise traffic message based on the comparison.

Database may be a geographic database that stores traffic data collected from one or more mobile devices or traffic data stored in the database as part of the map developer system . The traffic data may include historical traffic data that are stored in a table in the database . Similarly the traffic data may include real time traffic data that are stored in a table in the database . The traffic data stored in the database may be data related to one or more vehicles traveling along a route or routes. The traffic data may include measurements of one or more vehicles speed may include measurements of vehicle volume on one or more routes or other combinations thereof.

Data collected from the mobile device may be sent to the server through the network by the mobile device . The server receives traffic data for a region of interest comprising one or more routes. The received traffic data may be a user query for the conditions of a map that may be stored in the database . The conditions of the map may represent a filter which may be applied to the map and changes the presentation of the map. The conditions of the map may include average traffic speed on the one or more routes. Additionally the conditions of the map may include average traffic volume on the one or more routes.

The server may send the traffic data to the mobile device or the mobile device may collect the traffic data directly. In some embodiments the server calculates the surprise factor for the one or more routes from the historical traffic data and the real time traffic data. The database or local memory is accessed for data that represent average traffic speed average traffic volume or some combination thereof for the one or more routes. The server or in some embodiments the mobile device is configured to send a surprise traffic message to the mobile device . The message may display an indicator of congestion on the one or more routes. In some embodiments the server calculates a traffic level surprise TLS on route I to j at time t according to Equation 1. TLS 1 SF Eq. 1 The term

In an embodiment the traffic level surprise may be compared against a threshold value. The threshold value may correspond to a historical traffic level for the one or more routes. The threshold value may represent the speed at which vehicles travel along the one or more routes. The threshold value may also represent the volume of vehicles traveling along the one or more routes. The traffic level surprise may be higher or lower than the historical level for the one or more routes. In the event the traffic level surprise is higher than the historic level it may represent a positive traffic level surprise. For example if the average speed at which vehicles are traveling at on the one or more routes is faster than the historical average speed at which vehicles are traveling on the one or more routes this would be a positive outcome. This may indicate a low level of congestion on the one or more routes. Conversely for example if the traffic level surprise represents the volume of vehicles traveling along the one or more routes and it is higher than the historical volume of vehicles that travel along the one or more routes this may indicate a high level of congestion. In other embodiments the traffic level surprise measures a combination of speed and volume. In some embodiments the comparison is performed by the server . In other embodiments the comparison is performed by the mobile device .

The threshold value may be based on the average speed on a particular route. For example the historical average speed on the particular route may be 42 miles per hour. In that case if the real time average speed on the particular route is actually 56 miles per hour this would correspond to a positive surprise factor. Alternatively the threshold value may be different depending on the type of route that is being traveled. For example if a user is driving along a city street and the real time average speed of the street is 5 miles per hour faster than the historical average speed along that street this may be a positive surprise factor. However if the user is driving along an interstate highway 5 miles per hour faster than the historical average along that interstate highway this may not correspond to a positive surprise factor because the threshold for interstate highways may be set for a positive surprise factor to require at least 10 miles per hour faster than the historical average speed.

The server or in some embodiments the mobile device is configured to generate a surprise traffic message based on the comparison. The surprise traffic message may be an indication of congestion or lack thereof on the one or more routes. This congestion or lack thereof may be an indicating of a faster or slower average vehicle speed on the one or more routes or a higher or lower volume of vehicles on the one or more routes.

The surprise traffic message may be sent by the server to the mobile device . In other embodiments the mobile device sends the surprise traffic message to the server. The surprise traffic message may be presented to a user of the mobile device as a filter on a map viewed on their mobile device. The filter may operate to only display information that is a part of the filter on the map. In one embodiment the surprise traffic message would display on the map. For example the user may turn on the surprise factor filter when looking at the map on the mobile device and the mobile device may only display the one or more routes that are presently undergoing surprise congestion as indicated by the existence of a surprise factor above or below a threshold.

In another embodiment the surprise traffic message may be displayed for the one or more routes in an origin destination matrix. An origin destination matrix is used by traffic planners and other traffic professionals for observing monitoring and modeling traffic flows in a region. The origin destination matrix may include a grid where each cell in the grid corresponds to a particular origin destination pair. The surprise traffic message may indicate that there is a traffic surprise in a cell in the origin destination matrix. One such example origin destination matrix with traffic surprises displayed is shown in .

Another use for traffic surprise may be a combination of traffic surprise speed and traffic surprise volume for master traffic flow surprise. This may be proportional to a measurement of flow surprise. One way of representing traffic flow may be where traffic flow is equal to speed times volume on a route or section. Therefore flow surprise may be calculated according to Equation 3. TFS TSS TVS Eq. 3 TSS t is the traffic surprise speed at time t and TVS t is the traffic volume surprise at time t.

The data collected and calculated by the system may be published to the public as part of an application programming interface or API where users of the API may build their own applications using the data published. In one embodiment the data may be published according to the following formulas 

The mobile device may be a personal navigation device PND a portable navigation device smart phone a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet computer a notebook computer and or any other known or later developed mobile device or personal computer. Non limiting embodiments of navigation devices may also include relational database service devices mobile phone devices or car navigation devices.

The developer system and the mobile device are coupled with the network . The phrase coupled with is defined to mean directly connected to or indirectly connected through one or more intermediate components. Such intermediate components may include hardware and or software based components.

Computing resources for monitoring and visualizing traffic surprises may be divided between the server and the mobile device . In some embodiments the server performs a majority of the processing for calculating image based routing and confirmation. In other embodiments the mobile device performs a majority of the processing. In addition the processing is divided substantially evenly between the server and the mobile device .

The map views may consist of road maps street maps topographical maps graphical maps geographic information system maps maps of the built environment e.g. maps showing buildings in terms of elevation or some combination thereof. The map views may be presented automatically by the server or in some embodiments the mobile device . Alternatively the map views may be selected by a user of the system .

The varying levels of traffic surprises displayed on the origin destination matrix may correspond to varying levels of congestion from low levels of congestion to high levels of congestion. A user may use the traffic surprise data and traffic surprise messages in the following manner. In the origin destination matrix shown the X s correspond to the lack of an origin destination pair. This is because in the origin destination matrix shown an X corresponds to the same origin and destination. For example row column of the origin destination matrix shows aje st as the origin and destination and accordingly an X is placed to indicate this is not a valid origin destination pair. Similarly a G as shown at traffic surprise in column row may correspond to a very positive traffic surprise i.e. traffic is moving much faster than should be expected for that particular origin destination pair. A Y as shown at traffic surprise in column row may correspond to a slightly negative traffic surprise i.e. traffic is moving somewhat slower than should be expected for that particular origin destination pair. Similarly an R as shown at traffic surprise in column row may correspond to a fairly negative traffic surprise e.g. traffic is moving slower than should be expected for that particular origin destination pair. A B as shown at traffic surprise in column row may indicate a very negative traffic surprise e.g. traffic is moving much slower than should be expected for that particular origin destination pair. Alternatively the traffic surprises may be displayed on the origin destination matrix using a series of colors such as green yellow red black white or other colors to indicate the different levels of traffic surprise. For example the traffic surprises in the origin destination matrix may correspond to varying speed levels on the origin destination pairs such as the table below 

The traffic surprises presented in the origin destination matrix may be generated according to Equation 4. OD TTS Eq. 4 OD t is the origin destination from location i to location j at time t Mis the matrix from location i to location j and TTS t is Travel Time Surprise at time t. The Travel Time Surprise may be the historical average travel time divided by the current travel time from location i to j. In another embodiment the origin destination matrix may be generated according to Equation 5. OD TSQ Eq. 5 TSQ t is the Travel Speed Quotient at time t. The Travel Speed Quotient may be the free flow travel time divided by the travel time at time t. This may be useful for transportation planners to compare the travel time during the day versus the travel time at night where the travel time during the day is expected to be higher. In another embodiment the traffic surprises presented in the origin destination matrix may be generated according to Equation 6. OD VS Eq. 6 VS t is the Volume Surprise at time t. The Volume Surprise may be the current volume from location i to location j divided by the historical average volume from location i to location j. The origin destination matrix may be a time of week dependent origin destination matrix for every epoch of the week e.g. weekoch . Assuming the size of an epoch is 30 mins then a day has 48 epochs and a week has 7 times 48 epochs. This would allow for unique and accurate origin destination matrix representation of transportation network for different time of the week. In other embodiments the traffic surprises generated for the origin destination matrix may be calculated according to a combination of the formulas presented above.

The position circuitry generates data indicative of the location of the mobile device position data . In addition or in the alternative to GPS the position circuitry may include a dead reckoning type system cellular location or combinations of these or other systems. The positioning circuitry may include suitable sensing devices that measure the traveling distance speed direction and so on of the mobile device . The positioning system may also include a receiver and correlation chip to obtain a GPS signal.

At act the processor or the communication interface may be configured to receive traffic data for a region of interest comprising one or more routes. The data may be collected by the position circuitry the input device a GPS or other collection device integrated with the mobile device . The subsequent traffic data may be any one or combination of a destination vehicle speed volume of vehicles on a route GPS coordinates previously stored location user supplied location or other type of traffic data. At act the processor calculates a surprise factor for one or more routes in the region of interest based on a ratio of historical traffic data and real time traffic data. The surprise factor may be calculated according to any of the formulas listed above.

At act the processor performs a comparison of the traffic surprise to a threshold. The processor may perform this step in conjunction with the memory . The threshold may be predetermined by the system the user or a third party or some combination thereof. The threshold may be entered into the system by the user through the use of the input device .

At act the processor generates a surprise traffic message based on the comparison. The surprise traffic message may be indicative of a traffic surprise on one or more routes based on travel time vehicle volume or some combination thereof. In some embodiments the surprise traffic message may be presented to a user of a mobile device on the display .

In one embodiment the traffic surprise information may be used by an assisted driving protocol program or vehicle. The program may take into account the surprise factor information by receiving from the communication interface surprise factor information along a route that the vehicle is traveling. Additionally the program may then communicate this information to the rider in the vehicle by use of the display .

Assisted driving vehicles include autonomous vehicles highly assisted driving HAD and advanced driving assistance systems ADAS . Any of these assisted driving systems may be incorporated into mobile device . Alternatively an assisted driving device may be included in the vehicle. The assisted driving device may include memory a processor and systems to communicate with the mobile device .

The term autonomous vehicle may refer to a self driving or driverless mode in which no passengers are required to be on board to operate the vehicle. An autonomous vehicle may be referred to as a robot vehicle or an automated vehicle. The autonomous vehicle may include passengers but no driver is necessary. These autonomous vehicles may park themselves or move cargo between locations without a human operator. Autonomous vehicles may include multiple modes and transition between the modes. The autonomous vehicle may steer brake or accelerate the vehicle based on the traffic surprise level or surprise factor.

A highly assisted driving HAD vehicle may refer to a vehicle that does not completely replace the human operator. Instead in a highly assisted driving mode the vehicle may perform some driving functions and the human operator may perform some driving functions. Vehicles may also be driven in a manual mode in which the human operator exercises a degree of control over the movement of the vehicle. The vehicles may also include a completely driverless mode. Other levels of automation are possible. The HAD vehicle may control the vehicle through steering or braking in response to the traffic surprise level or surprise factor for a current or upcoming road link.

Similarly ADAS vehicles include one or more partially automated systems in which the vehicle alerts the driver. The features are designed to avoid collisions automatically. Features may include adaptive cruise control automate braking or steering adjustments to keep the driver in the correct lane. ADAS vehicles may issue warnings for the driver based on the traffic surprise level or surprise factor of a current or upcoming road link.

In another embodiment the traffic surprise information may be used by a routing program as it calculates the route to travel from a start and end point. The routing program may compare possible routes using the surprise factor. The traffic surprise information calculated for segments the route during the routing process may then be reported to the user via a surprise traffic message displayed via the display .

At act the processor or communication interface receives traffic information for one or more route segments through a network . At act the processor calculates a surprise factor for one or more route segments based on historical traffic information and real time traffic information. The one or more route segments may be determined by the processor determined by a route preference stored in the memory corresponding to the particular user device or may be a route selected by a user.

At act the processor compares the surprise factor to one or more metrics. The metrics may be predetermined user determined or some combination thereof. The metrics may correspond to traffic volume traffic speed travel time or some combination thereof.

At act the processor generates a surprise traffic message based on the comparison. The surprise traffic message may be indicative of a traffic surprise on one or more route segments based on travel time vehicle volume or some combination thereof. In some embodiments the processor or communication interface sends to the user device the surprise traffic message. The system may update the database with the surprise traffic database making necessary changes to entries in a table in a database.

In addition to the data describe above the database may include node data records road segment or link data records POI data records and other data records. More fewer or different data records can be provided. In one embodiment the other data records include cartographic data records routing data and maneuver data. One or more portions components areas layers features text and or symbols of the POI or event data can be stored in linked to and or associated with one or more of these data records. For example one or more portions of the POI event data or recorded route information can be matched with respective map or geographic records via position or GPS data associations such as using known or future map matching or geo coding techniques .

The road segment data records are links or segments representing roads streets or paths as can be used in the calculated route or recorded route information for determination of one or more personalized routes according to exemplary embodiments. The node data records are end points corresponding to the respective links or segments of the road segment data records. The road link data records and the node data records represent a road network such as used by vehicles cars and or other entities. Alternatively for example the database may contain path segment and node data records or other data that represent pedestrian paths or areas in addition to or instead of the vehicle road record data.

The road link segments and nodes can be associated with attributes such as geographic coordinates street names address ranges speed limits turn restrictions at intersections and other navigation related attributes as well as POIs such as gasoline stations hotels restaurants museums stadiums offices automobile dealerships auto repair shops buildings stores parks etc. The database may include data about the POIs and their respective locations in the POI data records. The database can also include data about places such as cities towns or other communities and other geographic features such as bodies of water mountain ranges etc. Such place or feature data can be part of the POI data or can be associated with POIs or POI data records such as a data point used for displaying or representing a position of a city . In addition the database can include event data e.g. traffic incidents constructions scheduled events unscheduled events etc. associated with the POI data records or other records of the database .

Each road segment is associated with two nodes e.g. one node represents the point at one end of the road segment and the other node represents the point at the other end of the road segment . The node at either end of a road segment may correspond to a location at which the road meets another road i.e. an intersection or where the road dead ends. The road segment data record may also include data that indicate a classification such as a rank of a road segment that may correspond to its functional class. Example functional classes include arterial roads collector roads and local roads. The prerecorded path may include roads outside of the functional classification system. Alternatively an additional functional classification e.g. private roads temporary roads or personalized roads may be added to the geographic database to distinguish the prerecorded paths from other segments. Incident rates may be assigned to road segments based on functional classification.

The database may be maintained by a content provider e.g. a map developer . By way of example the map developer can collect geographic data to generate and enhance the geographic database. There can be different ways used by the map developer to collect data. These ways can include obtaining data from other sources such as municipalities or respective geographic authorities. In addition the map developer can employ field personnel to travel by vehicle along roads throughout the geographic region to observe features and or record information about them for example. Also remote sensing such as aerial or satellite photography can be used.

The computing device processor and or the server processor may include a general processor digital signal processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA analog circuit digital circuit combinations thereof or other now known or later developed processor. The mobile device processor and or the server processor may be a single device or combinations of devices such as associated with a network distributed processing or cloud computing. The computing device processor and or the server processor may also be configured to cause an apparatus to at least perform at least one of methods described above.

The memory and or memory may be a volatile memory or a non volatile memory. The memory and or memory may include one or more of a read only memory ROM random access memory RAM a flash memory an electronic erasable program read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory. The memory and or memory may be removable from the mobile device such as a secure digital SD memory card.

The communication interface and or communication interface may include any operable connection. An operable connection may be one in which signals physical communications and or logical communications may be sent and or received. An operable connection may include a physical interface an electrical interface and or a data interface. The communication interface and or communication interface provides for wireless and or wired communications in any now known or later developed format.

In the above described embodiments the network may include wired networks wireless networks or combinations thereof. The wireless network may be a cellular telephone network an 802.11 802.16 802.20 or WiMax network. Further the network may be a public network such as the Internet a private network such as an intranet or combinations thereof and may utilize a variety of networking protocols now available or later developed including but not limited to TCP IP based networking protocols.

While the non transitory computer readable medium is described to be a single medium the term computer readable medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

In a particular non limiting exemplary embodiment the computer readable medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the invention is not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP HTTPS represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a standalone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

As used in this application the term circuitry or circuit refers to all of the following a hardware only circuit implementations such as implementations in only analog and or digital circuitry and b to combinations of circuits and software and or firmware such as as applicable i to a combination of processor s or ii to portions of processor s software including digital signal processor s software and memory ies that work together to cause an apparatus such as a mobile phone or server to perform various functions and c to circuits such as a microprocessor s or a portion of a microprocessor s that require software or firmware for operation even if the software or firmware is not physically present.

This definition of circuitry applies to all uses of this term in this application including in any claims. As a further example as used in this application the term circuitry would also cover an implementation of merely a processor or multiple processors or portion of a processor and its or their accompanying software and or firmware. The term circuitry would also cover for example and if applicable to the particular claim element a baseband integrated circuit or applications processor integrated circuit for a mobile phone or a similar integrated circuit in server a cellular network device or other network device.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and anyone or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor receives instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer also includes or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to name just a few. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. E PROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a device having a display e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated while other proportions may be minimized. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings and described herein in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

It is intended that the foregoing detailed description be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting and that it is understood that the following claims including all equivalents are intended to define the scope of the invention. The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

