---

title: Exchanging floor arbitration history information during a communication session
abstract: In an embodiment, a communication device (e.g., a current floor arbitrator of the session, a proxy device, etc.) records a floor arbitration history that tracks one or more floor grants and one or more floor denials that occur while a first device is performing a floor arbitration function for the communication session with the communication group, and transmits some or all of the floor arbitration history to a second device during the communication session. The second device (e.g., a new floor arbitrator for the session, a late or re-joining participant to the communication session, etc.) participates in the communication session based at least in part upon the received floor arbitration history (e.g., by factoring the received floor arbitration history into future floor-related decisions, by selectively requesting particular missed portions of the communication session, etc.).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09456039&OS=09456039&RS=09456039
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09456039
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141031
---
Embodiments relate to exchanging floor arbitration history information during a communication session.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and third generation 3G and fourth generation 4G high speed data Internet capable wireless services. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

More recently Long Term Evolution LTE has been developed as a wireless communications protocol for wireless communication of high speed data for mobile phones and other data terminals. LTE is based on GSM and includes contributions from various GSM related protocols such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA .

LTE Direct LTE D is a proposed 3GPP Release 12 device to device D2D solution for proximate discovery. LTE D dispenses with location tracking and network calls by directly monitoring for services on other LTE D devices within a large range 500 m line of sight . LTE D operates as a synchronous system that is battery efficient and can concurrently detect thousands of services in proximity.

In an embodiment a communication device e.g. a current floor arbitrator of the session a proxy device etc. records a floor arbitration history that tracks one or more floor grants and one or more floor denials that occur while a first device is performing a floor arbitration function for the communication session with the communication group and transmits some or all of the floor arbitration history to a second device during the communication session. The second device e.g. a new floor arbitrator for the session a late or re joining participant to the communication session etc. participates in the communication session based at least in part upon the received floor arbitration history e.g. by factoring the received floor arbitration history into future floor related decisions by selectively requesting particular missed portions of the communication session etc. .

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. CDMA EVDO eHRPD GSM EDGE W CDMA LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE or UE over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to an application server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The application server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the application server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the application server via the core network and or the Internet .

Examples of protocol specific implementations for the RAN and the core network are provided below with respect to to help explain the wireless communications system in more detail. In particular the components of the RAN and the core network corresponds to components associated with supporting packet switched PS communications whereby legacy circuit switched CS components may also be present in these networks but any legacy CS specific components are not shown explicitly in .

In the core network includes the above noted SGSN B and potentially a number of other SGSNs as well and a GGSN B. Generally GPRS is a protocol used in GSM for routing IP packets. The GPRS core network e.g. the GGSN B and one or more SGSNs B is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G access networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network i.e. the core network that provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. UEs of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the Internet as if from one location at the GGSN B. This is achieved by transferring the respective UE s data from the UE s current SGSN B to the GGSN B which is handling the respective UE s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN B acts as an interface between a GPRS backbone network not shown and the Internet . The GGSN B extracts packet data with associated a packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from GPRS packets coming from the SGSN B and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN connected UE to the SGSN B which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of a target UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN B stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and its associated profile in a location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN B is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for a connected UE. The GGSN B also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN B is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN B includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN B stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN B for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs B are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN B ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN B iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN B via a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP protocol. RANAP operates over a Iu interface Iu ps with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN B communicates with the GGSN B via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN B and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs not shown and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . In the embodiment of the Gn between the SGSN B and the GGSN B carries both the GTP C and the GTP U. While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN B is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

In the core network includes a plurality of Mobility Management Entities MMEs D and D a Home Subscriber Server HSS D a Serving Gateway S GW D a Packet Data Network Gateway P GW D and a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF D. Network interfaces between these components the RAN and the Internet are illustrated in and are defined in Table 1 below as follows 

A high level description of the components shown in the RAN and core network of will now be described. However these components are each well known in the art from various 3GPP TS standards and the description contained herein is not intended to be an exhaustive description of all functionalities performed by these components.

Referring to the MMEs D and D are configured to manage the control plane signaling for the EPS bearers. MME functions include Non Access Stratum NAS signaling NAS signaling security Mobility management for inter and intra technology handovers P GW and S GW selection and MME selection for handovers with MME change.

Referring to the S GW D is the gateway that terminates the interface toward the RAN . For each UE associated with the core network for an EPS based system at a given point of time there is a single S GW. The functions of the S GW D for both the GTP based and the Proxy Mobile IPv6 PMIP based S5 S8 include Mobility anchor point Packet routing and forwarding and setting the DiffServ Code Point DSCP based on a QoS Class Identifier QCI of the associated EPS bearer.

Referring to the P GW D is the gateway that terminates the SGi interface toward the Packet Data Network PDN e.g. the Internet . If a UE is accessing multiple PDNs there may be more than one P GW for that UE however a mix of S5 S8 connectivity and Gn Gp connectivity is not typically supported for that UE simultaneously. P GW functions include for both the GTP based S5 S8 Packet filtering by deep packet inspection UE IP address allocation setting the DSCP based on the QCI of the associated EPS bearer accounting for inter operator charging uplink UL and downlink DL bearer binding as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203 UL bearer binding verification as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to both GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN UTRAN only UEs and E UTRAN capable UEs using any of E UTRAN GERAN or UTRAN. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to E UTRAN capable UEs using E UTRAN only over the S5 S8 interface.

Referring to the PCRF D is the policy and charging control element of the EPS based core network . In a non roaming scenario there is a single PCRF in the HPLMN associated with a UE s Internet Protocol Connectivity Access Network IP CAN session. The PCRF terminates the Rx interface and the Gx interface. In a roaming scenario with local breakout of traffic there may be two PCRFs associated with a UE s IP CAN session A Home PCRF H PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a HPLMN and a Visited PCRF V PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a visited VPLMN. PCRF is described in more detail in 3GPP TS 23.203 and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. In the application server e.g. which can be referred to as the AF in 3GPP terminology is shown as connected to the core network via the Internet or alternatively to the PCRF D directly via an Rx interface. Generally the application server or AF is an element offering applications that use IP bearer resources with the core network e.g. UMTS PS domain GPRS domain resources LTE PS data services . One example of an application function is the Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF of the IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Core Network sub system. The AF uses the Rx reference point to provide session information to the PCRF D. Any other application server offering IP data services over cellular network can also be connected to the PCRF D via the Rx reference point.

In the eHRPD RAN includes a plurality of base transceiver stations BTSs E E and E which are connected to an enhanced BSC eBSC and enhanced PCF ePCF E. The eBSC ePCF E can connect to one of the MMEs D or D within the EPS core network A over an S101 interface and to an HRPD serving gateway HSGW E over A10 and or A11 interfaces for interfacing with other entities in the EPS core network A e.g. the S GW D over an S103 interface the P GW D over an S2a interface the PCRF D over a Gxa interface a 3GPP AAA server not shown explicitly in over an STa interface etc. . The HSGW E is defined in 3GPP2 to provide the interworking between HRPD networks and EPS LTE networks. As will be appreciated the eHRPD RAN and the HSGW E are configured with interface functionality to EPC LTE networks that is not available in legacy HRPD networks.

Turning back to the eHRPD RAN in addition to interfacing with the EPS LTE network A the eHRPD RAN can also interface with legacy HRPD networks such as HRPD network B. As will be appreciated the HRPD network B is an example implementation of a legacy HRPD network such as the EV DO network from . For example the eBSC ePCF E can interface with an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server E via an A12 interface or to a PDSN FA E via an A10 or A11 interface. The PDSN FA E in turn connects to HA E through which the Internet can be accessed. In certain interfaces e.g. A13 A16 H1 H2 etc. are not described explicitly but are shown for completeness and would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art familiar with HRPD or eHRPD.

Referring to it will be appreciated that LTE core networks e.g. and HRPD core networks that interface with eHRPD RANs and HSGWs e.g. can support network initiated Quality of Service QoS e.g. by the P GW GGSN SGSN etc. in certain cases.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B one of BSs A through A one of Node Bs B through B one of eNodeBs D through D etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. PDSN SGSN GGSN S GW P GW MME HSS PCRF the application etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an embodiment that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

The various embodiments may be implemented on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as server illustrated in . In an example the server may correspond to one example configuration of the application server described above. In the server includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers or to the Internet. In context with it will be appreciated that the server of illustrates one example implementation of the communication device whereby the logic configured to transmit and or receive information corresponds to the network access ports used by the server to communicate with the network the logic configured to process information corresponds to the processor and the logic configuration to store information corresponds to any combination of the volatile memory the disk drive and or the disc drive . The optional logic configured to present information and the optional logic configured to receive local user input are not shown explicitly in and may or may not be included therein. Thus helps to demonstrate that the communication device may be implemented as a server in addition to a UE implementation as in A or B as in .

In accordance with various exemplary embodiments described herein one or more of UE UE UE UE UE and UE may support direct or D2D P2P communications whereby such UEs may support communicating with one another directly without having to communicate through another device or a network infrastructure element such as the first base station and the second base station and also support communications through the network infrastructure elements such as the first base station and or the second base station . In communications that involve network infrastructure signals may generally be transmitted and received through uplink and downlink connections between various UEs and the base stations such as links in the first cell and links in the second cell . Each of the base stations generally serves as the attachment point for the UEs in the corresponding cell and facilitates communications between the UEs served therein. In accordance with one aspect when two or more UEs such as UE and UE wish to communicate with one another and are located in sufficient proximity to each other then a direct P2P link can be established therebetween which may offload traffic from the base station serving the UEs allow UEs to communicate more efficiently or provide other advantages that will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

As shown in UE can communicate with UE through the second base station via links and and UEs and may further communicate via a P2P link . Furthermore for inter cell communications where the participating UEs are in different nearby cells a direct P2P communications link is still a possibility which is illustrated in where UE and UE may communicate using direct P2P communications illustrated by dashed link

LTE Direct LTE D is a proposed 3GPP Release 12 device to device D2D solution for proximate discovery. LTE D dispenses with location tracking and network calls by directly monitoring for services on other LTE D devices within a large range 500 m line of sight . LTE D operates as a synchronous system that is battery efficient and can concurrently detect thousands of services in proximity. LTE D has a wider range than other D2D P2P technologies such as WiFi Direct WFD or Bluetooth.

LTE D operates on licensed spectrum as a service to mobile applications. LTE D is a device to device D2D solution that enables service layer discovery and also D2D communication. Mobile applications on LTE D devices can instruct LTE D to monitor for mobile application services on other devices and announce their own services for detection by services on other LTE D devices at the physical layer. This allows the applications to be closed while LTE D does the work continuously and notify the client application when it detects a match to a monitor established by an associated application. For example the application can establish a monitor for tennis events and the LTE D discovery layer can wake up the application when a tennis related LTE D message is detected.

LTE D is thus an attractive alternative to mobile developers seeking to deploy proximate discovery solutions as extensions of their existing cloud services. LTE D is a distributed discovery solution versus the centralized discovery that exists today whereby mobile applications forego centralized database processing in identifying relevancy matches instead autonomously determining relevance at the device level by transmitting and monitoring for relevant attributes. LTE D offers certain benefits in terms of privacy as well as power consumption in that LTE D does not utilize perpetual location tracking to determine proximity. By keeping discovery on the device rather than in the cloud the user has more control of what information is shared with external devices.

LTE D relies upon Expressions for both discovery of proximate peers and facilitating communication between proximate peers. Expressions at the application or service layer are referred to as Expression Names e.g. ShirtSale Gap.com Jane Facebook.com etc. . Expression Names at the application layer are mapped to bit strings at the physical layer that are referred to as Expression Codes . In an example each Expression Code can have a length of 192 bits e.g. 11001111 . . . 1011 etc. . As will be appreciated any reference to a particular Expression can be used to refer to the Expression s associated Expression Name Expression Code or both depending upon the context. Expressions can be either Private or Public. Public Expressions are made public and can be identified by any application whereby Private Expressions are targeted for specific audiences. Expressions can be configured to identify and characterize LTE D groups or alternatively can be configured to identify and characterize individual LTE D devices.

Public Expressions can be externally provisioned by a server AES in which case the Public Expressions are referred to as public managed expressions which can be provisioned at the LTE D device via out of band signaling. Public Expressions can alternatively be managed locally by the client application on the LTE D device itself in which case the Public Expressions are referred to as unmanaged expressions.

Discovery in LTE D operates in a synchronous manner based on parameters that are configured by the LTE network itself. For example frequency division duplexing FDD and or time division duplexing TDD may be assigned by a serving eNode B via a Session Information Block SIB . The serving eNode B can also configure an interval at which LTE D devices to are announce themselves e.g. every 20 seconds etc. via transmission of a Service Discovery or P2P Discovery message. For example for a 10 MHz FDD system the eNode B can allocate Physical Uplink Shared Channel PUSCH radio bearers RBs to be used for discovery in accordance with a discovery period that occurs every 20 seconds and includes 64 sub frames such that the number of direct discovery resources DRIDs is 44 64 2816.

For example assume that each LTE D device periodically transmits an individual P2P discovery message or I P2PDM at the 20 second interval. Each I P2PDM individually identifies the LTE D device that transmits the I P2PDM. For example in LTE D the I P2PDM can include the Private or Public Expression for the associated LTE D device. One or more LTE D devices that belong to a particular LTE D group may also be assigned the task of periodically transmitting a group P2P discovery message or G P2PDM on a periodic basis which may be the same or different from the interval at which the I P2PDMs are transmitted. In LTE D the G P2PDM can include the Private or Public Expression for the associated LTE D group itself as opposed to the I P2PDM which carried the Private or Public Expression for an individual LTE D device. In an example less than all of the LTE D group members may be asked to transmit the G P2PDM to reduce interference and improve battery life in scenarios where a high number of proximate LTE D group members are present.

For successful half duplex group communication either in a P2P environment e.g. LTE D WiFi Direct WLAN etc. or in a wireless wide area network WWAN environment knowledge of floor arbitration history during a particular session is used for effective floor management. For example if a particular speaker is hogging the floor of a half duplex communication session the floor arbitrator may seek to transition the floor away from the current floorholder to another floorholder that has requested the floor to promote fairness and avoid floor starvation. However a particularly high ranked floorholder may be permitted to hold onto the floor for extended periods of time. In any case the floor arbitration history can be leveraged at least in part to impact future floor decisions by the floor arbitrator. illustrate conventional procedures by which floor arbitrators make floor decisions.

In assume that the floor arbitrator selection scheme for the P2P group is that the floor arbitrator for the P2P session is set to the session originator. This is a simple way to select the floor arbitrator and guarantees that the floor arbitrator will always have access to the full floor arbitration history for the P2P session but has certain drawbacks e.g. the session may terminate automatically if the session originator drops out of the P2P session the session originator may not be in an optimal position relative to the other session participants for performing the floor arbitration function etc. . Accordingly each of UEs and . . . N agree to join the P2P session initiated by UE with UE established as floor arbitrator for the P2P session by virtue of being the session originator . Also UE is established as the initial floorholder for the P2P session by virtue of being the session originator .

At this point UE begins to transmit media over the P2P interface to UEs and . . . N . At some later point during the P2P session UE sends a floor request to UE . The floor request is granted by UE and UE sends a floor grant message back to UE . UE also notifies UEs . . . N that UE is the new floorholder for the P2P session .

At this point UE begins to transmit media over the P2P interface to the UEs . . . N . UE later leaves the P2P session e.g. UE moves outside of direct communication range with one or more of UEs . . . N an operator of UE decides to end participation in the session etc. . After UE leaves the P2P session UE sends a floor request to UE . The floor request is granted by UE and UE sends a floor grant message back to UE . UE also notifies UEs and . . . N that UE is the new floorholder for the P2P session . UE begins to transmit media over the P2P interface to the UEs and . . . N . At some later point during the P2P session assume that UE determines to end the P2P session . UE thereby messages the remaining session participants i.e. UEs . . . N to notify them of the session termination and .

Referring to assume that UEs . . . N belong to a P2P group are in direct communication range of each other and perform a P2P discovery procedure to detect each other s presence . The P2P discovery procedure can be conducted over a P2P interface in an example such as an LTE D discovery interface or a WiFi Direct discovery interface. At some later point in time while UEs . . . N are still in direct communication range with each other UE originates and initiates setup of a P2P session . Each of UEs and . . . N agree to join the P2P session initiated by UE with UE established as the initial floorholder for the P2P session and thereby also established as the initial floor arbitrator for the P2P session by virtue of being the floorholder and .

At this point UE begins to transmit media over the P2P interface to UEs and . . . N . UE later sends a floor request to UE . The floor request is granted by UE and UE sends a floor grant message back to UE . The P2P group is notified that UE is the new floorholder for the P2P session . Further because the floor arbitrator selection scheme for the P2P group in is that the floor arbitrator for the P2P session is set to a current floorholder UE also becomes the new floor arbitrator for the P2P session and the P2P group is notified of the floor arbitrator transition .

Referring to UE begins to transmit media over the P2P interface to the UEs . . . N . At some later point during the P2P session UE sends a floor request to UE . The floor request is granted by UE and UE sends a floor grant message back to UE . The P2P group is notified UEs . . . N that UE is the new floorholder for the P2P session .

Further because the floor arbitrator selection scheme for the P2P group in is that the floor arbitrator for the P2P session is set to a current floorholder UE also becomes the new floor arbitrator for the session and the P2P group is notified of the floor arbitrator transition . At this point UE begins to transmit media over the P2P interface to the UEs . . . N . UE later determines to end the communication session . UE thereby messages the remaining session participants i.e. UEs and . . . N to notify them of the session termination and .

At some later point during the communication session UE sends a floor request to the application server the application server grants UE l s floor request and the communication group is notified of the floor change . UE transmits media to the application server which is then retransmitted by the application server to UEs . . . N .

At some later point during the communication session the application server transitions the floor arbitration function for the communication session to UE . For example the transition of can be triggered by the application server determining that UEs . . . N are proximately located and are capable of supporting the communication session via P2P. After the transition of the rest of the communication group is notified that UE is the new floor arbitrator for the communication session . Because assumes that the floor arbitrator also functions as a media relay for the communication session UE continues as floorholder by transmitting media to UE via P2P which is then retransmitted by the UE to UEs . . . N . UE sends a floor request to UE via P2P and UE grants UE s floor request . At this point UE notifies the communication group that UE is the new floorholder and UE begins to transmit media to UE via P2P which is then retransmitted by the UE to UEs and optionally if N 3 . . . N .

With respect to shows an example whereby the floor arbitrator has access to the full floor arbitration history for the communication session by virtue of the floor arbitrator being unchanged throughout the communication session. However both show examples whereby the floor arbitrator is transitioned during the communication session. In these cases any floor arbitration history tracked by an old floor arbitrator would not be conveyed to a new floor arbitrator. Accordingly the new floor arbitrator will make floor decisions that only factors historical floor arbitration decisions that were made while the new floor arbitrator itself was performing the floor arbitration function. Also UEs that join the communication session late and or UEs that miss part of the communication session e.g. by dropping out of the communication session and later re joining the communication session typically cannot recover any missed floor arbitration history while the communication session is active.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention are directed to transmitting some or all of a floor arbitration history that is recorded while a first device is performing a floor arbitration function to a second device during a communication session as shown in at a high level.

While UE is the floorholder UEs and each send floor requests to UE and . UE grants the floor to UE while denying the floor requests from UEs and . Accordingly UE notifies the communication group that UE is the new floorholder and UE then updates a floor arbitration history for the P2P session . In an example the floor arbitration history after the update of can be configured as follows 

In Table 2 above the Floorholder Position field indicates the order in which the corresponding floorholder identified in the Floorholder field became floorholder for the P2P session. In this case UE is the first floorholder for the P2P session and thereby has a floorholder position of 1. Also the Floorholder field implicitly indicates the floorholder s that were granted the floor by a previous floor arbitrator decision. The Duration field indicates how long the corresponding floorholder identified in the Floorholder field was floorholder for the P2P session. In this case UE was floorholder for a duration of 140 seconds. The Floor Denial s field lists each floor request that was denied by the floor arbitrator i.e. UE while the corresponding floorholder identified in the Floorholder field was floorholder for the P2P session. In this case UE s floor request from arrived 130 seconds into UE s duration as floorholder while UE s floor request from arrive 135 seconds into UE s duration as floorholder. Finally the Floor Denial Reason s field indicates the reason s why the floor requests identified in the Floor Denial s field were rejected. In this case assume that the floor requests from UE s and were rejected because UE also requested the floor at and UE has a higher priority than either UEs or . As will be explained in more detail below the priority or talker rank for a particular UE can decrease the longer that particular UE holds the floor to promote fairness and avoid floor starvation. Likewise the priority or talker rank for a particular UE can increase the longer that particular UE does not hold the floor e.g. each time a floor request is rejected the priority of the rejected UE may increase somewhat to promote fairness and avoid floor starvation. In a further example any combination of the fields shown in Table 2 above can be part of a floor arbitration history and one or more other fields not shown may also form part of the floor arbitration history in other embodiments of the invention e.g. a listing of current talker ranks for each session participants which is used to make floor decisions where a talker rank is decreased for a speaker that holds the floor for more than a threshold period of time or obtains the floor more than a threshold number of times and a talker rank is increased for a speaker that holds the floor for less than a threshold period of time or obtains the floor less than a threshold number of times etc. .

Returning to after UE is granted the floor at UE begins to stream media to UEs . . . via P2P . While UE is the floorholder UEs and each send floor requests to UE and . UE grants the floor to UE while denying the floor request from UE . Accordingly UE notifies the communication group that UE is the new floorholder and UE then updates the floor arbitration history for the P2P session . In an example the floor arbitration history after the update of can be configured as follows 

In Table 3 above the Floorholder Position field indicates that UE was the first floorholder for the P2P session while UE was the second floorholder for the P2P session. In other words the Floorholder field indicates that UE was granted the floor first and UE was granted the floor second. The Duration field is updated from Table 2 to reflect that UE held the floor for 80 seconds. The Floor Denial s field is updated from Table 2 to reflect that UE s floor request was rejected 77 seconds into UE s duration as floorholder. The Floor Denial Reason s field is updated from Table 2 to reflect that UE s floor request was rejected because UE s floor request at arrived before UE s floor request at . After UE is granted the floor at UE begins to stream media to UEs and via P2P .

Referring to after of while UE is still the floorholder for the P2P session UE transitions the floor arbitration function to UE . In an example the floor arbitrator transition of can be triggered by any number of reasons e.g. a manual user decision at UE a request from UE a detection that the network topology has changed which makes UE a more suitable floor arbitrator from a location standpoint a battery level of UE dropping below a threshold and so on . At the P2P group is notified that UE is the new floor arbitrator for the P2P session. In a further example after the transition of UE can stop recording any additional floor history information.

In conjunction with transitioning the floor arbitration function to UE at UE also sends some or all of the floor arbitration history that was tracked by UE while UE was the floor arbitrator to UE . In an example UE may transfer the entire floor arbitration history to UE at . In an alternative example UE may transfer portions of the floor arbitration history that are deemed most relevant to UE at such as the last 10 or 15 minutes of floor arbitration history for the P2P session while discarding any older floor arbitration history and so on. Further additional call log information can also be shared with the new floor arbitrator at e.g. the number and identities of currently participating UEs a complete list of UEs that are registered to the P2P group UEs that previously participated in the P2P session but have dropped out of the P2P session how long each currently participating UE has been a part of the P2P session and so on .

Because UE is also the current floorholder for the P2P session UE continues to stream media to UEs and via P2P . While UE is the floorholder UEs and each send floor requests to UE and . UE determines to grant the floor to UE based at least in part on the floor arbitration history received from UE at . For example two of UE s floor requests were denied during the process of while each of UEs and were each granted the floor at some point during the P2P session. UE can take UE s perceived floor starvation into account to increase UE s talker rank or priority to increase the chances that UE will receive the floor. For example a talker rank for UE can be augmented each time UE is denied the floor which functions to increase UE s future chances of obtaining a floor grant culminating in UE determining to grant the floor to UE at after which UE s talker rank is reset to a lower level. Of course if UE were a particularly low ranked talker UE may not obtain the floor despite being floor starved e.g. some low ranked UEs may not receive talker rank increments even when denied the floor and likewise some high ranked UEs may not receive talker rank decrements when they obtain the floor or hold the floor for a long time . As will be appreciated if the floor arbitration history recorded by UE were not shared with UE at UE s previously denied floor requests would not have contributed to the floor decision made by UE at which would not be fair to UE .

In the embodiment of UE rejects the floor requests from UEs and while granting the floor request from UE . Accordingly UE notifies the communication group that UE is the new floorholder and UE then updates the floor arbitration history for the P2P session . In an example UE can update the floor arbitration history at by appending data onto the floor arbitration history received from UE as follows 

In Table 4 above the Floorholder Position field indicates that UE was the first floorholder for the P2P session UE was the second floorholder for the P2P session and UE was the third floorholder for the P2P session. In other words the Floorholder field indicates that UE was granted the floor first UE was granted the floor second and UE was granted the floor third. The Duration field is updated from Table 3 to reflect that UE held the floor for 60 seconds. The Floor Denial s field is updated from Table 3 to reflect that the floor requests from UEs and were rejected 57 seconds into UE s duration as floorholder. The Floor Denial Reason s field is updated from Table 3 to reflect that the floor requests from UEs and were rejected due to UE having been previously denied the floor multiple times during the P2P session. After UE is granted the floor at UE begins to stream media to UEs . . . via P2P .

Referring to after of while UE is still the floorholder for the P2P session UE transitions the floor arbitration function to the application server . In an example the floor arbitrator transition of can be triggered by any number of reasons e.g. a manual user decision at UE a request from the application server a detection that the network topology has changed which makes the application server more suitable floor arbitrator from a location standpoint because UEs . . . are no longer all in direct P2P communication range of each other and or proximate to each other a battery level of UE dropping below a threshold and so on . In a further example after the transition of UE can stop recording any additional floor history information. At the P2P group is notified that the application server is the new floor arbitrator for the P2P session. may involve an initial P2P notification from UE because UEs and are not necessarily connected to the RAN during the P2P session. However the application server could notify the communication group of the floor arbitrator transition for any RAN connected UEs.

In conjunction with transitioning the floor arbitration function to the application server at UE also sends some or all of the floor arbitration history that was tracked by UE while UE was the floor arbitrator to the application server . In an example UE may transfer the entire floor arbitration history to the application server at . In an alternative example UE may transfer portions of the floor arbitration history that are deemed most relevant to the application server at such as the last 10 or 15 minutes of floor arbitration history for the P2P session while discarding any older floor arbitration history and so on. Further additional call log information can also be shared with the new floor arbitrator at e.g. the number and identities of currently participating UEs UEs that previously participated in the P2P session but have dropped out of the P2P session how long each currently participating UE has been a part of the P2P session and so on .

In the embodiment of assume that the application server takes over as floor arbitrator at without becoming a media relay for the P2P session. For example floor arbitration signaling can be directed to or from the application server whereas media is exchanged directly via a P2P interface. It will be appreciated that an alternative embodiment could involve the application server functioning as both floor arbitrator and media relay whereby the floorholder transmits its media to the application server via the RAN after which the application server retransmits the floorholder s media to the rest of the communication group via the RAN .

Because UE is the current floorholder for the P2P session UE continues to stream media to UEs and via P2P . While UE is the floorholder UEs and each send floor requests to UE and . The application server determines to grant the floor to UE based at least in part on the floor arbitration history received from UE at . For example two of UE s floor requests were denied during the process of while each of UEs and were each granted the floor at some point during the P2P session. The application server can take UE s perceived floor starvation into account to increase UE s talker rank or priority to increase the chances that UE will receive the floor. For example a talker rank for UE can be augmented each time UE is denied the floor which functions to increase UE s future chances of obtaining a floor grant culminating in the application server determining to grant the floor to UE at after which UE s talker rank is reset to a lower level. Of course if UE were a particularly low ranked talker UE may not obtain the floor despite being floor starved e.g. some low ranked UEs may not receive talker rank increments even when denied the floor and likewise some high ranked UEs may not receive talker rank decrements when they obtain the floor or hold the floor for a long time . As will be appreciated if the floor arbitration history recorded by UE were not shared with the application server at UE s previously denied floor requests would not have contributed to the floor decision made by the application server at which would not be fair to UE .

The remainder of the process of substantially corresponds to the process of except for the application server performing the floor arbitration function in as opposed to UE . Accordingly the application server rejects the floor requests from UEs and while granting the floor request from UE . The application server notifies the communication group that UE is the new floorholder and the application server then updates the floor arbitration history for the P2P session e.g. as in Table 4 above . After UE is granted the floor at UE begins to stream media to UEs . . . via P2P .

Referring to at some point after of while UE is still the floor arbitrator for the P2P session assume that UE misses part of the P2P session e.g. due to fading conditions driving through a tunnel a user temporarily switching to a different call etc. . In conjunction with resuming participating in the P2P session after UE queries the current floor arbitrator i.e. UE for the floor arbitration history at least for the missed period . UE sends the requested portion of the floor arbitration history to UE . Further a new UE UE joins the P2P session . In conjunction with joining the P2P session UE queries the current floor arbitrator i.e. UE for at least a portion of the floor arbitration history e.g. all of the floor arbitration history the past 20 minutes of floor arbitration history etc. . UE sends the requested portion of the floor arbitration history to UE .

At UE requests one or more missing talk spurts identified in the floor arbitration history from the media reception gap that occurred at . The request of can be automatically generated by UE e.g. all missed talk spurts are automatically requested any missed talk spurts from pre defined speakers of interest to UE are automatically requested etc. or the request of can be manually configured e.g. the floor arbitration history acquired at is presented to an operator of UE which then selects the talk spurts to be requested at . At UE provides the requested talk spurts to UE and UE plays some or all of the talk spurts .

At UE requests one or more talk spurts identified in the floor arbitration history that occurred prior to UE joining the P2P session. The request of can be automatically generated by UE e.g. all earlier talk spurts are automatically requested any earlier talk spurts from pre defined speakers of interest to UE are automatically requested etc. or the request of can be manually configured e.g. the floor arbitration history acquired at is presented to an operator of UE which then selects the talk spurts to be requested at . At UE provides the requested talk spurts to UE and UE plays some or all of the talk spurts .

As noted above may occur in parallel with real time participation of the P2P session so the playback of or can occur as a text transcript via audio output while temporary muting the live P2P session and so on. Also the P2P session could involve other types of media e.g. video text image transfer etc. so the talk spurts described with respect to are not necessarily intended to be construed as audio only in an example but could include any media type or any combination of media types.

Referring to after of while UE is still the floorholder for the P2P session UE transitions the floor arbitration function to UE e.g. similar to of . In an example after the transition of UE can stop recording any additional floor history information. At the P2P group is notified that UE is the new floor arbitrator for the P2P session. After the proxy UE i.e. UE is notified of the floor arbitrator transition at UE sends some or all of the floor arbitration history that was tracked by UE while UE was the floor arbitrator to UE e.g. similar to of except the floor arbitration history is transferred by the proxy UE instead of the old floor arbitrator . At this point UE may either continue its function as proxy UE or else the new floor arbitrator may also take over responsibility for updating the floor arbitration history. For example as shown in optional blocks and UE may continue its proxy function or UE may update the floor arbitration history on its own or both and may be performed e.g. if UE is performing the proxy function as a back up to the floor arbitrator . Except for these differences through substantially correspond to through of respectively.

Referring to after of while UE is still the floorholder for the P2P session UE transitions the floor arbitration function to the application server e.g. similar to of . In an example after the transition of UE can stop recording any additional floor history information. At the P2P group is notified that the application server is the new floor arbitrator for the P2P session. After the proxy UE i.e. UE is notified of the floor arbitrator transition at UE sends some or all of the floor arbitration history that was tracked by UE while UE was the floor arbitrator to the application server e.g. similar to of except the floor arbitration history is transferred by the proxy UE instead of the old floor arbitrator . At this point UE may either continue its function as proxy UE or else the new floor arbitrator may also take over responsibility for updating the floor arbitration history. For example as shown in optional blocks and UE may continue its proxy function or the application server may update the floor arbitration history on its own or both and may be performed e.g. if UE is performing the proxy function as a back up to the floor arbitrator . Except for these differences through substantially correspond to through of respectively.

Referring to UE sends a session origination request to the application server via the RAN the application server announces the communication session UEs and each join the communication session and . The application server grants the floor to UE and starts the communication session . UE begins to stream media to the application server via the RAN and the application server transmits UE s media to UEs and .

While UE is the floorholder UEs and each send floor requests to the application server and . The application server grants the floor to UE while denying the floor requests from UEs and . Accordingly the application server notifies the communication group that UE is the new floorholder and the application server then updates a floor arbitration history for the communication session e.g. as in Table 2 above . After UE is granted the floor at UE begins to stream media to the application server via the RAN and the application server transmits UE s media to UEs . . . . While UE is the floorholder UEs and each send floor requests to the application server and . The application server grants the floor to UE while denying the floor request from UE . Accordingly the application server notifies the communication group that UE is the new floorholder and the application server then updates the floor arbitration history for the communication session . After UE is granted the floor at UE begins to stream media to the application server via the RAN and the application server transmits UE s media to UEs and .

Referring to after of while UE is still the floorholder for the communication session the application server transitions the floor arbitration function to UE . In an example the floor arbitrator transition of can be triggered by any number of reasons e.g. a request from UE a detection that the network topology has changed which makes local P2P arbitration possible for the communication session such as UEs . . . being in direct P2P communication range of each other so as to support the communication session via P2P and so on . In a further example after the transition of the application server can stop recording any additional floor history information. Assume that the floor arbitrator transition of also ends the application server s function as media relay such that media is thereafter exchanged directly between UEs . . . via P2P. This effectively transitions the server arbitrated communication session to a P2P session with UEs . . . now functioning as a P2P group. At the P2P group is notified that UE is the new floor arbitrator for the P2P session. The notification of can either be transmitted by the application server or by UE via P2P.

In conjunction with transitioning the floor arbitration function to UE at the application server also sends some or all of the floor arbitration history that was tracked by the application server while the application server was the floor arbitrator to UE . In an example the application server may transfer the entire floor arbitration history to UE at . In an alternative example the application server may transfer portions of the floor arbitration history that are deemed most relevant to UE at such as the last 10 or 15 minutes of floor arbitration history for the communication session while discarding any older floor arbitration history and so on. Further additional call log information can also be shared with the new floor arbitrator at e.g. the number and identities of currently participating UEs UEs that previously participated in the communication session but have dropped out of the communication session how long each currently participating UE has been a part of the communication session and so on . through substantially correspond to through of respectively and as such will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity.

Further in any of the arbitration decision logic executed by the various floor arbitrators can either be the same or different from arbitrator to arbitrator. For example one arbitrator may weight total floor time more heavily than user priority when making floor decisions while another arbitrator weights user priority more heavily than total floor time. Irrespective of any arbitrator specific arbitration decision logic the above noted embodiments whereby arbitrators leverage a more complete floor arbitration history to make floor decisions can still be used.

Further while generally describe a single floor arbitrator transition it will be appreciated that the floor arbitrator can be transitioned multiple times during a communication session. In this case it is possible that some component of the floor arbitration history recorded by each old floor arbitrator is passed to a new floor arbitrator at each arbitrator transition e.g. at of of in an example . Alternatively the floor arbitration history passed to each new floor arbitrator may be limited in some manner for example by a number of floor arbitrators e.g. pass the complete floor arbitration histories recorded by the previous two floor arbitrators and omitting any older floor arbitration histories from earlier floor arbitrators by time e.g. pass the previous 10 or 15 minutes of floor arbitrator history irrespective of how many floor arbitration transitions have occurred in the previous 10 or 15 minutes or any combination thereof.

Further for any of the P2P specific embodiments discussed above mixed mode support can be used to extend the above described P2P sessions to one or more UEs that cannot support multicasting with the rest of the P2P group via the P2P interface e.g. a primarily P2P session can be extended to one or more non P2P participants via a network link over the RAN . Also while some of the above described embodiments are described with respect to LTE D in part it will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the above described embodiments can be implemented with respect to any D2D P2P technology or interface e.g. LTE D WFD Bluetooth near field communication NFC etc. .

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

