---

title: Methods, devices, and systems for forming atomically precise structures
abstract: Methods, devices, and systems for forming atomically precise structures are provided. In some embodiments, the methods, devices, and systems of the present disclosure utilize a scanning tunneling microscope (STM) to remove portions of a monolayer of atoms or molecules from a crystalline surface to form atomically precise structures. The STM is utilized to both image the sample and remove the desired portions of the monolayer of atoms or molecules. In some instances, the lattice structure of the crystalline surface is utilized as a coordinate system by a control system of the STM to facilitate the automated removal of specific atoms or molecules from the crystalline surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09329201&OS=09329201&RS=09329201
owner: Zyvex Labs LLC
number: 09329201
owner_city: Richardson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140313
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 788 103 filed Mar. 15 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made under Contract Number N66001 08 C 2040 between Zyvex Labs LLC and Spawar Systems Center Pacific operated for the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present disclosure relates to methods devices and systems for forming atomically precise structures. In some embodiments the methods devices and systems of the present disclosure utilize a scanning tunneling microscope STM to remove portions of a monolayer of atoms or molecules from a crystalline surface to form the atomically precise structures.

The ability to image surfaces at atomically precise levels stems from the capabilities of the STM. While there have been many different implementations since its invention in 1982 the fundamental operating principle of a STM is as follows. A conducting tip often tungsten or platinum iridium that has been prepared so as to have a nanoscopic portion of the tip which allows electrons to tunnel to or from the nanoscopic portion of the tip to a sample. The tip is brought in close proximity e.g. within a few nm to a surface of a sample. Due to the principle of quantum electron tunneling a current flows across the gap between tip and the sample when a bias voltage is applied between the tip and the sample. The bias voltage applied between the tip and the sample can be either polarity. If the sample is negatively biased with respect to the tip then electrons flow from the filled electronic states on the surface into the tip. If the sample is positively biased then electrons flow from the tip into the empty electronic states of the surface. The magnitude of the bias voltage determines the surface states that are available to tunnel into or out of. Thus the STM provides information about the electronic states as well as the topography of the surface of the sample.

The resulting current between the tip and the sample based on the applied bias voltage varies exponentially relative to the distance between the tip and the surface of the sample. As a result of this strong dependence on the relative position of the tip to the sample the height of the tip above the surface can be precisely controlled. Often a piezoelectric element is used to control movement of the tip up and down i.e. z direction until the measured tunnel current matches a set point value which is in the range of 0.01 100 nA. Piezoelectric elements are also commonly used to move the tip sideways i.e. x y directions across the surface of the sample. As a result topographic images of the surface can be generated by performing a raster scan of part of the surface. Other than the feedback loop that controls the tip height most of the tip motions are open loop and prone to creep and hysteresis.

In order to have the tip access larger areas of a sample and to allow the tip to approach a sample many STM systems also include both fine motion control and coarse motion control for the X Y and Z axes. For instance coarse motion is in the range of tens of nanometers to tens of millimeters with a precision finer than the maximum fine motion range. Most STM systems include some vibration isolation mechanisms to prevent external vibrations from disturbing the system operation.

Most STMs and virtually all commercially available STMs are designed to be laboratory tools for surface science imaging and measurements. There are many operational aspects of these instruments that make them poorly suited for computer controlled reliable atomically precise patterning with high productivity.

Hydrogen depassivation lithography where a STM is used to remove hydrogen atoms from a silicon surface has been established since the mid 1990s. See for example Appl. Phys. Lett. 64 15 11 Apr. 1994 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Further Lyding and Hersam demonstrated that individual hydrogen atoms could be targeted and removed from a silicon substrate such as in Hersam M. C. et al. Silicon based Molecular Nanotechnology Nanotechnology 11 2000 70 76 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Since then a number of practitioners have demonstrated the ability to form patterns using hydrogen depassivation for various purposes. However the limitations of current hydrogen depassivation lithography techniques have prevented the use of the hydrogen depassivation lithography as viable automated manufacturing technique for atomically precise structures.

Hydrogen depassivation lithography can be accomplished at different biases and set point currents. There are several different regimes that are distinct from one another in important aspects. Typically during depassivation lithography the sample is positive with respect to the tip so that electrons flow from the tip to the sample. At biases below 7V the hydrogen depassivation efficiency is a strong function of the bias and is also dependent on the current. The depassivation efficiencies are in general very poor. For example according to Shen Science Vol 268 16 Jun. 1995 p. 1591 at 3V and 1 nA more than 10 billion electrons are required to depassivate a single hydrogen atom. The depassivation efficiency rises dramatically with bias until 7V where approximately half a million electrons are required to depassivate a single hydrogen atom and there is no longer a dependence on current. From 7 12V the depassivation efficiency is essentially constant and does not depend on current.

There is also significant difference in how the electron reaches the sample from the tip at the lower biases versus higher biases. At low positive sample biases the electrons tunnel from the tip to the sample and the physics favors most electrons finding the shortest path resulting in most electrons tunneling to the same nanoscopic area with very few electrons reaching the surface outside of this very small area. Because of this process at biases of approximately 4 volts and below atomic precision patterning is possible. Indeed single hydrogen atoms may be targeted and removed at low biases. Also it is possible to create patterns where all hydrogen atoms are removed fully saturated depassivation within the desired area and no atoms removed outside the pattern or at most the edge of the pattern will deviate by no more than the distance of one atom from the designed pattern. This is generally referred to as atomically precise patterning in the present disclosure. At higher biases there is the opportunity for field emission Fowler Nordheim tunneling of electrons from the tip into the vacuum and then a short trip along field lines to the sample. This electron path along with the fact that the tip will generally be further from the sample at higher biases results in electrons reaching the sample over larger areas. The result is that atomic precision patterning is not possible.

While hydrogen depassivation has been reported with a negative sample bias the efficiency of the process is even worse than that of a positive sample bias and the mechanism of depassivation in this context is not well understood. On the other hand the extremely low depassivation efficiency at low negative sample biases permits effective imaging without imparting depassivation. It is also possible to image the sample with little or no depassivation at low positive sample biases with low set point currents.

Hydrogen depassivation lithography is the only lithographic process that has demonstrated atomic resolution patterning and it has the advantage of having the same tool that does the patterning the STM to also be capable of examining the patterning area before and after exposure. However in the atomically precise mode of patterning the process is extremely inefficient.

In some respects depassivation lithography is effectively e beam lithography operating on the limit of a thin resist. It can be instructive to compare this subset of e beam lithography with conventional e beam lithography. Conventional e beam lithography is an important industrial and research tool that can make very fine patterns by focusing a beam of electrons down to a small Gaussian spot or other shape on a substrate. Electron beam columns use high voltage to generate very energetic beams operate in high to ultra high vacuums and use magnetic and or electrostatic lenses blankers and deflectors to shape blank and scan the beam. The electron beam exposes a thin layer of resist material usually a polymeric material and changes its properties in a manner usually chemical bond breaking or crosslinking so that a portion of the resist either the exposed or unexposed portion can be removed by a subsequent development step. The pattern formed from the resist is transferred to the underlying substrate by a variety of processes that can be additive patterned deposition or subtractive patterned etching . A combination of electron beam deflection and blanking and often the movement of the substrate allows a designed pattern to be exposed over the desired portion of the substrate. The main industrial use of e beam lithography is to write masks used in the production of very large scale integrated circuits.

While hydrogen depassivation lithography is also a form of e beam lithography in that it uses beam of electrons with a small spot size to serially expose a resist to create a desired pattern there are a number of significant differences. The electron beam energy is typically 1 000 100 000V for conventional e beam lithography and is 100V or less for hydrogen depassivation lithography. Principally because of this difference in electron energy with conventional e beam lithography there is significant proximity exposure of the resist while there is little if any proximity effect exposure with hydrogen depassivation lithography. Conventional e beam lithography systems have complicated and expensive electron optics while hydrogen depassivation lithography has a tip and a substrate. Conventional e beam lithography systems cannot image without exposing the resist while this is possible with hydrogen depassivation lithography. In conventional e beam lithography higher electron energy leads to smaller optimized spots but lower efficiency for exposing resist. In hydrogen depassivation lithography a higher current at a fixed electron energy will bring the tip closer to the sample which can produce a smaller exposing spot. In hydrogen depassivation lithography higher electron energy leads to larger spots and higher resist exposing efficiency. In conventional e beam lithography for optimized beams at a fixed electron energy a smaller spot will require a smaller beam current.

While it is conceivable to adapt some of the techniques used in conventional e beam lithography systems to develop a robust reliable STM based e beam lithography system the significant differences outlined above will require novel approaches in that development.

Accordingly there remains a need for improved methods devices and systems for forming atomically precise structures.

For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the present disclosure reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. It is nevertheless understood that no limitation to the scope of the disclosure is intended. Any alterations and further modifications to the described methods devices and systems and any further application of the principles of the present disclosure are fully contemplated and included within the present disclosure as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the disclosure relates. In particular it is fully contemplated that the steps features and or components described with respect to one embodiment may be combined with the steps features and or components described with respect to other embodiments of the present disclosure. For the sake of brevity however the numerous iterations of these combinations will not be described separately.

Referring initially to shown therein is a STM system according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. As shown a sample is positioned in close proximity to a tip of the STM system . The tip is a conducting tip e.g. formed of tungsten platinum iridium or other suitable conductive material that has been prepared so as to have a nanoscopic portion of the tip which allows electrons to tunnel to or from the nanoscopic portion of the tip to a sample. With the tip positioned close to an upper surface of the sample current flows across the gap between the tip and the sample when a bias voltage is applied between the tip and the sample due to the principle of electron tunneling. The bias voltage applied between the tip and the sample can be either polarity. If the sample is negatively biased with respect to the tip then electrons flow from the filled electronic states on the surface into the tip . If the sample is positively biased then electrons flow from the tip into the empty electronic states of the surface. The magnitude of the bias voltage determines the surface states that are available to tunnel into or out of.

During electron tunneling the resulting current between the tip and the sample based on the applied bias voltage varies exponentially relative to the distance between the tip and the surface of the sample . As a result of this strong dependence on the relative position of the tip to the sample the height of the tip above the surface can be precisely controlled. In the illustrated embodiment a controller precisely controls the movement of the tip relative to the sample . The controller includes a piezoelectric element coupled to a plurality of electrodes . While the piezoelectric element is depicted as a single element it is understood that the piezoelectric element includes a plurality of piezoelectric elements in some instances. To this end in some implementations one or more piezoelectric elements are configured to control movement of the tip in a particular direction or directions e.g. x direction y direction and or z direction . By controlling the application of voltage to the piezoelectric element via the electrodes the controller is able to control movement of the tip relative to the sample and the sample bias unit tunneling voltage . To this end a plurality of electrical leads couple the electrodes to a control unit . Also electrical lead couples the control unit to the sample bias unit to allow the control of the sample bias. In some instances the control unit determines the appropriate voltage to be applied to each electrode to impart the desired movement to the tip .

In some embodiments the scanning tunnelling microscope system includes both fine motion control e.g. on the order of an Angstrom to a micron and coarse motion control e.g. which can be as large as required for the job at hand. For instance there are high resolution stages from Attocube PI and other vendors that allow more than a cm of motion and larger range of motion is in principle possible. In some instances course motion is in the range of tens of nanometers to tens of millimeters with a precision finer than the maximum fine motion range . In that regard the STM system may include one or more additional controllers or actuators to facilitate coarse movement of the tip in the x y and or z directions. Further in some implementations the scanning tunnelling microscope system includes one or more controllers or actuators for moving the sample in the x y and or z directions relative to the tip . While any permutation of motion control may be used in some instances the scanning tunnelling microscope system utilizes one of the following arrangements 1 the sample is stationary and the tip does all of the coarse and fine movements relative to the sample 2 the tip is stationary and the sample does all the coarse and fine movements relative to the tip or 3 the tip does all of the fine movements and the sample does all of the coarse movements. Further it is understood that the particular combination of coarse and fine motion control may be applied globally i.e. to all directions of movement or to a specific direction or directions e.g. x y and or z directions . Accordingly it is understood that the scanning tunnelling microscope system may utilize any one or a combination of these motion control options in implementing the motion control features discussed herein below.

In some instances the scanning tunnelling microscope system includes one or more encoders to track movement of the tip . For example in some implementations encoders with an accuracy of one micrometer or better and preferably less than 100 nm are utilized to track coarse motion in the x and y directions. An encoder is utilized to track the z direction motion in some instances to reduce the amount of time required to position the tip in close proximity to the sample . In some instances the closed loop position control described herein with respect to the fine motion control is not utilized and or turned off when coarse movements are being made. Fine motion encoders are also utilized in some instances. To this end x y and or z direction fine motion encoders with an accuracy 1 nm or less and preferably less than 100 pm are utilized in some instances. The information from the fine motion encoder s can be utilized instead of or in addition to the current feedback loop utilized for assessment of z direction control and or the lattice structure fiducial grid utilized for assessment of x y direction control as described below. As described below in some instances the automated patterning processes of the present disclosure utilize an active feedback loop and or well calibrated model corrections to ensure that the tip position in the x y direction is accurate to approximately 0.1 nm.

The control unit is configured to receive signals from a tunneling current amplifier over communication lines and . In the illustrated embodiment the amplifier is represented as a two stage amplifier having a high gain output along communication line and a low gain output along communication line . The amplifier is electrically coupled to the tip by line . In some instances the control unit utilizes the measured tunnel current from the tip and or other input s to control the voltages applied to the electrodes . Additional aspects of the manner in which the control unit controls the application of voltages to the electrodes and corresponding movement of the tip relative to the sample will be discussed in greater detail below. The control unit is in communication with a data processing and display system that is configured to process the data received from tip and generate a corresponding image of the sample .

Because the tip is positioned above the surface of the sample in a precisely controlled manner at least the portion of the system associated with tip must be isolated from any external vibration in order to prevent vibrations from harming the imaging resolution and to prevent any perturbations that might cause the tip to collide with the surface. Vibration isolation is required to facilitate maintaining approximately 0.1 nm positioning control. Fortunately vibration isolation technology is available that will suffice for this purpose. For example some implementations of the present disclosure suspend the system by springs and dissipate vibrations using eddy current damping. However any suitable vibration isolation techniques may be utilized.

In some instances the STM computer control is split into 2 tiers. The lower level tier is a Digital Signal Processor DSP or other high speed computational device working in real time. The DSP takes care of all the time sensitive operations. A generic Central Processing Unit CPU with a real time operating system is utilized in place of the two tiered system in some implementations. Some operations like tip control loop are performed in real time because of a desire to get fast response times. For other operations like tip movement and data collections the timing accuracy is the important factor. The upper tier is a desktop PC taking care of less time critical tasks such as image manipulation and user interface interactions. The upper tier has several modules that can be executed on different machines creating a multi tier set up. For example it is useful to put the module that communicates with the DSP on dedicated hardware that communicates faster with the DSP reducing the jitter due to communication latencies.

The DSP code is designed to get very basic instructions from the higher tier yet do sophisticated operations such as drift and creep corrections. This design provides the necessary control over the STM while keeping the DSP code simple enough to keep up with the stringent time requirements for atomically precise operations. In the upper tier complex operations such as scanning sample recognition and lithography operation are highly abstracted. This allows scripts that fully automate the operation of the STM to be written. With such scripts the STM can operate unattended for hours or days creating complicated patterns over multiple scan fields and even three dimensional structures that require multiple lithography and dosing operations.

Referring now to shown therein is a graph illustrating the adverse position effects as a result of creep within an STM system and a graph illustrating the position correcting effects of implementing a creep correction algorithm according to the present disclosure. In this regard as shown in graph if the tip of the STM system is driven in accordance with a desired position profile the actual position of the tip has a tendency to lag the desired position as a result of creep and hysteresis of the STM system. This is because the piezoelectric actuators controlling the tip position do not respond immediately to voltage changes instead the piezoelectric actuators respond to voltage changes with a temporal decay to the error. One way to overcome this creep effect is to slow down the process to allow the tip position to overcome the temporal decay effect. However this has a negative effect on the efficiency of the system that also increases drift issues. Accordingly slowing down the process is not a viable solution for implementing a robust automated patterning process with a STM system.

Standard commercial STM systems do not include creep correction because the resulting image distortions are tolerable for most scientific imaging purposes the imaging process can be slowed to minimize the effects of creep and or the image can be post processed to correct the image distortions. Again in the context of the present disclosure where the STM system is utilized to form atomically precise patterns through depassivation such solutions are not viable. For example the position effects resulting from creep and hysteresis of the STM system can introduce unwanted errors into the pattern. As the atoms or molecules are depassivated based on the position of the tip these creep effects can destroy the intended atomic precision of the pattern and cannot be corrected by image processing as the depassivation is a physical change in the sample. Further since information from the scanned image of the sample is utilized in some instances to determine where to position the tip and perform the depassivation process it is very difficult to map the actual position of elements in the image to the real surface without taking into account creep effects since the amount of creep is dependent upon the history of tip movements. Therefore implementations of the STM system according to the present disclosure include a creep correction function.

In some instances the creep behavior of the tip is modeled. The model of the creep behavior is then utilized in real time to correct the creep effects by overshooting the applied tip movements such that the actual tip movement follows the desired path. For example graph shows an applied tip position that overcomes the creep effects of the system such that the tip tracks along the desired tip position path. More specifically as shown the applied tip position significantly overshoots the desired tip position at the transitions between tip positions to account for the creep effects. In some instances the same software that controls the tip position also applies the creep correction. As a result the software controlling the tip position has the entire tip motion history available to take into consideration when correcting the creep effects.

In some instances creep is modeled as a sum of exponential decays as follows Exp where Pis the actual position of the tip Ris the ratios of each exponent and Tis the decay time constant of the corresponding exponent. In some implementations R 1 Ris utilized to represent the ratio of the tip movement that responds instantly to voltage changes. It is understood that this approach is not necessarily an intrinsic description of the creep effects and that more complicated models can more accurately model the creep effect. However the described model provides a good approximation and allows for fast real time implementation of creep correction which is particularly useful for the depassivation lithography procedures of the present disclosure.

Accordingly the real time correction is determined as follows in some instances where Pis the calculated position of the tip based on the creep model and Pis the applied position which is the applied position that will correct for the creep effects. As a result these positions are updated as follows 

The precision of the creep correction is mostly dependent on the accuracy of the creep parameters Rand T. Accordingly in some instances the creep correction algorithm fits both the time constants and the ratios. However in other instances the creep correction algorithm selects arbitrary time constants and fits only the ratios. This approach has an advantage in situations where there are no intrinsic time constants to the creep. In such situations the technique that fits both time constants and ratios would not necessarily converge while the technique that only fits ratios can choose the range and separation of the time constants in a manner that maximizes the precision for a given computation load. For example applying exponential spacing e.g. T 25 s T 5 s T 1 s T 200 ms T 40 ms provides good results in some implementations. Other implementations such as a linear progression of time constants e.g. T 1s T 2s T 3s may be applied with varying success depending upon the mechanical system in use.

Since the tip or sample physically scans another way of performing creep and hysteresis correction is closed loop positioning. For effective use in the context of atomically precise depassivation lithography with a STM system the resolution of the closed loop positioning system needs to be less than the tip positioning tolerance that maintains atomic precision. In the case of H depassivation of Si 100 2 1 surfaces where a pixel is defined by 2 dimers along a dimer row that tolerance is 0.15 nm. There are a number of displacement sensors that can provide the required sensitivity at this resolution. For example displacement sensors with 0.15 nm or better resolution include interferometers e.g. SIOS Me technik GmbH sells a Nanopositioning and Nanomeasuring Machine Model NMM 1 with specified 100 pm resolution capacitive sensors e.g. Physik Instrumente PI GmbH Co. KG. sells a capacitive sensor Model D 015 that specifies resolution down to 10 pm Fabry Perot cavities See e.g. T. R. Schibli et al. Displacement Metrology with Sub pm Resolution in Air Based on a fs Comb Wavelength Synthesizer Optics Express Vol. 14 Issue 13 pp. 5984 5993 2006 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and other displacement sensors such as piezoelectric sensors. Because the scan range of a STM system is typically 

Similar to creep there is always some relative drift movement between the sample and the tip of the STM system that creates a positioning error. Drift can be due to thermal expansion slow relaxation time of physical tensions in the piezoelectric actuators and or other parts of the system. While the scanner hardware of the STM system is designed to minimize this drift to facilitate formation of atomically precise structure using the depassivation lithography techniques of the present disclosure some embodiments correct for the drift effects in the software of the system. Like creep correction drift correction is not usually included in standard STM systems.

In some implementations drift correction is maintained by subsequent scanning of the same area of the sample. In this regard the two scans are correlated to find their relative displacement. Sample impurities fiducial markers step edges and or other identifiable feature s of the sample are utilized to determine the relative displacement between the scans. Generally any scanning of the sample including both imaging mode and depassivation mode can be used as feedback information to facilitate drift correction. In some instances the displacement information between scans is used in two manners. First the position of the tip of the STM system is adjusted to compensate for the displacement. This adjustment maintains the absolute reference to the surface lattice of the sample and helps to ensure that even a long sequence of scans will stay in the same position on the sample. Second the velocity of the drift is calculated from the relative displacement. Then a matching velocity is applied to the tip motion. This counteraction of the drift velocity reduces the amount of drift between scans by assuming that the drift velocity is consistent.

In some implementations drift correction is implemented as described in J. N. Randall et al. Atomic precision lithography on Si J. Vac. Sci. Technol. B 27 6 p.2764 November December 2009 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

An unfortunately common occurrence in the operation of STM systems is an encounter between the tip and the sample that changes the structure of the tip. This change to the structure of the tip often results in changes to the way the tip images. These changes in tip structure can be corrected in some instances by further modifying the tip shape e.g. by intentionally imparting additional tip to sample encounters until the tip returns to a useful condition for imaging. However these changes to the structure of the tip pose a much larger problem for the depassivation lithography processes of the present disclosure that are more sensitive to tip changes than imaging processes and that rely upon a repeatable depassivation process. Further any time spent repairing or attempting to repair the tip is unproductive time that is to be avoided in an automated patterning procedure.

The cause of these encounters between the tip and the sample is typically a perturbation to the closed loop system that adjusts the tip height to maintain a set point current. In standard commercial STM systems this control system is generally a proportional integral derivative PID controller with the differential coefficient set to zero coupled to the mechanical STM described above. When the set point current is properly maintained the tip is nominally maintained at about 1 nm above the sample surface. The majority of the time the control loop makes the appropriate adjustments to tip height as the tip is scanned across the sample surface such that the topography of the sample surface is recorded and the tip is not modified. However when occasionally faced with a significantly large perturbation the control loop in an attempt to regain the set point current will drive the tip too close to the surface or the tip will react too slowly to a perturbation and the tip will have a close encounter with where fields and currents both increase or crash into the sample. Due to the small size of the tip these encounters with the sample surface often result in modifications to the shape of the tip. For example the modifications can be anything from a very subtle rearrangement of atoms near the end of the tip to spectacular crashes that dramatically alter the tip e.g. creating loops or turns in the tip structure . The perturbations that cause the tip to contact the sample can come from various sources including without limitation external vibrations spikes in electrical noise a scan speed combined with a relatively large topographical feature that the control system does not have the bandwidth to respond to changes in the tip bias changes in set point current and or combinations of these factors.

In the context of hydrogen depassivation lithography on a Si 100 surface proper sample preparation minimizes the number of significant surface topographical features. However the depassivation lithography process itself significantly modifies the bias and current set point as the STM system switches between an imaging mode and the various lithography modes. These changes to the bias and current set point can cause significant perturbations to the tip height control loop. Several approaches are potentially available to minimize this perturbation. Simply turning off the feedback loop changing the settings and then turning the feedback loop back on is one approach. However using such an approach can still present a perturbation to the control system when the feedback loop is turned back on and the tip is not in the correct position for the new settings. Changing the bias and or current set point slowly would seem to be another way to avoid a major perturbation but such an approach takes additional time and can lead to a tip crash if changing slowly through a zero bias with a non zero current. One technique for making this transition through a zero bias is to utilize a step function through zero which may or may not lead to a significant perturbation.

In another implementation the set point current values are ramped along a linear path from the old set point to the new set point followed or preceded by a linear ramp from the old bias value to the new bias value. The expectation in such implementations is that the feedback loop will be able to keep up with the linear changes. A similar approach is to map out the tip height as a function of the bias and current parameter space. From this information a path e.g. either linear or non linear from the old bias and set point to the new bias and set point can be mapped through the parameter space in a manner that results in a controlled and expected change in tip height from the old conditions to the new conditions.

Another problem for the tip control feedback loop arises when some perturbation excites a resonance in the STM system. Such resonances can lead to non linear behaviors that result in poor control of the tip position and therefore possible crashes into the sample. Accordingly in some instances a higher ordered control system that takes into consideration the resonances in the scanning system is utilized. Similarly in some instances a scanner that has well behaved resonances e.g. stable in frequency is utilized such that the control system can take such behavior into consideration in controlling the tip position. In some instances the tip control system is further improved by implementing creep correction as discussed above in the direction of the z axis.

Further in some embodiments the control algorithm is implemented such that the highest priority of the control algorithm is to avoid interactions between the tip and the sample so that other control parameters e.g. maintaining a constant tip sample current are secondary to protecting the tip. A control loop is always responding to errors. Moving the tip in response to larger errors e.g. pulling the tip away in order to protect the tip degrades the imaging quality of the STM. However in some implementations the current signal and the topographical signal are captured. Since the current to distance relationship is known the current signal can be used to mitigate the topographical errors due to the protective control system.

Another strategy is to use multiple inputs as part of the tip protection system. The tunneling current is the only input to standard STM control systems trying to maintain a static set point current. For a standard system with a single tunneling current preamp there is a tradeoff between gain and bandwidth. Often the desirable gain for imaging operations leads to a relatively low bandwidth diminishing the opportunity to respond fast enough to prevent crashes. Separate preamps which can be difficult to implement in some instances because it requires dividing the small tunneling current are utilized in some instances. Further in some embodiments a preamp with dual outputs such as shown in e.g. one high bandwidth lower gain output and one standard high gain lower bandwidth output for imaging is utilized. The higher bandwidth signal is used as the input to the tip protection function and the higher gain input is used to maintain the set point current. Shown in other inputs that can be used for the tip protect function are the sample bias voltage the piezo bias voltages and or an accelerometer. Such inputs are principally looking for anomalous behavior e.g. unintended voltage spikes or mechanical perturbations that could be reacted to before they create a tip crash. Further in some instances a second output of the tip control system controls a separate fast acting actuator that is used to quickly increase the tip to sample distance to avoid a crash.

By utilizing one or more of the tip control techniques described above the distance between the tip and the surface is stabilized preventing unwanted damage to the tip. In some implementations the tip position is monitored with a feedback loop in order to control the relative position of the tip to within a few pm. This precise control of the tip position that prevents damage to the tip can also facilitate improved depassivation processes e.g. allowing removal of adjacent hydrogen atoms from a silicon surface in a single pass with a relatively low bias voltage by positioning the tip equally between the hydrogen atoms .

Referring now to shown therein is a diagrammatic schematic top view of a silicon lattice structure sample according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In the surface Si atoms are shown as the larger lighter circles paired together into dimers and the H atoms are smaller darker circles that sometimes are and sometimes are not attached to the Si atoms. In the illustrated embodiment the sample is a Si 100 surface partially passivated with hydrogen atoms. In some implementations a silicon wafer is obtained from a vendor such as University Semiconductor and prepared using known surface preparation techniques See e.g. Miki K. et al. Surface preparation of Si substrates for epitaxial growth Surface Science 406 312 327 1998 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety . Such surface preparation techniques when performed on a Si 100 wafer produce a 2 1 reconstructed hydrogen terminated surface as shown. An ideal cleaved Si 001 surface would have two dangling bonds per surface atom. To minimize surface energy the silicon reconstructs by distorting the surface atoms to form pairs called dimers each with one dangling bond. Each dimer row and in consists of a plurality of dimers oriented in a common direction. For example dimer row includes dimers aligned in a vertical direction as depicted in . The resulting dimers can be bonded with two hydrogen atoms a single hydrogen atom or no hydrogen atoms which bond to the one remaining dangling bond on each dimer atom. For example the sample includes an area where all of the dimers are bonded to no hydrogen atoms and an area where all of the dimers are bonded to a single hydrogen atom. The remaining portions of the sample have dimers bonded to two hydrogen atoms. The dimer rows and have a pitch between dimers of 0.384 nm and a spacing between dimer rows of 0.768 nm. The atoms forming the dimer pairs have a spacing that is nominally 0.3 nm instead of the usual 0.384 nm spacing of the silicon atoms. The dimer rows are a strong structural feature and form the natural choice for one dimension of a lithography pixel since the low bias mode of H depassivation lithography described later in this document has a line width of 1 dimer row. In some embodiments of the invention a pixel in the pattern to be written could be a square writing pixel which is 2 dimers within a single dimer row forming a square 0.768 nm across.

Even for wafers cut with very low miscut angles the size of a single atomically flat terrace i.e. any one of terraces and shown in is usually only several tens or hundreds of nanometers wide. Significantly larger atomic terraces may be formed by deliberately creating troughs or walls in the silicon substrate and using the high surface mobility of the silicon atoms at elevated temperatures as described by Fuechsle Martin et al. J. Vac. Sci. Technol. B 25 2562 2567 2007 and Li K. et al. Controlled Formation of Atomic Step Morphology on Micropatterned Si 100 J. Vac. Sci. Technol. B 29 041806 2011 each hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Step edges i.e. the transitions between terraces and other surface features such as dimer vacancies di hydride surface Si atoms and isolated dangling bonds that are often found on even well prepared surfaces can be addressed utilizing techniques of the present disclosure described below such that these surface anomalies do not create significant problems for the depassivation lithography patterning process. A dimer vacancy is where the two Si atoms comprising one dimer are missing. In some instances a properly prepared surface has few dimer vacancies making any such vacancies possible to avoid when determining the pattern layout. Even if a pattern must extend across a dimer vacancy the result is a 0.135 nm vertical displacement of the deposited atom which is tolerable in many instances. If desired dimer vacancies can be eliminated by filling them in using patterned Si Atomic Layer Epitaxy ALE See e.g. J H G Owen et.al. JVSTB 29 6 F201 November December 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety . Dihydrides where two H atoms are bonded to a single surface Si atom and therefore a dimer is not formed are not a problem for hydrogen depassivation as both hydrogen atoms can be removed from the silicon atom and they have also been established as an effective resist. On well prepared hydrogen passivated Si 100 2 1 surfaces dangling bonds exist on only a small percentage of Si atoms and the vast majority of dangling bonds are isolated dangling bonds. Since many species do not adsorb onto an isolated dangling bond isolated dangling bonds are of little or no consequence to the patterning process. However as discussed below isolated dangling bonds may be used as fiducial markers to guide positioning of the tip during the patterning process.

While in principle it is possible to create single atomic terraces that contain no step edges upon which all patterning can be done in reality there will inevitably be instances where it is necessary to pattern over an area that contained one or more atomic step edges. In Si 100 2 1 surfaces not only do the surface reconstructed dimer rows change direction but because of the diamond crystal structure of silicon there is also a shift in the atom coordinate system that must be accounted for. The crystal lattice of silicon and germanium is a diamond lattice. Therefore the bonding direction and position of the surface atoms repeats only every 4 atomic layers.

In as well as a number of other figures in this disclosure that represent a Si 100 2 1 surface we will represent dimers pairs of Si atoms with H adsorbed as ovals. Occasionally at the end of dimer rows at a B type rebonded step edge explained below we will represent single surface atoms as circles. As shown in for a sample having an upper terrace and a lower terrace the dimer rows and of the upper terrace extend perpendicular to the dimer rows and of the lower terrace . Further the dimer rows and of the upper terrace are offset with respect to the dimer rows and of the lower terrace . In this regard if each terrace is considered to be a pixel grid defined by a plurality of 2 dimer pixels i.e. each pixel is comprised of 2 dimers then as shown the 2 dimer pixels of the lower terrace are offset by pixel dimer in the direction parallel to the dimer rows and of the upper terrace . Generally as illustrated in there are two types of step edges. An A type step edge runs parallel to the dimer rows and of the upper terrace and B type step edges and run parallel to the dimer rows and of the lower terrace . There are two possible types of B type step edge. The rebonded B type step edge is found in large majority on a well prepared sample while the non rebonded B type step edge is mainly found after epitaxial growth of Si particularly growth using disilane or other gas sources. The two types of B type step edge inevitably introduce a one dimer or pixel shift of the step edge .

The precision and accuracy of the depassivation lithography processes of the present disclosure are facilitated in some respects by the ability to image and align to the crystal lattice structure. To this end in some implementations the image of the crystalline surface as observed with a STM is utilized as the global address grid for pattern generation. The automated recognition of the address grid based on the image of the surface is accomplished with real space image analysis Fourier analysis and or combinations thereof. In order to be suitable for manufacturing implementations the recognition of the lattice structure from the image should be performed in a timeframe that is significantly less than the time required to expose the portion of the pattern that is to be written before re registration to the lattice is required. It is also desirable in order to account for image distortions drift creep and or other factors that adversely affect imaging utilizing a STM.

Referring now to shown therein is an image of a silicon lattice structure sample as imaged by a STM overlaid with a lattice structure grid according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. As shown the grid is indicated by a plurality of crosshairs that are aligned with the dimers of the silicon lattice structure. With the grid aligned with the dimers of the silicon lattice structure a desired depassivation pattern can be written to the sample based on the grid. The following description will discuss aspects of correlating the grid to the lattice structure for use in the depassivation process.

As an initial step the physical characteristics of the sample surface are determined from the image s generated by the STM system. In this regard in some implementations there are three general steps to identifying the physical characteristics of the surface 1 identifying the lattice structure 2 identifying terraces and step edges and 3 identifying the content of each unit cell.

In some implementations a Fourier transform of the two dimensional scanned image is utilized to identify the global lattice structure. For example shows an image which is the absolute value of the Fourier Transform of the silicon lattice structure of . In the case of a Si 100 surface the dimer row is the most prominent periodic feature. By searching for a peak in the absolute value of the Fourier Transform nearest the expected dimer row frequency the dimer rows are identified. Likewise by searching for a perpendicular peak that would appear if there are step edges in the image the presence of any transitions between terraces of the sample can be identified. In some instances the image is analyzed for a peak in the second harmonic of the expected dimer row frequency which can provide additional information about the location of the dimers. In some instances higher harmonics are also searched for in the image. In this regard the presence or lack thereof of the higher harmonics provides an indication of the quality of the image. From the position of the peaks the pitch and angle of the dimer rows are determined. The complex phase at the peaks gives the position of the dimer rows and dimers in real space. The geometry involved in translating image coordinates to lattice coordinates is shown in .

More specifically shows a schematic of an image of a silicon lattice structure sample as imaged by a STM overlaid with a grid . The grid is defined by a series of grid lines and a series of grid lines . As shown grid lines extend at an angle which can be approximately 90 degrees to grid lines and are aligned with the underlying lattice structure of the sample. In the illustrated embodiment the grid lines extend parallel to the dimer rows of the sample and grid lines extend parallel to the dimers. More specifically in the illustrated embodiment a single grid square defined by the area between a pair of adjacent grid lines and a pair of adjacent grid lines encompasses a pair of dimers of the underlying lattice structure e.g. for the illustrated Si 100 surface the grid square encompasses four silicon atoms grouped into two pairs each pair of silicon atoms defining a dimer . In some implementations each grid square defines a pixel that will be utilized to plot a desired design pattern to the sample. It is understood that different size grid squares and or pixels are utilized in other implementations. However for the sake of clarity in explanation the following description will assume that the patterns are designed with pixels corresponding to grid lines of grid . Each pixel is a square on the actual surface but in the image of these pixels appear generally as parallelograms due to scanning artifacts.

As noted above the geometry calculations utilized to translate image coordinates to corresponding lattice grid coordinates are shown in . In that regard the following variable definitions are utilized 

Due to artifacts associated with the STM system it should be noted that a wand ware not necessarily equal and b 180 is not necessarily 90 .

The Fourier analysis cannot handle non linear distortions in the image. Therefore in some instances creep correction is utilized to account for such non linear distortions in the STM image before performing the Fourier analysis. However the Fourier analysis can handle linear distortion such as linear scaling of the dimer dimensions and an apparent non orthogonality between dimer rows. Any linear scaling and or non orthogonality between dimer rows are utilized in some implementations to accurately calibrate the STM system. Once calibrated the search for peaks in the Fourier space can be restricted based on this information thereby reducing the chances of finding false positives of the presence of dimers. Further as shown above in the context of the phase of the dimer rows is affected by atomic step edges in the crystal surface. In that regard a shift of or of a dimer row width can occur at step edges between terraces. Methods for dealing with these shifts while maintaining registration to the underlying lattice structure and fiducial markers are discussed below.

By associating the desired lithography patterns with the 2 dimer pixels defined by the grid the desired patterns are directly correlated to the underlying lattice structure in the same manner as the grid. As described below this provides the ability to create atomically precise structures utilizing a robust automated process. In the two dimer four atom pixel configuration in the context of a Si 100 surface a square pixel that is sub nm in dimension is provided. As there are zero to four hydrogen atoms present per pixel there can be different definitions as to what constitutes an exposed depassivated or an unexposed passivated pixel. In the most stringent case an unexposed passivated pixel will have all four of its passivating hydrogen atoms present and an exposed depassivated pixel will have all four hydrogen atoms removed. Any pixel with one two or three hydrogen atoms is partially exposed.

Depending on the application and the number of hydrogen atoms present these pixels may be treated as exposed depassivated unexposed passivated or partially exposed. In this regard there are cases where the application the hydrogen depassivation lithography will enable less stringent definitions of what constitutes an unexposed passivated pixel. For instance when using the hydrogen resist to define where phosphorous is to be deposited on a silicon surface a single missing hydrogen atom will not allow a phosphorous atom to be deposited. Even adjacent missing hydrogen atoms on adjacent pixels do not allow phosphorous to be deposited. Accordingly in this and other applications of hydrogen depassivation lithography an unexposed pixel includes pixels with either three or four hydrogen atoms present. Similarly there are applications where an exposed pixel includes pixels with either one hydrogen atom or zero hydrogen atoms. Generally the definition of what constitutes an exposed depassivated and or unexposed passivated pixel can be determined based on the particular application of the depassivation lithography process.

A real space approach to identifying the lattice and relevant surface features is described in the following paragraphs. Collectively show aspects of identifying a lattice structure of a sample according to embodiments of the present disclosure. It is understood that the described steps of identifying the lattice structure are exemplary in nature and that one or more of the steps may be omitted one or more additional steps may be added and or the order of the steps may be changed without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Further one skilled in the art will recognize that there are alternative ways or manners of identifying the lattice structure from the image s of the STM system and such alternative techniques are included within the scope of the present disclosure. Generally speaking any type of image processing and or data analysis now known or developed in the future may be utilized to identify the lattice structure of the sample for use with the depassivation lithography processes of the present disclosure.

Referring initially to shown therein is an image of a silicon lattice structure sample having two terraces generated by a STM system according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. As shown the sample includes an upper terrace and a lower terrace . In accordance with the silicon lattice structure the dimer rows of the upper terrace extend perpendicular to the dimer rows of the lower terrace . In the illustrated embodiment the dimer rows of the upper terrace extend in a generally horizontal direction as viewed in while the dimer rows of the lower terrace extend in a generally vertical direction as viewed in . In some instances the image of the sample is linearly fit to remove any image tilt. In this regard if the sample includes multiple terraces then the linear fit is applied to each terrace independently. In some implementations the linear fit is a least squares plane fit and that is performed to each terrace separately in order to prevent tilt. However in other instances an algorithm is applied to the entire surface in parallel. shows an image of the silicon lattice structure sample after spatial filtering to remove noise and a plane fit of the image of according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In that regard illustrates a global plane fit so the separate terraces are not terribly flat. The modeling of dimer rows See is used to determine which part of the image is on which terrace. Then a least squares plane fit is used to flatten un tilt the larger terrace. Since the terraces are parallel planarizing one effectively planarizes both.

Referring now to shown therein is a perspective view of a three dimensional model of a silicon lattice structure along with a diagrammatic partial cross sectional side schematic of the silicon lattice structure according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The structure is a model of a segment of a dimer row extended partially to the adjacent dimer rows . The model is specific to the lattice structure of the sample but with minor adaptation to can be applied to other sample types. In this regard Si 100 2 1 and many other crystal surfaces have dominant features that could be modeled in a similar fashion. This model is adapted to the image with respect to angle and pitch as determined by FFT . With sufficient calibration and consistent imaging only the angle need be determined by FFT though adaptability to some imaging features is useful in some instances. For example if the imaging resolution is good enough to see dimers as well as dimer rows determined by FFT then the dimer corrugation can be added to the dimer row model.

Referring now to an image is the result of the summation of an STM image with the image shown in the inset that has been placed where there is a good correlation with the model . The inset image has white pixels aligned with the dimer row troughs of a model similar to the model . Any placements of these image lines are suppressed in the portion of the image that has been identified as the upper terrace in . As can be seen in there is excellent correlation between the dimer row troughs and the white pixels from the placed image . Based on the alignment of the model to the sample vertical grid lines of the detected lattice structure can be associated with the image. For example shows an image of the sample with a plurality of vertical grid lines overlaid. In some instances the placement of lines is determined by placing a global grid of lines at the pitch and angle suggested by the FFT analysis and then making minor corrections adjustments to maximize the overlay with the white pixels in . Alternatively the positions and angles of the individual grid lines can have minor corrections adjustments to maximize overlay with the white pixels in . A similar approach is taken to associate horizontal grid lines with the image of the sample . For example shows an image of the sample with a plurality of horizontal grid lines of the detected lattice structure overlaid. shows an image of the silicon lattice structure sample with both vertical grid lines and horizontal grid lines of the detected lattice structure overlaid.

With the grid lines and associated with the image the relative positions of the silicon atoms within each pixel defined by the grid lines and can be determined. For example shows a schematic of a portion of the lower terrace of the silicon lattice structure sample including the geometrical relationship of the grid lines to the silicon atoms of the dimer rows of the lower terrace of the sample . Similarly shows a schematic of a portion of the upper terrace of the silicon lattice structure sample including the geometrical relationship of the grid lines to the silicon atoms of the dimer rows of the upper terrace of the sample . The shift in the expected atomic position is the expected half dimer shift pointed out in . This shows the process working for two atomic terraces. The process can be extended to additional layers where there would be up to four different atom positions within the global grid lines. In other embodiments the positions of the dimers within the grid lines would remain the same for each terrace and the grid lines would be adjusted for each terrace independently by making dimer shifts in either a horizontal or vertical direction.

With the overall lattice structure determined and the different terraces identified the properties of individual dimers can be evaluated. For example a threshold analysis can determine whether an atom is passivated or depassivated. Simply looking at the height of the STM image at the precise location expected for the atom will reveal passivation or depassivation with the depassivated locations appearing up to 0.15 nm taller than the background. For example if the expected position of an atom as identified by the analysis above for a particular terrace where a least squares plane fit drives the average value height of the terrace to zero then any position below 0.04 nm can be considered a vacancy any position from 0.04 nm to 0.07 nm can be considered an H passivated atom and any position above 0.07 nm can be considered a dangling bond or some other surface contamination. More elaborate analysis such as template matching can provide additional information regarding the properties of a dimer. For example template matching can also help identify partially passivated dimers including determining which of the dimer s bonds has been depassivated.

Referring now to shown therein is a virtual representation of the silicon lattice structure . In this regard the virtual representation includes terraces and that correspond to terraces and respectively. Further as shown the virtual representation includes features representative of individual dimers across the sample including dangling bonds and missing dimers. Using this virtual representation a desired pattern layout can be applied to the sample in a manner that takes into account the lattice structure terraces and properties of individual dimers to effectuate the most effective positioning of the pattern layout on the sample .

The direction and location of the dimer rows on each terrace are very important as the relative position on the tip with respect to the dimer rows affects the efficiency of the H atom depassivation process. The edges of each terrace is defined by the step edges and thus the location and type of step edges i.e. A or B type and single or double height are also important. Different surface sampling techniques which aim to provide the required information but without taking a complete scan of the whole area have been developed within this invention to allow for much faster exploration of the surface than a regular high precision STM scan of the surface.

One embodiment of a surface sampling technique is described in . shows an STM image of a section of the Si 001 surface containing 6 different terraces and with the dimer rows changing direction at each step edge. The STM tip moves across the surface in a series of single scan lines with much lower density than a typical STM scan as indicated in . As it moves across the surface the tip will detect sudden changes in average height as a step edge in . In some cases these apparent step edges would in fact be a set of missing dimers. Therefore for each apparent step edge the tip would pause its scanning and perform a small detailed scan over a limited area centered on the apparent step edge in . The purpose of the small scan is to determine the precise location of the step edge its type i.e. A type or B type and the direction of the dimer rows of the terraces above and below the step. For a single step the system will expect there to be a 90 rotation of the dimer rows from the top to the bottom of the step. For a double step there will be no rotation in the dimer row direction but there will be a shift in the dimer row position and a much greater change in height.

If the position of the step edges is determined along each scan line the approximate course of the step edge across the whole surface can be interpolated. In some cases more detailed knowledge of the step edge position is required e.g. if a write element may cross the step edge. In such cases the tip can perform a dithered scan perpendicular to the step edge moving along the step edge across the whole scan field. The center of the dithered scan would be adjusted to maintain the step edge in the middle of the scan and the size of the dither would depend upon the roughness of the step edge. Thus the step edge position is completely determined in .

Either in addition to this or in place of this scanning process the tip may make a higher resolution prescan of the location of each write element to determine if the write element is contained within one terrace as in in or crosses a step edge as in in . Depending on the result of this pre scan the tip will then assign local pixel positions tip vectors for the write field or even adjusting the position of the whole Write Element when necessary as described below.

Finally as the dimer row direction should be constant across a whole terrace and each single step is known to cause a 90 rotation in the direction of the dimer rows the system can use the knowledge of the local dimer row direction to determine if any step edges have not been detected by the initial pre scan. In such a case the tip would perform further pre scans to determine the location of any unidentified step edges.

The present disclosure utilizes the depassivation of a monolayer of atoms or molecules from a crystalline surface to create atomically precise patterns. For the sake of clarity in the embodiments described below hydrogen depassivation from a silicon substrate will be utilized as the example. More specifically the removal of hydrogen atoms from a Si 100 2 1 surface will be described. However it is understood that the present disclosure has application to other surface reconstructions crystal faces crystalline materials and or resist layers. In that regard those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the principles of the present disclosure can be adapted to these other applications by taking into consideration the characteristics of the particular sample.

Depassivation lithography is distinct from any number of atomic and molecular manipulation processes where a scanning probe is used to find atoms or molecules on a surface and push pull or pick and place the atoms or molecules into place to form a pattern. For example techniques are used such as those described in H. J. Lee and W. Ho Science 286 1719 1722 1999 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In the molecular or atomic manipulation method it is required to deposit the species of interest on the surface find a suitable number of these species and move them into place. Such a technique makes it difficult if not impossible to create large and or complex patterns because it is difficult to get the right number of atoms or molecules on the surface. Further such a manipulation method also requires that the tip come into physical contact with the atoms or molecules and the surface which makes tip wear and or other damage to the tip a concern. Depassivation lithography is also distinct from dip pen lithography and other processes that create patterns by depositing material from a tip on a surface.

Referring to shown therein are aspects of depassivation lithography according to aspects of the present disclosure. Referring more specifically to the sample is shown having a crystalline structure made up of a plurality of layers and . Each layer and is a plane of the crystal . A resist layer is formed over the top layer of the crystalline structure. As shown the resist layer is a monolayer of atoms or molecules . Through the application of a bias voltage between the tip and the sample a current is generated between the tip and the sample that excites one or more of the atoms or molecules forming the resist layer . If the atom or molecule is sufficiently excited by the current then the bond between the atom or molecule of the resist layer and the associated atom or molecule of layer will be broken and the released atom or molecule will desorb into the vacuum of the STM system. In the illustrated embodiment of the current is associated with a low bias voltage such that a single atom or molecule is removed from the resist layer . However in other embodiments of the present disclosure a high bias voltage is utilized to remove more than one atom or molecule from the resist layer at a time. For example in the illustrated embodiment of a current is generated between the tip and the sample based on high bias voltage such that a plurality of atoms or molecules are removed from the resist layer as shown. provides a graph illustrating the energy in the Si H stretch on Si 100 as a function of bond distance where the limit of large bond distance indicates depassivation. The accepted model for how excitation energy is delivered from tip to sample in order to break the bond between silicon and hydrogen is shown for both the atomically precise and field emission modes.

Further the depassivation process is not restricted to hydrogen. Electron stimulated desorption with an STM from a Si surface has been demonstrated with a number of other species including deuterium Cl benzene chlorobenzene NO and cyclopentene. Since electron stimulated desorption is a fairly general process one skilled in the art can see that many other possibilities exist. Similarly the Si 100 surface is not the only crystal surface that the present invention may be applied to. STM based hydrogen desorption from Si 111 Ge 100 and C 100 have all been reported. While STM depassivation lithography is usually done at positive sample biases it is also possible to depassivate with negative sample bias.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure during depassivation lithography the sample is positive with respect to the tip so that electrons flow from the tip to the sample. In this regard while hydrogen depassivation has been reported with a negative sample bias the efficiency of the process is even worse than that of a positive sample bias and the mechanism of depassivation in this context is not well understood. On the other hand the low efficiency of lithography at low negative sample biases permits effective imaging without imparting depassivation. Accordingly in some implementations of the present disclosure the depassivation lithography patterning is performed with a positive sample bias while imaging is performed with either a positive or negative sample bias.

At lower biases for instance below approximately 7V the flow of electrons is primarily tunneling from the tip to the sample and the efficiency of hydrogen removal is dependent on the current between the tip and sample which is suggestive of a multi electron process. While there is currently some controversy in the literature as to whether this is a multi electron process it is well established that the depassivation efficiency is strongly dependent on the bias. For example the depassivation efficiency is very low at 2V and increases dramatically for a given current up to approximately 7V. At these low voltages 1 5V the tip is very close to the surface reducing the interaction volume approaches the atomic scale allowing atomic precision depassivation lithography.

In some implementations of hydrogen depassivation from a Si 100 surface an atomically precise low bias exposure mode used a 4V sample bias a 4 nA current and a scan speed of 10 nm s See e.g. Shi Chen et.al. Patterning of sub 1 nm dangling bond lines with atomic precision alignment on H Si 100 surface at room temperature . 2012 Jul. 11 23 27 275301 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety . In use this exposure mode resulted in a line width of 0.78 nm the width of a single dimer row with little to no depassivation outside of this line width when the tip was moved down the middle 0.15 nm of a dimer row. An area where the lithography has removed all or substantially all 95 of the hydrogen atoms is referred to as being fully saturated. For low bias atomically precise modes the exposure regions are expected to be fully saturated with little or no partially saturated adjacent regions. An area where the lithography has removed between 5 and 94 of the hydrogen atoms is referred to as being partially saturated. Finally areas where the lithography has removed less than 5 of the hydrogen is referred to as being unexposed or unsaturated. Other combinations of bias voltages set point currents and scan speeds are used to remove a single row of hydrogen i.e. half the width of a dimer row and or larger line widths i.e. . dimer rows or larger . Lithography parameters for other crystals and resists as well as at extreme temperatures would likely differ from the exemplary case described here.

It has also been observed that there may be a relatively wide range of lithography parameters that yield a single dimer row wide depassivation pattern. For the Si 100 H 2 1 surface the arrangement of atoms on the surface result in a natural boundary for lithography to be confined to a single dimer row atomically precise conditions with robustness both in position as well as in bias current dose. In the exemplary patterning case of Si 100 H a dimer row width may be a convenient pixel size even though single atom lithography has been performed. For other crystal surfaces there may be favored line widths that determine pixel size and write directions but they are not described in detail here.

The alignment of the tip to the silicon lattice structure can be important not only when defining the edges of the pattern features but also can affect the writing process. For example if the tip is within 0.15 nm of the center of a dimer row of a hydrogen passivated Si 100 sample when scanning along the dimer row in a low bias lithography mode then both hydrogen atoms from each dimer are removed as the tip moves along the dimer row. However when the tip is further than 0.15 nm away from the center of the dimer row either only a single hydrogen atom on each dimer or in some cases neither hydrogen atom is removed.

The nature of the electron flow between the tip and sample also changes as the bias increases. At 2V for example the electron flow between tip and sample is dominated by tunneling from the tip to the sample. At higher biases for instance 10V the tip is in a field emission regime e.g. Fowler Nordheim Tunneling where the electrons tunnel from the tip to the vacuum and then accelerate through the vacuum to the sample. One indication of being in the field emission regime is significantly reduced resolution in imaging compared to direct tunneling. In the direct tunneling regime there is an exponential dependence on tunneling current with the distance between the tip and sample that leads to strong confinement of the areas of the tip and sample participating in the current flow. This limited interaction region results in good imaging and patterning resolution. On the other hand in the field emission regime the electrons follow field lines once emitted into the vacuum from the sharp apex of the tip rather than finding the closest part of the sample to the tip. The electrons following the field lines results in a wider area of electron impact on the sample and therefore poorer imaging and patterning resolution. In the present disclosure with respect to hydrogen depassivation modes low bias is considered to be below 7V high bias is considered to be 7V or above. These values are somewhat arbitrary but the 7V is chosen as the dividing point since above 7V the H depassivation efficiency is no longer a strong function of bias and a function of current but becomes a much weaker function of voltage and does not vary with current. The upper range on the high bias is approximately 100V but in some implementations is higher.

Similarly in some instances multiple high bias modes are provided. Typically for high bias modes there is in addition to the fully saturated exposed region an adjacent partially saturated region. It is desirable to minimize the size of the partially saturated region in order to maintain the precision of the depassivation procedure. In this regard by minimizing the size of the partially saturated region the amount of time spent exposing the edges with a low bias mode to create atomically precise edge resolution is reduced. As the bias voltage is increased to increase the depassivation efficiency the tip of the STM system is raised further away from the surface which results in larger saturated and partially saturated regions. For a given high bias e.g. above 7V the depassivation rate i.e. hydrogen atoms removed per unit of time rises linearly with increased current. As the tip height is reduced to create the larger field necessary to generate the increased current the lower tip height reduces the size of both the saturated and partially saturated regions. Accordingly in some instances both the bias and the set point current are increased in order to increase the size of the fully saturated region while minimizing to the extent possible the size of the partially saturated region.

The present inventors have discovered that 1 the hydrogen depassivation efficiency that plateaus in the 7 10V range increases again at around 13V and 2 the depassivation efficiency is about an order of magnitude greater at approximately 30V than it is at 10V. For example shows a graph of the amount a tip must be retracted from the surface to maintain a constant current relative to bias voltage which results in larger spot sizes allowing the scanning time for a large region to be reduced. Due to these properties there is an incentive to use higher biases in the hydrogen depassivation lithography process in order to decrease the amount of time necessary to create a desired pattern. As discussed above with conventional e beam lithography higher currents generally mean larger spot sizes which limits pattern resolution. However with hydrogen depassivation lithography using a STM for a given bias larger currents are obtained by moving the tip closer to the sample. In the low bias regime e.g. 4.5V and below the tip is very close to the sample e.g. 1 nm in some instance and the primary electron transport between the tip and the sample is direct tunneling. If the tip is reasonably sharp then the closer distance produces a higher current with no appreciable increase in the spot size or lithography features. In the high bias regime e.g. 7V and above the tip is positioned considerably farther from the surface i.e. from 1 nm at 7V and 50 pA to 380 nm at 40V and 50 pA as shown in and the tip operates effectively as a field emitter with the emitted electrons diverging at some angle from the apex of the tip. Accordingly in high bias modes the line widths of the resulting hydrogen depassivation can be significantly larger than the low bias modes but will lose some precision.

While there are other methods of exposure such as discrete spot exposures that could be implemented in other embodiments an exposure line produced by a tip scanning over a surface with a given set of exposure conditions bias set point current and scan speed is a common mode of exposing patterns. It is often useful to have different exposure conditions modes for exposing the desired pattern. Two regimes have been identified a Low Bias regime 7V bias. In the 1 4.5V portion of the low bias regime it is possible to get the line width of depassivation to be approximately 0.78 nm or one dimer row on the Si 001 surface under certain conditions a line width of a single atom 0.38 nm on a Si 001 surface and a High Bias or Field Emission regime where the line width is typically much larger than one dimer row.

More specifically in addition to a fully saturated region i.e. area in which all atoms or molecules are depassivated there is a partially saturated region i.e. area where some but not all atoms or molecules are depassivated . For example shows a diagrammatic top view of a line pattern having fully saturated and partially saturated portions according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. More specifically the line pattern includes a fully saturated region where all atoms or molecules are removed by the depassivation line pattern and a partially saturated region where some but not all of the atoms or molecules are removed by the depassivation line pattern. For comparison an atomically precise low bias mode will include only fully saturated region and will not include the partially saturated region . Because of the atomic precision of such a low bias mode only the atoms or molecules that are intended to be removed will be removed by the depassivation process. Accordingly a line pattern generated using such an atomically precise bias mode consists only of fully saturated region .

In conventional e beam lithography the sophisticated optical systems can control the spot size and shape with a variety of adjustments. In depassivation lithography there is a much more limited range of options available to change the effective spot size of the depassivation process. The tip shape especially in high bias modes can affect the spot size. While creating tips with consistent structure is possible through various techniques e.g. FDSS Wolkow etc. there may be some variation in tip structure that makes it desirable in some embodiments to match the scanning speed and pattern to the effective spot size of the STM system. Accordingly in some instances the spot size of the STM system is measured for a particular bias mode or each of multiple bias modes and the scan pattern and speed is adjusted based on the spot size measurement s associated with the bias mode s . Alternatively the bias current and scan speed can be adjusted based on spot size measurements to achieve a specific saturated line width consistent with the desired tip vector path for pattern exposure.

As these low bias and high bias exposure modes will be used to remove atoms or molecules as the tip is moving across the surface of the sample there will inevitably be atoms or molecules that are intended to be removed by the depassivation procedure that are not removed for one reason or another or vice versa. Accordingly in the context of the present disclosure a fully saturated region of a pattern line is the region where at least 95 of the resist layer atoms or molecules have been removed and the partially saturated region of the pattern line is the region surrounding the fully saturated region where between 5 and 94 of the resist layer atoms or molecules have been removed. Accordingly the areas of the sample outside of the pattern lines will typically have less than 5 of the resist layer atoms or molecules removed. These thresholds are somewhat arbitrary and their selection will depend on the processing that follows the lithography process. As mentioned above patterned Si ALE and deposition of P atoms work well with these thresholds as an exposure of less than 5 comprises primarily single dangling bonds where no deposition takes place and 95 removal of H would allow deposition in the intended areas to proceed. For other processes atoms molecules samples etc. more or less stringent thresholds may be appropriate.

Referring to exemplary techniques for calculating these depassivation percentages for the various exposure modes will be discussed. In this regard shows a pixel grid where in the present example each pixel is a pair of adjacent dimers on a dimer row on sample with a line pattern having a fully saturated region and a partially saturated region written thereon. The fully saturated region is the area where at least 95 of the resist layer atoms or molecules are removed for the full line width over a length equal to ten times the line width. In the illustrated embodiment the fully saturated region has a width that is eight pixels wide. In this context the width of the saturated region in terms of pixels is based upon the registration of the pattern to the underlying lattice structure as discussed in other portions of the present disclosure.

The partially saturated region includes sections extending along the length of the fully saturated region above and below in the illustrated embodiment as well as sections extending perpendicular to the fully saturated region at the ends of the fully saturated region left and right ends in the illustrated embodiment . The sections of the partially saturated region extending along the length of the line pattern include the areas where between 5 and 95 of the resist layer atoms or molecules are removed when averaged over a length equal to ten times the fully saturated line width for that exposure mode. In the illustrated embodiment the sections of the partially saturated region extending along the length of the line pattern have a width that is two pixels wide.

The widths of the sections of the partially saturated region at the ends of the line pattern are typically larger than the width of the partially saturated regions extending along the length of the line pattern. For example in some instances the widths of the line end partially saturated regions are larger by approximately half of the fully saturated line width. This is due in some implementations to the approximately circular nature of the electron distribution from the tip in high bias modes. For example in the right end of the line pattern illustrates an exemplary circular profile representative of a potential electron distribution from a tip. In the illustrated embodiment the sections of the partially saturated region extending perpendicular to the line pattern at the ends of the line pattern have a width that is six pixels wide.

The specific definitions and calculations discussed above for defining fully saturated and partially saturated portions of a line pattern in the context of a bias mode are somewhat arbitrary and those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that numerous other definitions and calculations can be used in a similar manner to define different exposure modes for use in the depassivation processes of the present disclosure.

While in some implementations a single low bias mode and a single high bias mode are provided by the STM system in other instances more than one low bias mode and or more than one high bias mode are provided. For example in some instances multiple low bias modes are provided where the first low bias mode provides atomically precise patterning at a first scan speed and with a first amount of error and the second low bias mode provides atomically precise patterning at a second scan speed that is slower than the first scan speed but with a second amount of error that is less than the error associated with the first low bias mode. As a result when the most precise patterning possible is demanded the second low bias mode can be utilized recognizing that the increase in precision will result in a slower writing speed. It is understood that the first and second low bias modes may have different bias and or current parameters in addition to the different scan speeds. It is further understood that any number of low bias modes may be provided for with the STM system and that the different combinations of bias set point current and scan speed for each low bias mode may be optimized for particular aspects of the pattern writing process including writing speed edge precision of the pattern or otherwise.

In some implementations of hydrogen depassivation from a Si 100 surface an atomically precise low bias exposure mode used a 4V sample bias a 4 nA current and a scan speed of 10nm s. In use this exposure mode resulted in a line width of 0.78 nm the width of a single dimer row with little to no depassivation outside of this line width when the tip was moved down the middle 0.15 nm of a dimer row. Other combinations of bias voltages set point currents and scan speeds are used to remove a single row of hydrogen i.e. half the width of a dimer row and or larger line widths i.e. 1.5 dimer rows or larger .

Similarly in some instances multiple high bias modes are provided. Typically for high bias modes it is desirable to minimize the size of the partially saturated region in order to maintain the precision of the depassivation procedure. In this regard by minimizing the size of the partially saturated region the amount of time spent exposing the edges with a low bias mode to create atomically precise edge resolution is reduced. As the bias voltage is increased to increase the depassivation efficiency the tip of the STM system is raised further away from the surface which results in larger saturated and partially saturated regions. For a given high bias e.g. above 7V the depassivation rate i.e. hydrogen atoms removed per unit of time rises linearly with increased current. As the tip height is reduced to create the larger field necessary to generate the increased current the lower tip height reduces the size of both the saturated and partially saturated regions. Accordingly in some instances both the bias and the set point current are increased in order to increase the size of the fully saturated region while minimizing to the extent possible the size of the partially saturated region.

There are also instances where minimizing the size of the partially saturated region is not a priority. For example for interiors of relatively large pattern features and or edges of patterns that do not require atomic resolution edge acuity larger partially saturated regions may be tolerable such that the increased writing speed is worth the increase in the size of the partially saturated region. Accordingly in some implementations a series of high bias modes with fully saturated regions of increasing size that have corresponding partially saturated regions that increase in size are provided such that the most efficient high bias mode can be selected for writing particular portions of the pattern. In this regard examples of how particular write elements may be divided into multiple types of bias modes to increase the efficiency of the pattern writing process are discussed below. In some instances the depassivation characteristics of each exposure mode e.g. fully saturated line width partially saturated line width along the length of the pattern line and or partially saturated line width at the end s of the pattern line are taken into consideration when determining the particular exposure mode or combination of exposure modes utilized to generate a write element.

Referring now to shown therein are aspects of creating a desired pattern geometry by depassivating atoms or molecules from a lattice structure by defining scan fields and associated write fields based on the lattice structure the surface features such as different terraces and characteristics of a STM according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Referring initially to shown therein is a diagrammatic top view of sample having a plurality of scan fields according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In particular overlaid on the sample is a 2 2 array of scan fields formed by scan fields and . The scan range of most fine motion actuators utilized to control movement of the tip of a STM system is a few microns. Accordingly in some implementations the size of each scan field and is defined by the X Y direction range over which the actuators can control movement of the tip with the required accuracy and stability. For example in the illustrated embodiment the scan fields and have a width extending in the X direction and a height extending in the Y direction. In some implementations the width and the height are equal. In some instances the width is between about 0.5 m and about 10 m and the height is between about 0.5 m and about 10 m but alternate mechanical systems with improved stability may extend these distances.

Each of the scan fields and includes a plurality of write fields. In the illustrated embodiment each scan field and contains a 4 4 array of write fields. For example scan field includes write fields and . However it is understood that each scan field may include a different number of write fields in other embodiments ranging from a single write field to hundreds or more. In this regard the size of the write field is selected such that movement within that single write field and between adjacent write fields can be considered atomically precise at least when utilizing one or more of the control features of the present disclosure . In some instances each write field has a width extending in the X direction between about 20 nm and about 500 nm and a height extending in the Y direction between about 20 nm and about 500 nm. However with improved stability systems these ranges may be expanded. Accordingly write fields are typically smaller than scan fields and therefore a given scan field is made up of an array of similarly sized write fields. However it is possible that in some instances the stability and resolution of the STM could allow the scan fields and the write fields to be the same size. For sake of clarity in describing the concepts of the present disclosure in the following description the scan fields are understood to include an array of write fields.

In order to write a pattern on the address grid defined by the lattice structure in a manner that is precise and accurate with respect to both local and global aspects of the address grid reference points or fiducial markers associated with the lattice structure are relied upon in some instances. Each write field of the scan fields and includes a fiducial mark that allows the tip of the STM to be positioned with respect to it. The fiducial markers can be physical structures of the lattice structure that are located through imaging or some other process. The physical structures relied upon as fiducial markers can be existing features of the sample e.g. step edges between terraces dangling bonds dimer vacancies or other features identifiable on an image from a STM or may be created by the STM system e.g. portions of the written pattern dangling bonds created specifically to serve as position markers and or other surface features defined by the STM system . Regardless of how they are defined the fiducial markers are referred to during the pattern writing process in order to make sure that positioning relative to an absolute address on the patterning grid is maintained as the pattern is created.

In some instances the lithography process is carried out by registering the tip of the STM system to a fiducial marker that establishes a reference to the address grid associated with the lattice structure for the sample area to be patterned. The address grid is then correlated to the pixels of the designed digital image defining the pattern to be exposed. The pixels of the digital image of the pattern can be defined as individual surface atoms molecules or a group of atoms molecules. In this manner the pattern to be exposed is directly referenced to the surface of the sample. With the tip referenced to the fiducial marker the tip moves to a part of the pattern near the fiducial marker and starts the depassivation lithography process. As elements of the pattern are written portions of the pattern can themselves be used as fiducial markers which can reduce the distance and time required to ensure that the tip is properly referenced to the address grid during the pattern writing process.

As discussed above the error in position of the tip increases with time and distance traveled. Accordingly in some instances the size of the write fields is selected such that the tip of the STM can write a fiducial mark in one write field by depassivating one or more atoms or molecules register the fiducial mark position and record the exact pattern of the fiducial mark and then move to an adjacent write field to write the fiducial mark for the adjacent write field with a very high confidence that the positional error will be a small fraction of the surface lattice spacing. With this low positional error as a result of the relatively short time frame and short movement between the write fields the fiducial mark for the adjacent write field can be written and registered to the absolute address grid defined by the lattice structure. In some instances measures are taken to track and take into consideration any step edges between fiducial marks e.g. noting any changes in topography as the tip moves between positions when writing the fiducial marks . By repeating this process of writing fiducial marks in each write field a fiducial grid array is defined across the write fields. The fiducial grid array can then be used to control the position of the tip with respect to the global design grid during the depassivation process.

Referring now to shown therein is a diagrammatic top view of the scan field of with a portion of a desired pattern overlaid according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. As shown the pattern includes a plurality of pattern geometries that extend across the various write fields of scan field . In particular sections of the pattern extend over areas of write fields and . As shown the pattern does not include any sections that extend across write fields and . Some of the pattern geometries extend across multiple write fields. For example a rectangular pattern geometry extends horizontally from write field across write fields and to write field . In a similar manner some pattern geometries extend across multiple scan fields. For example a rectangular pattern geometry extends vertically from write field across write fields and of scan field and continues into one or more write fields of scan field .

In order to ensure that the positioning of the tip of the STM system during depassivation results in forming the desired pattern the pattern is divided into a plurality of write elements across the plurality of write fields. For example shows a diagrammatic top view of the scan field where the desired pattern of has been divided into a plurality of write elements across the plurality of write fields and according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Pattern geometries that extend across multiple write fields are fractured or divided into multiple write elements corresponding to each of the write fields. For example the rectangular pattern geometry of has been divided into a corresponding write pattern consisting of write elements and where write element corresponds to the section of rectangular pattern within write field write element corresponds to the section of rectangular pattern within write field write element corresponds to the section of rectangular pattern within write field and write element corresponds to the section of rectangular pattern within write field . Similar divisions of pattern geometries are performed for any pattern geometries that extend across a boundary between two write fields such that the entire desired pattern is defined by a plurality of write elements each write element contained in a single write field. Pattern geometries fully contained within a single write field include a corresponding write element within the write field.

Referring now to shown therein is a diagrammatic top view of write field of scan field of showing a plurality of write elements corresponding to a section of pattern associated with write field according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. As shown the write field includes write elements and . Each of write elements and is a section of a larger pattern geometry that extends across a boundary between write field and an adjacent write field. For example as discussed above write element defines a section of rectangular pattern geometry that extends horizontally from write field to adjacent write field through write field and on to write field . Write element is a section of a larger pattern geometry that extends vertically across the boundary between write field and write field . Similarly write element is a section of a larger pattern geometry that extends across the boundary between write field and write field . Finally write element is fully contained within the write field . That is the entire outer profile of write element is positioned within the boundaries of write field . While fracturing the pattern into the plurality of write elements associated with each of the write fields provides a general outline as to how the depassivation procedure should be performed by the STM system the particular manner in which the depassivation procedure is implemented takes several additional factors into consideration including the lithography parameters to be utilized and the associated saturated and un saturated line widths of such a bias voltage the scan pattern s across the write elements desired boundary precision for various parts of the pattern and or other factors involved with determining the variables used to implement the depassivation procedure.

In some instances each write element is fractured or divided into a plurality of sections based on the exposure mode s to be applied in a manner that takes into consideration the desired pattern accuracy while also trying to minimize the time needed to perform the patterning process.

As noted above even with each write element fractured or divided into a plurality of sections based on the particular exposure mode s to be applied it is still necessary to define how the tip of the STM should be moved across the write field to apply the selected exposure modes. In this and some following examples the patterns illustrated are small enough to be exposed entirely in the low bias atomic resolution mode. These patterning approaches can also be applied to the atomic resolution portions of write elements that also include high bias portions.

In the context of hydrogen depassivation of a silicon 100 2 1 surface depending on the implementation assuming an atomically precise low bias mode that has a fully saturated line width of 1 pixel the tip is moved along the dimer rows i.e. parallel to the dimer rows moved across the dimer rows i.e. perpendicular to the dimer rows and or combinations thereof. For example shows a diagrammatic schematic top view of the silicon lattice structure sample with the desired pattern outline with a write pattern extending along dimer rows of the silicon lattice structure sample according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. As shown the write pattern includes an alternating series of tip vectors moving up the dimer rows as depicted in and tip vectors moving down the dimer rows. The tip vectors and are connected by transition tip vectors that move the tip between dimer rows. By following the tip vectors and the tip traverses the entire area outlined by the pattern .

On the other hand shows a diagrammatic schematic top view of the silicon lattice structure sample with the desired pattern outline with a write pattern extending across the dimer rows of the silicon lattice structure sample according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. As shown the write pattern includes an alternating series of tip vectors moving across the dimer rows left to right as depicted in and tip vectors moving across the dimer rows right to left. The tip vectors and are connected by transition tip vectors that move the tip along the dimer row to the position for the next tip vector . By following the tip vectors and the tip traverses the entire area outlined by the pattern .

It is understood that these exemplary line patterns do not provide an exhaustive list of approaches but rather indicate the types of variations of line patterns that may be utilized. It is understood that other patterns including a raster scan approach or combinations of and or variations to the disclosed patterns are used in some instances. Further with any of these scan patterns instead of utilizing a constant speed scan feedback controlled movement of the tip can be implemented where the tip moves a short increment e.g. equal to dimer spacing or instance and remains motionless until either a specific tip height is detected indicating that the tip is positioned over a dangling bond or a current spike is detected indicating that a depassivation event has occurred . Due to the decrease in scan speed such feedback controlled movement of the tip is likely only to be used in the context of low bias modes where atomically precise line precision is needed. Further if and when there is concern about a missed atom or molecule and or repassivation a second pass across the write element or section thereof can be performed. In this regard the same scan pattern or a different scan pattern may be used for the second pass. In some instances a different scan pattern is intentionally utilized for the second pass in an effort to eliminate any adverse effects resulting from the scan pattern itself.

Referring now to shown therein are aspects of writing a desired pattern geometry by depassivating atoms or molecules from a lattice structure according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

Referring to shown therein is a diagrammatic top view of the scan field comprised of write fields and showing an exemplary path across the plurality of write fields for generating and or identifying fiducial markers within each write field according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. As discussed above with respect to the write fields and are sized such that movement within a single write field and between adjacent write fields is atomically precise within a given error tolerance . In some instances each write field has a width extending in the X direction between about 20 nm and about 500 nm and a height extending in the Y direction between about 20 nm and about 500 nm. However systems with improved stability might allow this range to be expanded.

Further each of the write fields and includes a fiducial marker . In some implementations the fiducial markers have a specific geometric pattern. For example in some instances the fiducial markers have a rectangular or square profile defined by a fixed number of pixels in the X and Y directions. As the fiducial markers can be defined by only a few pixels e.g. 2 2 array in some instances the fiducial markers can be written quickly and imaged to determine proper alignment with the lattice structure. In some instances the fiducial markers are formed at the same relative location within each of the write fields and . Accordingly in such instances the fiducial markers are spaced from adjacent fiducial markers in the X direction by the width of the write fields and are spaced from adjacent fiducial markers in the Y direction by the height of the write fields. For example shows that the fiducial marker of write field is spaced from the fiducial marker of write field by a distance that is equal to the width of the write fields and is spaced from the fiducial marker of write field by a distance that is equal to the height of the write fields. Accordingly in some instances an initial step of the depassivation process is creating and or identifying the fiducial marker s associated with each write field. In some instances there are circumstances where flawless matching of a pattern across write fields is highly desirable. In such instances using fiducial markers in an adjacent write field near or at the edge of the current write field can help ensure proper stitching of the pattern across the write fields.

In the illustrated embodiment the tip moves between the write fields and of the scan field by following the path . By identifying and tracking step edges when writing the fiducial array across the write fields and the system can adjust the location of the fiducial markers within each write field to account for pixel shifts and or otherwise keep track of the step edges to minimize positioning errors. Further information about the location of step edges collected while writing the fiducial array can be utilized in subsequent aspects of the depassivation procedure including determining pattern layout. Accordingly in some instances an imaging mode is applied when moving the tip between fiducial marker positions of adjacent write fields. This topological information is utilized in some implementations as part of the scheme s to locate and deal with step edges during the depassivation process. Some different ways of dealing with step edges are described below.

As noted above it is not necessary that the fiducial markers be written to the write fields. For example when pre scanning a write field reveals one or more identifiable surface features such as step edge features dimer vacancies and dangling bonds these surface features and associated positions can be used as a fiducial marker. Further as will be discussed below in some implementations an area around each fiducial marker is designated as a forbidden zone such that no portion of a write element is able to be positioned within the forbidden zone. Inevitably including such a forbidden zone around each fiducial marker will interfere with a desired pattern layout. In some instances this potential problem is eliminated by simply having any portion of the write element positioned within the forbidden zone written last within the write field such that there is no further need to reference the fiducial marker. In other instances the portion of the write element positioned within the forbidden zone can be written once another suitable fiducial marker is created within the write field as a result of writing the pattern. For example in some instances the system utilizes a portion of the pattern such as the corner of a rectangle as a fiducial marker in order to reference the tip position to the absolute registration of the lattice sample. In yet other instances an additional fiducial marker is written within the write field but outside the boundaries of any write elements of the write field. Further in some instances there will be one or more write fields that are to be completely exposed. Accordingly in such instances it is likely that the depassivation will be carried out with a high bias mode such that it is not necessary to inspect for step edges dangling bonds or vacancies and in some instances even the registration to the fiducial marker is not required for some write fields. Thus in some implementations one or more of the steps of creating or identifying fiducial markers registering to fiducial markers and or imaging to identify surface features can be scaled back or eliminated for these write fields.

Because each fiducial marker or other dangling bond feature written by the tip that is in a known position on the fiducial grid can be used as fiducial marker there is no need to return to a single global fiducial mark that may not be near a particular write field. This is because the constant periodicity of the Si 100 lattice structure prevents an accumulation of errors in the location of the fiducial markers. As a result the array of fiducial markers created by forming a fiducial marker in each write field and tracking terrace changes provides the necessary alignment to the lattice structure to facilitate the creation of atomically precise structures.

While absolute precision is the goal for writing the fiducial markers to the write fields there is a non zero chance of creating a fiducial marker that is not perfect for one reason or another. However once a fiducial marker is written it can be imaged and the particular pattern for the fiducial marker even if not the desired pattern can be recorded and associated with that particular write field. Accordingly when returning to that specific fiducial marker an autocorrelation of the stored image and a fresh scan of the fiducial can account for any deviation from a perfectly formed fiducial marker and therefore would not negatively impact the tip alignment process for the write field. In this regard when registering the tip to a fiducial marker whether it is part of the array of written fiducial markers part of a previously written pattern and or an identifiable portion of the sample structure there are a number of different techniques that can be used to identify the position of fiducial marker and register the tip position to the fiducial marker. For example one method to ensure that the fiducial marker is found and registered to is to perform an image scan on every write field. Such an approach also ensures that sample defects dangling bonds vacancies step edges etc. are detected. The scan speed and density of scan lines can be selected to trade off image resolution for shortened scan time. For instance a scan that included one scan line per dimer row is sufficient to detect the majority of defects. If more details of a detected defect are needed then additional scanning only in the defect area can be carried out. For instance a relatively low density scan can detect if there was a step edge in the write field. Smaller high resolution scans can then be carried out along the step edge to image all of the relevant details. In some instances image analysis of a high resolution scan of a region of the write field containing the fiducial marker is utilized. In other instances a lower resolution scan of the region of the write field containing the fiducial marker can be utilized to identify two or more of the edges of a fiducial marker and those edge positions can be utilized to register the tip position.

Other tip registration techniques may also be utilized. For example Hastings and Smith See e.g. Hastings et al. 18 3268 3271 2000 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety have developed a method of using information from a global fiducial grid during writing with conventional e beam lithography to keep the pattern placement accurate. A similar approach can be utilized for the depassivation lithography of the present disclosure where the global fiducial grid is the crystal lattice.

A general strategy for doing depassivation lithography in accordance with the present disclosure that maintains registration of the tip to the lattice structure based on the fiducial markers is to characterize the stability of the system so that there is a known length of time where the uncertainty in position remains significantly less than the pitch of the address grid. For example in the case of a silicon lattice structure for a Si 100 2 1 surface the pitch is 0.384 nm along the dimer row and 0.768 nm dimer row to dimer row. Accordingly in some instances the maximum allowable uncertainty in position of the tip is 0.192 nm. If the tip position cannot be determined within this tolerance then the registering of the tip to the absolute reference would be lost. Accordingly in some implementations the system periodically checks the tip position relative to the lattice structure to maintain accurate patterning.

For example provides a diagrammatic top view of the pixel grid of the write field of the scan field that has a desired pattern according to an embodiment of the present disclosure where a series of re scan positions have been identified. In particular lines and represent points in the depassivation patterning process within write field when the tip will check its position relative to the silicon lattice structure by re scanning the fiducial marker or other identifiable portion of the pattern e.g. one of the written corners . For example if it is presumed that the depassivation procedure proceeds from the top of the write field down then the tip will initially register with the fiducial marker and write the pattern until reaching line at which point the system will check the tip position relative to the lattice structure again by referencing the fiducial marker or one of the corners of the written pattern. This process will be repeated upon the tip reaching each of the lines and . The number of times and associated frequency that the tip position is checked may be determined based on the desired precision of the pattern the scan speed of the tip the size of the write element s and or other factors. This may result in more frequent checking of the desired position in sections where more lithography is performed and or more frequent position checking when the desired lithographic segment is farther from the fiducial marker .

In some instances the tip position is checked relative to the silicon lattice structure either clean or hydrogen passivated such that a relative lock to the address grid could be assured. In some instances a vertical hill climb is performed in order to reestablish the tip s reference to the lattice structure. In this regard a vertical hill climb is a method where the tip continually moves to the highest vertical point within a very small area to identify a local maximum that will be associated with an atom or a dimer row on the surface which facilitates a relative lock to the lattice. In other instances the tip position is checked relative to a written feature or pre existing feature of the sample e.g. a dangling bond fiducial pattern an existing dangling bond step edges dimer vacancies etc. that has a known relationship to the absolute reference of the lattice structure.

The alignment of the tip to the silicon lattice structure can be important not only when defining the edges of the pattern features but also can affect the writing process. For instance as mentioned in the depassivation lithography section when writing on a hydrogen passivated Si 100 sample there is a tolerance of 0.15 nm for successful patterning. If such depassivation techniques are to be relied upon and utilized to create atomically precise patterns then a higher tip positioning accuracy is required than that necessary for simply keeping a lock on the absolute grid address of the silicon lattice structure.

When writing in the high bias modes the patterning is not as precise and therefore the resulting features of the high bias modes cannot generally be relied upon to reference the tip to the absolute address grid of the lattice structure. However due to the lower precision the need for tip position accuracy is not as high when patterning in the high bias modes. Therefore the time between re referencing the tip to absolute address grid can be increased relative to the low bias modes. Accordingly in some instances it is desirable to form the high resolution portions of the patterns using the low bias modes first such that aspects of those high resolution portions can be utilized as a local fiducial marker that can be accessed as needed when subsequently forming the lower resolution portions of the patterns in the high bias modes.

The low bias lithography modes also have a high resolution of the surface details. In this regard similar to the imaging mode the tip operates in the tunneling regime in the low bias modes and in some instances the feedback control loop is still on to control the tip position. As a result high resolution topographical information is also obtained in the low bias modes. Of course in the lithography mode dangling bonds are constantly being created but as mentioned below some of the written pattern features from the low bias exposure modes can be utilized as to maintain the accurate absolute registration of the tip to the address grid of the lattice structure. In high bias exposure modes where the tip emission is in the field emission regime the feedback loop is still on in some instances but the resulting imaging resolution is typically much poorer and therefore is much more difficult to use for referencing.

In some implementations the position of the tip is checked during the patterning of a single pattern element. For instance consider the writing of a rectangle of arbitrary size that is contained within a scan field. After the tip position has been verified to be aligned correctly with the absolute grid address a single pixel line around the periphery is written without reference to the surface by the calibrated or closed loop positioning system. In some implementations this outer boundary is written in the time frame that allows for the patterning to be completed before drift or other effects would have a meaningful chance of causing the tip to lose the absolute reference. If the time needed to write the boundary is longer than can be safely presumed to avoid such effects then a re referencing of the tip to the fiducial mark can be performed and the creation of the outer boundary resumed.

Once the outline of the rectangle is complete the tip can move along the inside of the written periphery to expose lines of pixels one after another e.g. in a serpentine pattern until all pixels are written. In some instances the feedback loop is still on during this process and the tip responds to the tails of the dangling bonds of the pixels on the adjacent line. Accordingly as the tip proceeds along the line that it is writing the average height of the tip increases as the tip drifts closer to the previously written line and decreases as the tip drifts away from the previously written line. This tip height variation can be used to keep the tip centered in the line of pixels that it is writing. As the tip approaches the periphery of the rectangle that was already written the increase in tip height due to the already written dangling bond of the outer boundary provides a clear indication of the tip position in the orthogonal direction.

Referring now to shown therein are aspects of ensuring proper alignment of the tip of the STM to the lattice structure after a coarse movement of the tip across the lattice structure according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In this regard is a diagrammatic top view of a pair of scan fields according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In particular scan field and an adjacent scan field are illustrated. As shown the scan fields and share a column of write fields. More specifically write fields and are portions of both scan field and scan field such that the write fields and define a right boundary of scan field and a left boundary of scan field . In other embodiments adjacent scan fields do not include overlapping such as shown by scan fields and of . Regardless of the particular arrangement of the scan fields movement between scan fields is indicative of a coarse positioning of the tip of the STM with respect to the sample.

In the illustrated embodiment of the coarse movement of the tip is represented by path . As shown the coarse positioning is utilized to move the tip from the center of scan field to the center of scan field . In the illustrated path the movement is entirely in the x direction. However it is understood that the coarse positioning may be defined by motion in the x direction y direction and or combinations thereof. As discussed above the components that control the coarse motion of the tip are typically different than the piezoelectric actuators or other elements that are utilized to control the primary scan functions of the STM system. In some instances the tip disengages from the sample during coarse positioning.

As a result of the coarse movement of the tip it is necessary for the tip to be re referenced to the lattice structure within a write field of the new scan field . In this regard a coarse error E results from the coarse motion of the tip. In some instances other tip position errors associated with the system are also taken into consideration. For example positional errors in the x and y directions E E are the errors associated with creep and calibration errors in the x and y directions. In some instances the positional errors E E are defined by a function having the form dx Cx where Cis a constant and x is the distance away from a reference point. In some instances the constant associated with the y direction positional error function is different than the constant associated with the x direction positional error function. Similarly a time based positional error E accounts for the expected uncertainty in tip position due to drift. In some instances the time based positional error is defined as E C t C t C t . Accordingly in some implementations the total positional error E is defined by the combination of positional errors E E associated with creep and calibration and the time based positional errors E . For example in some instances the total positional error is defined as E sqrt E E . However in some instances the individual x and y components of the total error are taken into consideration such that the total positional error in each of the x and y directions is defined by E E E and E E E .

In order to re reference the tip to the lattice structure within the new scan field the tip is moved to the center of an expected location of a fiducial marker. For example in the illustrated embodiment of the movement of the tip from the center of scan field to the expected location of fiducial marker in write field is represented by path . As the movement defined by path is within the scan field it is carried out by the piezoelectric actuators or other elements that are utilized to control the primary scan functions of the STM system instead of the coarse positioning components. With the tip positioned where a fiducial marker is expected to be located a region of the sample centered on that location is imaged in order to identify the fiducial marker and reference the tip to the actual location of the fiducial marker. To this end is a diagrammatic top view of a portion of the pixel grid of write field corresponding to the region that will be scanned in an effort to identify the fiducial marker . As shown the scan region is sized to take into account the expected total scan error E E and coarse motion error E E associated with moving the tip from the scan field to the center of scan field to the expected location of fiducial marker within the write field . Accordingly in the illustrated embodiment the scan region has a width in the x direction that is equal to 2 E 2 E and a height in the y direction that is equal to 2 2 E . In this manner as long as the positional error is within the expected tolerances then the fiducial marker will be captured by the scan region and the tip can be referenced to the fiducial marker and thereby the sample lattice structure.

With a desired pattern defined in pixels that have a direct correspondence to the surface lattice structure of the sample the pattern is divided into scan fields write fields and write elements for one or more exposure modes e.g. low bias modes and or high bias modes . The starting pattern is defined in pixels and the edges of the pattern are characterized in terms of the desired e.g. absolute atomic precision atomic precision edge acuity of x pixels or less etc. . The process of converting a pattern defined as a set of pixels and associated edge acuities into an input file with a list of instructions for the tip to follow in terms of movements and exposure modes is generally referred to as compiling. Exemplary aspects of compiling a pattern for depassivation lithography in accordance with the present disclosure are described below. However it is understood that the described steps of compiling the pattern are exemplary in nature and that one or more of the steps may be omitted one or more additional steps may be added and or the order of the steps may be changed without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Further one skilled in the art will recognize that there are alternative ways or manners of compiling a pattern for the depassivation lithography techniques of the present disclosure and such alternative techniques are included within the scope of the present disclosure. Generally speaking any type of compiling procedure now known or developed in the future may be utilized to compile patterns for use with the depassivation lithography processes of the present disclosure.

For the sake of clarity in the provided example it is presumed that the STM system is operable in an imaging mode and three different depassivation exposure modes. More specifically the depassivation exposure modes include one atomically precise low bias mode LB and two different high bias modes HB and HB . For the compiling process these different exposure modes are understood to have the following line pattern characteristics in terms of fully saturated and partially saturated portions as measured in units of pixels 

The following process is one way to divide the exposure of such a pattern between these three exposure modes that attempts to minimize the use of the LB mode while maintaining the atomic precision of the AP boundaries and respecting the tolerances defined for the non AP boundaries and at the same time attempting to use the HB mode as much as possible to speed up the exposure process. In this example the portions of the pattern in the write field that are coincident with the write field boundaries are treated as AP boundaries if the desired pattern does not extend beyond the boundary and is specified to be an AP boundary. If however the pattern does extend beyond the write field boundary that edge will be considered a non AP boundary with a tolerance as large as the extent of the pattern beyond the write field e.g. in the adjacent write field s .

The first step in this process as shown in is to place HB the HB mode with the smallest partially saturated regions lines along the periphery of the pattern starting with the longest such AP boundary edge and proceeding in decreasing length order until all boundary edges that are longer than the fully saturated width of mode HB have an HB line along the edge. In HB lines and have been placed in that order. In placing these lines the outer edge of the partially saturated region aligns with the AP boundaries and while the non AP boundaries align with the fully saturated region of the HB line unless the partially saturated region of the line extends beyond the tolerance area for that boundary. In that case the edge of the partially saturated region of the HB line aligns with the limit of the tolerance defined for that non AP boundary.

The second step in this process as illustrated in is to extend the HB lines at either end in the order that they were assigned until their saturated region meets the saturated region of another HB line or the edge of the partially saturated region of the extending line reaches an AP boundary or the tolerance of an Non AP boundary. Allowing HB lines to overlap is acceptable in some instances. For instance HB line extends down until its fully saturated region reaches the fully saturated region of HB line . Similarly lines and have been extended until their fully saturated regions met the fully saturated regions of the other lines. HB line was similarly extended in this case at both ends.

The third step in this process as illustrated in is to place HB lines in the pattern. This is done wherever there is an area of pixels at least N N where N is the fully saturated line width of HB lines that are not yet covered by fully saturated regions of one of the previously placed HB lines. This placement must not place any portion of the HB line i.e. fully or partially saturated portions outside of the AP boundaries or outside the tolerance of non AP boundaries. The placement of the HB lines should maximize the coverage of fully saturated pixels in the pattern while minimizing the overlap of fully saturated pixels. HB line is placed according to these rules in .

The fourth step in this process as illustrated in is to place additional HB lines where possible following the same rules to the placement of HB lines in step three. These additional HB lines are placed wherever there is an area of pixels at least M M where M is the fully saturated line width of HB lines that are not yet covered by fully saturated regions of one of the previously placed HB or HB lines. HB lines and are placed according to these rules in .

The fifth step in this process as illustrated in is to identify all of the pixels that are inside the desired pattern area that are not covered by the fully saturated regions of the HB and HB exposures and designate these as pixels that will be exposed by the LB mode. The identified pixels are collected into rectangular LB write elements. The rectangular LB write elements and are shown in .

The sixth step of this process as illustrated in is to define the tip vectors for the HB and HB modes. A tip vector that will expose one of the HB or HB lines defined in steps 2 4 will run along the center line of the defined line with the beginning and end points being at or close to the end of the saturated region. Tip vectors and for the HB and HB lines are shown in . In some instances the beginning and end points are biased slightly to achieve the desired exposure pattern. The necessary adjustment is determined experimentally in some implementations. The direction of the tip vector could be either direction along the line and could be selected to minimize tip motion and or creep. Similarly the order of the tip vectors order of exposure can be chosen to minimize tip motion and or creep.

The seventh step in this process is to define tip vectors for the LB mode exposures. Rectangular LB write elements were defined in step 5. Exposure along dimer rows as depicted in or perpendicular to dimer rows as depicted in or other exposure approaches discussed elsewhere herein can be used to define LB mode tip vectors.

At the end of this process a list of ordered tip vectors is defined for each mode within each write field. These tip vectors can be organized into a file representing the exposure process for any specific pattern. The order of tip vectors in the file represents the exposure order in some instances. To that end the exposure order can be selected to satisfy a number of different criteria. For instance doing the LB exposures first has the advantage of creating structures that can be used as fiducials for subsequent HB and HB exposures. If set up and verification of the different exposure modes are long enough it is preferable in some instances to finish all LB exposures in all scan and write fields before moving on to HB and HB exposures. Similarly all HB exposures are completed before moving onto HB exposures in some instances. On the other hand if minimizing total tip motion in exposures is desirable completing all exposure modes in each write field may be preferable in some implementations. Other organizing principles may be used including ones that take into account the need to protect fiducial markers until they are no longer required.

There are a number of different tip paths that can be taken when moving from one write field to another write field within a single write field when moving from one write element to another write element and even within a write element for example choosing whether to write along or across dimer rows. The particular path selected can be determined in real time by the STM system or by ordering the details of the write elements in the input file as described above. In determining the tip path there are different organizing principles that can be used.

In some instances the tip path is organized in an effort to minimize the length of the path which can improve time efficiency and potentially reduced positional errors. One such approach for minimizing path length is shown in where the tip follows a serpentine path e.g. path of through the write fields of a scan field when writing the array of fiducial markers. Once the last fiducial marker has been written for the scan field and the relative location of last fiducial marker has been verified to the lattice structure then the write element with the closest starting point to the last fiducial marker is identified e.g. by using a simple approximation to the traveling salesman problem or other technique for determining the write element with closest starting point . The tip motion proceeds by moving to closest write element exposing the write element pattern with the appropriate exposure mode s and then moving to the next closest write element. This process is repeated until all of the write elements of the write field have been exposed at which point the tip proceeds to the next write field following a path e.g. path of that moves across the write fields in a reverse order to the original serpentine pattern e.g. path of that wrote the fiducial array. Upon registering the tip to the fiducial marker in the new write field the tip continues the process of writing the nearest write element in the manner described above. If there are no write elements for a write field then the tip simply continues to the next write field. This process continues until all of the write elements in the write fields have been written.

In some instances the tip path is organized to take into consideration the different bias modes that will be used to write the pattern. As noted previously if the pattern is to be written with both a low bias mode and a high bias mode then there can be advantages to exposing the low bias mode portions first. For example the atomic precision of these low bias portions allows parts of the written pattern to serve as additional fiducial markers that can be used for tip registration. To this end the tip path can be organized to write all low bias mode portions for a write field or a scan field before moving to the high bias mode portions for the write field or the scan field.

As noted above there will inevitably be instances where it is necessary to write a pattern over an area of a sample that contains one or more atomic step edges between terraces. Exemplary methods by which the patterns can accommodate these surface features are described below. The example used here to provide different techniques for dealing with step edges are specific to Si 001 or the 001 face of other diamond structure elements such as diamond or germanium. For 111 faces of cubic crystals for example there will be three layers with different atom positions before the crystal repeats itself and for 0001 faces of hexagonal close packed crystals there will be two. Thus in general although the details will differ from one surface to another similar concepts as those presented herein can be applied by abstracting a surface structure into arrays of individually writable pixels and handling any step edge twin boundary and or other crystal defect on any crystal surface.

In the exemplary case of Si 001 with a diamond crystal lattice step edges will introduce unavoidable shifts of of the average atom spacing on a Si 100 surface which is equivalent to a of a pixel described above. If two or more step edges are encountered if there are epitaxial islands of different dimerization phases and or if there is a mixture of rebonded and non rebonded B type step edges present then the pixel displacement on a particular terrace could be shifted as much as of a pixel or an entire silicon atom. If these step edges are not taken into consideration then the associated offsets in the actual surface atom positions relative to the design pixel grid can result in errors that adversely affect the depassivation process and the resulting pattern completeness and accuracy. The present disclosure provides several different techniques for handling these step edges when defining the pixel grid of the lattice structure. The techniques described below avoid error accumulation and limit the maximum shift of the desired pattern placement such that the error in the control of the placement of pattern elements and their edges can be kept to less than a pixel.

In the following paragraphs two different methods of dealing with the shifts in atomic positions due to step edges for Si 100 2 1 surfaces will be described. Each of these methods will start with a design based on the 4 atom pixel described above where the pixels are placed on a single atomic terrace. Each of these examples will deal with small patterns where the exposures are all to be accomplished with atomic resolution e.g. low bias modes where the precision of the pattern definition and tip motion to accomplish the exposure are of the highest importance. In the context of the less precise patterning e.g. high bias modes that will often be made in coordination with the atomically precise patterning the partial pixel shifts can be ignored in some implementations. Each of the methods described below also addresses the generation of tip vectors that are used to make the low bias exposures. A distinguishing feature between each of the described methods is the level of pre scanning of the write field that is utilized. In method 1 the least amount of pre scanning is done. In method 2 there is a relatively complete pre scan or surface sampling as described with reference to so that essentially all surface features are known. It should be noted that aspects of two or more of these methods may be combined to form additional methods of dealing with step edges without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Collectively show aspects of writing a desired pattern geometry by depassivating atoms or molecules from a lattice structure having multiple terraces that takes into account the effects of the multiple terraces according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Referring initially to the method starts by assuming the pattern will be formed on a silicon lattice structure sample having a single terrace. With a single terrace there is no ambiguity in the pattern layout as all of the pixels are defined by a common grid and therefore have a regular spacing. To this end shows a desired pattern outline laid out on the single terrace sample .

With the pattern defined on the single terrace sample the terrace structure of an actual sample onto which the pattern is to be formed can be taken into consideration. For example illustrates a silicon lattice structure sample having multiple terraces according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In this context a terrace is understood to mean a generally contiguous area of the sample surface having dimer rows extending in a common direction. In particular the sample has four terraces and beginning with the upper most or highest terrace and transition through terraces and to the lower most or bottom terrace . Further there is an epitaxial island located on terrace which has the same height as terrace but the dimer rows are out of phase with the dimer rows of terrace . Referring now to the pattern is overlaid onto the sample . As shown the pattern extends across all four terraces and of the sample . In the illustrated embodiment the reference terrace of the pattern is terrace . As a result of the terrace transitions the pattern is offset with respect to dimer row trenches of each of terraces and and island . Accordingly in some instances the original pattern is modified to create a pattern as illustrated in that aligns the pattern outline to the dimer rows and dimers of each terrace and . To this end in some implementations the portions of the pattern that are offset with respect to a dimer row are transitioned to the nearest possible dimer row or dimer. Where the pattern is offset an equal distance between two dimer rows or dimers then the pattern is transitioned in accordance with a default rule. For example in some instances the default rule indicates that for vertical pattern edges the pattern should move left and for horizontal pattern edges the pattern should move down. In other embodiments the default rule can dictate that the pattern move right or up respectively. Any combination of vertical pattern edge rules left or right and horizontal pattern edge rules up or down can be utilized. Using such an approach resolves discrepancies in ideal pattern layout over a single terrace with respect to pixel grid layouts across multiple terraces without error accumulation as all modifications are relative to the initial pattern outline and in no case are individual pattern boundary motions larger than of a pixel.

As shown in with the modified pattern defined tip vectors i.e. the movements the tip of the STM system is to make for writing the depassivation pattern are defined. In this regard nominal tip vectors are defined based on the original pattern . The tip vectors are then modified as necessary to align with the lattice structure across the different terraces and . This may include rotation of the tip vectors of successive terraces in order to align the tip vectors along or across the local dimer rows. In the illustrated embodiment modified tip vectors are defined. In this regard in some implementations the modification of the tip vectors follows the same approach including similar vertical and horizontal decision rules as that used to modify the pattern into the pattern . This approach provides a simple and straightforward way of dealing with step edges to limit or eliminate adverse effects to the depassivation process.

In the above approach the pattern edges and then the direction and position of tip vectors are adjusted for on an ad hoc basis. It may in some instances be preferable to define a shift for the pixel grid for an entire terrace and then to adjust the pattern edges for every write element on that terrace according to the shift in the pixel grid. Explicit determination of the shift in the pixel grid would allow for example that different write elements which are on the same terrace would be shifted in the same direction thus maintaining their precise relative separation.

Collectively show aspects of writing a desired pattern geometry by depassivating atoms or molecules from a lattice structure having multiple terraces that takes into account the effects of the multiple terraces according to another embodiment of the present disclosure. In some instances the process of laying out and adjusting the global pixel grid proceeds as follows When the tip is moving across the surface it will detect a step edge by the sudden change in average height. In some instances the tip will make a pre scan over a small area bridging the step edge to determine the local position of the dimer row trenches and the position of the step edge on the new terrace using the methods described above in . In other instances the tip will make a detailed scan of the entire write field to determine the location of all the step edges within the write field.

Based upon this pre scan the pixel grid will be laid out with the dimer row trenches defining pixel edges in one direction for each terrace and the pixel edges chosen in the other direction to minimize the net shift from the global reference grid. For example a model of a section of the Si 001 surface is shown schematically in . The average z level i.e. tip height for each terrace is utilized to determine terrace heights. It should be noted that in the context of this technique two epitaxial islands are considered as separate terraces having the same height. Such an interpretation is desirable as the dimer rows of the two islands may have a pixel shift with respect to each other. Referring now to a pixel grid has been laid out on the surface section covering each of the terraces and .

If possible the layout should shift in order to minimize any gaps in the grids between layers. Where this is unavoidable half pixels should be used or overlap of pixels on the two layers as illustrated by half pixels on terrace in .

Using this method 2 will define all pixels and their precise location in the pattern desired to be exposed. Tip vectors may be determined by simply defining a path that travels over each pixel in each terrace. These could be all vertical paths all horizontal paths or paths designed to minimize the number of tip vectors or some other criteria. Furthermore since the direction of the dimer rows for each terrace will be known it is possible to define tip vectors that are aligned with the dimer rows or are perpendicular with the dimer rows. Note that the tip vectors could be traced in either direction. Those skilled in the art recognize that there are many different and effective approaches that could be used to accomplish the same exposure.

This alternative method of dealing with step edges that tracks accumulated step edge errors is more time consuming than the Method 1 approach described above in the context of but has the advantage of anticipating the shifts that will buy some margin in keeping a known registration to the design grid. Accordingly this approach of tracking accumulated step edge errors is implemented when maintaining registration is paramount. For example in some implementations this accumulated error technique is utilized when writing a fiducial marker grid to the sample while the Method 1 technique of is utilized when writing a pattern to the sample.

At this point the sample surface and associated pixel grid are suitably formatted for a pattern compiler. The pattern compiler overlays the desired pattern in pixels as if the sample surface is defined by a single terrace aligned to the reference terrace as shown by the outline in

As illustrated in the pixels to be written are identified and an associated adapted pattern is defined so as to give the closest match to the desired pattern . Where the mismatch is of a pixel the selected pixel will usually be unambiguous and not be changed. Where the mismatch is of a pixel there may be a choice of directions. For example if the pattern edge falls in the center of a dimer row in some implementations the edge is moved down or to the left in order to reach a trench between dimer rows. If the pattern edge falls between two dimers within a pixel the edge may also be moved down and left in order to reach a pixel edge. In other instances a half pixel i.e. one dimer along a dimer row may be used to achieve a better match.

As illustrated in the compiler then assigns a series of tip vectors that are defined to pass along the center line of the pixels with a spacing of one dimer row or one pixel so as to expose all of the pixels to be written in accordance with the adapted pattern . The lengths of the tip vectors may be non integer numbers of pixels which allows for offsets at step edges and for any half pixels. The compiler determines a suitable tip pathway across the write field that takes into account any requirements to write along and or across dimer rows. For write elements of the write field contained on a single terrace the tip moves from a starting point along the dimer row to the edge of the pattern moves across one dimer row and back along the new dimer row to the edge of the pattern alternating direction until the end point is reached. For a write element extending across multiple terraces of a write field the compiler fractures the write element into a plurality of sub write elements that are each contained on a single terrace. Where possible the sub write elements are defined as rectangular patterns. Where a write element must cross a step edge and cannot be fractured into separate sub write elements each contained on a single terrace the tip motion is defined to follow the dimer row in the direction of the majority terrace. Overlap of tip vectors is permitted since there is no issue of overexposure in the case of hydrogen depassivation.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will also recognize that the methods and systems described above can be modified in various ways. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the embodiments encompassed by the present disclosure are not limited to the particular exemplary embodiments described above. In this regard while illustrative embodiments have been shown and described a wide range of modification change and substitution is contemplated in the foregoing disclosure. It is understood that such variations may be made to the foregoing without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly it is appropriate that the appended claims be construed broadly and in a manner consistent with the present disclosure.

