---

title: Location-based communications across time
abstract: A first user at a location creates content (e.g., a text, voice message, photograph, image, video, or other content) associated with the location and sends the content to a service provider server using a first user device. The service provider server stores the content for future visitors of the location to access. When a second user with a second user device is subsequently at or close to the location associated with the content, the service provider server provides access to the content based on a location of the second user device and one or more criteria, such as a search area criterion, time interval criterion, access area criterion, and/or user interest criterion. The second user may then view the content on the second user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09398410&OS=09398410&RS=09398410
owner: STUBHUB, INC.
number: 09398410
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140929
---
The present disclosure relates generally to electronic communications and more particularly to communications across time based on location.

Computer systems and networks have facilitated the tasks of communication and socialization among users. For example global computer networks such as the Internet have allowed users to communicate with other users online via the networks. Similarly global computer networks provide an efficient and cost effective medium for service providers to provide electronic communication services.

A user may communicate with other users using a mobile device via a network. For example the user may send text messages voice messages photographs videos or other media directly to other users that they already know in a short message service SMS email or social media communication. Users often want to find and communicate with other users with common interests. However it may sometimes be difficult to locate or identify others with common interests.

Exemplary applications of systems and methods according to the present invention are described in this section. These examples are being provided solely to add context and aid in the understanding of the invention. It will thus be apparent to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps have not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Other applications are possible such that the following examples should not be taken as limiting.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the description and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments of the present invention. Although these embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable one skilled in the art to practice the invention it is understood that these examples are not limiting such that other embodiments may be used and changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Devices systems and methods are provided for electronic communication and social networking. In various particular embodiments the devices systems or methods can involve one or more devices in communication over a network. Such devices systems and methods can facilitate communicating across time based on location.

A first user may visit a location and may be interested in communicating with future visitors of the location. The location may be a stadium for sports games a theater for performances a building a restaurant or other venue. For example the first user may want to communicate with future visitors because they share a common interest particularly when the location is a place that draws people with certain interests e.g. a stadium that draws fans of a sports team . In another example the first user may want to communicate with future visitors to share information about the location e.g. quality of food at a stand in a stadium .

In various embodiments a first user creates content e.g. a text a voice message a photograph an image a video or other media content at a location using a first mobile device. The content is associated with a location such as a location where the content is created. The content may be associated with a time such as a created time or a stored time. The first user may provide the content to a service provider server for storage and access by future visitors of the same or nearby location.

The location associated with the content may be based on a user location determined by the first mobile device. The first mobile device may use global positioning system GPS cellular signals Wi Fi signals BLUETOOTH Low Energy BLUETOOTH LE signals NFC signals LTE Direct signals or a combination thereof. The first mobile device may associate the user location to the content by geotagging the content which adds geographical information as metadata to the content. The geographical identification may include latitude and longitude coordinates altitude distance accuracy data and or place names.

The geographical identification of the content may range from broad to specific. For example the location may include a stadium a section within a stadium a row within a section or a seat within a section. In another example the location may include a building a floor within a building or a room within a floor. However this is merely illustrative. The location may be any location at which the user of the first mobile device wishes to geotag content for a future visitor to that location. The location associated with the content may be identified using one or more levels of specificity.

The time associated with the content may be based on timestamping by the first mobile device. The first mobile device may associate a time with the content by timestamping the content which adds a timestamp as metadata to the content. The timestamps of the content may include for example a created time an accessed time a modified time a saved time an uploaded time a downloaded time etc.

In various embodiments when a second user is subsequently at or close to a location associated with content that has been geotagged at that location the second user uses a second mobile device to access and receive the content from the service provider server. The service provider server receives a location of the second user based on a user location determined by the second mobile device. The service provider server provides access to the content based on the location of the second user and or one or more criteria. The criteria may relate to the location of the second user and the location time and access area associated with the content. For example the service provider server may determine based on the received location of the second user and one or more locations associated with stored content that the second user is at or near the location of a first portion of the content. Based on the determination that the second user is at or near the location of the first portion of the stored content the second user may be provided access to that first stored content. The second user may then view the first stored content on the second mobile device.

In another embodiment content shared or not shared with the second user may be based on information about the first user and the second user such as shared interests related to or independent of the event. For example the first and second user may both be interested in wines e.g. such as shown by search history purchase history social networks self entered interest and the like . As such content from the first user may be shared with the second user including an indication that the first user likes wine. This may prompt a discussion or a more focused discussion or communication between the two users. In another example the first user may be a fan of a visiting team while the second user is a fan of the home team. If the content associated with the first user is directed to a visiting team the second user has no interest in content may not be shared. This enables the system to provide selective content so that the second user is only presented with content of interest to the second user.

The second user may respond to the first user by storing second content as a response or may respond directly to the first user. In an embodiment when the first user or another user is subsequently at or nearby the location associated with the first stored content and the second content the first user or the other user is able to view the response. In another embodiment the response is communicated directly e.g. delivered in real time from device to device or through a server or network to the first user who receives a notification of the response and or is able to view the response the next time a location based storage application is opened. In this way a connection between the first user and the second user may be established by which the first user and second user may be able to continue communications if desired.

A particular example will now be described in connection with attendees of sporting events at a stadium. This example is merely illustrative and is not intended to be limiting. In this particular example a first user watches a sports game at a stadium. The first user creates content by for example capturing a photograph or video of the game from his or her seat on the day of the game e.g. during the game recording a voice message e.g. I sat in your seat in 2014 and I m witnessing the team celebrating their championship victory right now How is the team at your time or typing a text message e.g. Don t buy the hotdog at the entrance it tastes bad. . The first user provides the content which is geotagged and timestamped for storage on a service provider server using his or her mobile device. The first user may select the section row seat or other location within the stadium as the area for accessing the content or the service provider server may determine the location for accessing the content based on the geotag of the content and or other information e.g. a seat location of a purchased ticket of the first user . For example the first user may select the section as the area for accessing the content.

In this particular example a second user subsequently watches a different sports game or a concert or other event at the same section in the stadium. The second user may be determined to be in the same section and because the second user is in the same section the second user may be provided access to the content information. The second user uses his or her mobile device to receive the content. The second user may then view the content. The second user may leave a response to the content for the first user and or may leave additional content associated with the location for subsequent visitors to the location. The first user may view the response the next time he or she visits the stadium or may receive the response directly from the second user.

While the various examples disclosed herein focus on particular aspects regarding the online communication it will be understood that the various inventive principles and embodiments disclosed herein can be applied to other types of communication applications and arrangements as well. For example communications that is performed on a closed or proprietary computing system may utilize one or more of the aspects and features found in the various systems and methods provided.

Reference throughout the specification to various embodiments some embodiments one embodiment an embodiment various examples one example an example or some examples means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment or example is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of these are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

According to an embodiment a computer program product can comprise a non transitory machine readable medium. The non transitory machine readable medium can have computer readable and executable code for instructing one or more processors to perform any of the methods disclosed herein.

Beginning with an exemplary embodiment of a computing system adapted for implementing location based communications across time is illustrated in block diagram format. As shown a computing system may comprise or implement a plurality of servers and or software components that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary servers may include for example stand alone and enterprise class servers operating a server OS such as a MICROSOFT OS a UNIX OS a LINUX OS or other suitable server based OS. It can be appreciated that the servers illustrated in may be deployed in other ways and that the operations performed and or the services provided by such servers may be combined or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of servers. One or more servers may be operated and or maintained by the same or different entities.

Computing system can include among various devices servers databases and other elements a client that may comprise or employ one or more client devices such as a laptop a mobile computing device a PC a wearable device and or any other computing device having computing and or communications capabilities in accordance with the described embodiments. In particular it is specifically contemplated that client devices can include a cellular telephone or other similar mobile device that a user can carry on or about his or her person and access readily.

Client devices generally may provide one or more client programs such as system programs and application programs to perform various computing and or communications operations. Exemplary system programs may include without limitation an operating system e.g. MICROSOFT OS UNIX OS LINUX OS SYMBIAN OS EMBEDIX OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JAVA OS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and others device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. Exemplary application programs may include without limitation a web browser application messaging applications e.g. e mail IM SMS MMS telephone voicemail VoIP video messaging contacts application calendar application electronic document application database application media application e.g. music video television location based services LBS application e.g. GPS mapping directions point of interest locator and so forth. One or more of client programs may display various graphical user interfaces GUIs to present information to and or receive information from one or more of client devices .

As shown client can be communicatively coupled via one or more networks to a network based system . Network based system may be structured arranged and or configured to allow client to establish one or more communications sessions with network based system using various computing devices and or client programs . Accordingly a communications session between client and network based system e.g. a communications session for a user to communicate with other users by transmitting and receiving content data may involve the unidirectional and or bidirectional exchange of information and may occur over one or more types of networks depending on the mode of communication. While the embodiment of illustrates a computing system deployed in a client server operating environment it is to be understood that other suitable operating environments and or architectures may be used in accordance with the described embodiments.

Data and or voice communications between client and the network based system may be sent and received over one or more networks such as the Internet a WAN a WWAN a WLAN a mobile telephone network a landline telephone network a VoIP network as well as other suitable networks. For example client may communicate with network based system over the Internet or other suitable WAN by sending and or receiving information via interaction with a web site e mail IM session and or video messaging session. Any of a wide variety of suitable communication types between client and system can take place as will be readily appreciated. In particular wireless communications of any suitable form may take place between client and system such as that which often occurs in the case of mobile phones or other personal mobile devices.

In various embodiments computing system can include among other elements a third party which may comprise or employ a third party server hosting a third party application . In various implementations third party server and or third party application may host a web site associated with or employed by a third party . For example third party server and or third party application may enable network based system to provide client with additional services and or information such as email services and or information.

In one embodiment third party server may include an email server that hosts a user s email account. In some embodiments one or more of client programs may be used to access network based system via third party . For example client may use a web client to access and or receive content from network based system after initially communicating with a third party web site .

Network based system may comprise one or more communications servers to provide suitable interfaces that enable communication using various modes of communication and or via one or more networks . Communications servers can include a web server an API server and or a messaging server to provide interfaces to one or more application servers . Application servers of network based system may be structured arranged and or configured to provide various online messaging social networking and other communications services to users that access network based system . In various embodiments client may communicate with applications servers of network based system via one or more of a web interface provided by web server a programmatic interface provided by API server and or a messaging interface provided by messaging server . It can be appreciated that web server API server and messaging server may be structured arranged and or configured to communicate with various types of client devices and or client programs and may interoperate with each other in some implementations.

Web server may be arranged to communicate with web clients and or applications such as a web browser web browser toolbar desktop widget mobile widget web based application web based interpreter virtual machine and so forth. API server may be arranged to communicate with various client programs and or a third party application comprising an implementation of API for network based system . Messaging server may be arranged to communicate with various messaging clients and or applications such as e mail IM SMS MMS telephone VoIP video messaging and so forth and messaging server may provide a messaging interface to enable access by client and or third party to the various services and functions provided by application servers .

Application servers of network based system may be implemented as an online communications server that provides various online communications and social networking services including for example account services listing catalog services dynamic content management services delivery services content geotagging and timestamping services and notification services. Application servers may include an account server a listing catalog server a dynamic content management server a notification server and or a delivery server structured and arranged to provide such online communications and social networking services.

Application servers in some embodiments may further be implemented as an online ticket marketplace that provides various online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services including for example buying services selling services delivery services and payment services. Application servers may include a selling server a buying server a payment server and or a delivery server structured and arranged to provide such online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services.

Application servers in turn may be coupled to and capable of accessing one or more databases including a subscriber database an active events database and or a transaction database . Databases generally may store and maintain various types of information for use by application servers and may comprise or be implemented by various types of computer storage devices e.g. servers memory and or database structures e.g. relational object oriented hierarchical dimensional network in accordance with the described embodiments.

Continuing with an exemplary computer system suitable for implementing on one or more devices of the computing system in is depicted in block diagram format. In various implementations a device that includes computer system may comprise a personal computing device e.g. a smart or mobile phone a computing tablet a personal computer laptop wearable device PDA BLUETOOTH wireless technology device key FOB badge etc. that is capable of communicating with a network. A service provider and or a payment provider may utilize a network computing device e.g. a network server capable of communicating with the network. It should be appreciated that each of the devices utilized by users service providers and payment providers may be implemented as computer system in a manner as follows.

Computer system can include a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server a venue server an email server a social networking server other third party servers and or a payment provider server via a network. In various embodiments such as for many cellular telephone and other mobile device embodiments this transmission can be wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices over a network via a communication link . Again communication link can simply be a wireless communication form in some embodiments. Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory machine readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another. Modules described herein can be embodied in one or more computer readable media or be in communication with one or more processors to execute or process the steps described herein.

A computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through a communication link and a communication interface. Received program code may be executed by a processor as received and or stored in a disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Such software may be stored and or used at one or more locations along or throughout the system at client network based system or both. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing networks systems devices and numerous variations thereof can be used to implement a communication operation such as transmitting and receiving communications based on location such as location based communications across time.

In some embodiments a venue device such as venue device sometimes referred to herein as a venue server or a venue system can be present at each of a plurality of different venues e.g. stadiums theaters arenas amphitheaters buildings vacation spots or other venues . Venue device may provide information regarding user locations at the venue for example at a certain time or during a certain event. Venue device may further provide other information such as information regarding events at a particular venue and regarding seating and or other accommodations at that venue. In some embodiments venue device can provide the information to service provider server . Service provider server can receive information regarding user location events at various venues and seating and or other accommodations at the various venues from venue device from other sources or service provider server may have a database of user location information event information and venue information independent of any interaction with venue device . Service provider server may for example be an implementation of system of .

Venue device can be a system that includes one or more computers one or more servers one or more computing tablets one or more mobile devices communications equipment wireless transmitters or beacons and or other suitable computing equipment as examples. Venue device can have processing circuitry such as a processor and storage such as a memory . Venue device may according to some embodiments include one or more wireless beacons such as beacon and communications equipment such as communications module .

Processor can execute a software program stored in memory for providing information regarding user locations at the venue regarding events at the venue regarding seating at the venue and or other information for each event. Venue device can provide the information to service provider server and or to a user device such as user device .

A connection between user device and wireless beacon may be established with or without user input from a user. For example wireless beacon may broadcast a token such as a universally unique identifier UUID for reception by user device . User device may receive the token from wireless beacon e.g. when user device is in proximity to beacon . If user device acknowledges the UUID as identifying a known service or location user device may transmit an identifier corresponding to user device back to wireless beacon . User device may communicate with wireless beacon using as examples near field communications signals BLUETOOTH signals BLUETOOTH Low Energy signals radio signals infrared signals or other wireless communications signals. The identifier from user device may include be transmitted with concatenated with or otherwise bundled with the identifier received from wireless beacon .

Communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared BLUETOOTH wireless technology and near field communication NFC devices. Wireless beacon may utilize communications circuitry such as communication module to communicate with service provider server and or user device . In various embodiments wireless beacon may be operated by the venue by a service provider or by another service such as a payment provider.

Venue device can be disposed at the venue. However this is merely illustrative. If desired venue device can be disposed at a location other than the venue. Each venue can have a dedicated venue device or a plurality of different venues can share a common venue device . For example co owned venues can share a common venue device .

In some embodiments venue device can be omitted if service provider server has the information needed for determining user locations. For example service provider server may receive user location from user device that enables service provider server to provide communication based on the location. In an embodiment service provider server may receive a user location from user device to determine user location to a certain level of specificity such as a within section within a venue and optionally receive additional user location information from venue device when available to determine a more specific location such as a row or a seat or other area within the venue.

Third party servers such as third party server may include for example an email server that hosts email services e.g. an email account for the user or a social networking server. A user may use user device to access services hosted by one of third party servers such as sending storing and receiving emails or other electronic communications on an email account.

Service provider server may obtain user location information from third party servers for example by scraping emails in an email account that is hosted by a third party server . For example service provider server may determine from the user s email that the user purchased a ticket in a particular section row and seat at the venue and may determine in combination with real time location information for the user device of the user and or one or more wireless beacons at the venue that the user is at that seat row and section. However this is merely illustrative. If desired the location information for geotagging content from the user may be determined without additional third party or other information and or service provider server can gather and store location information directly from users of service provider server e.g. users who have previously purchased tickets using service provider server where service provider server provides ticket fulfillment services .

Third party server can be a computer a server a computing tablet or a mobile device as examples. Server can have processing circuitry such as a processor and storage such as a memory .

A processor on third party server can execute one or more software programs stored in memory for storing and routing emails or other communications such as social networking communications for the user. In one embodiment third party server can be omitted if service provider server has the information needed for determining user locations at the venue. For example service provider server may have a database of user device information and or purchases gathered from user device that helps determine the user location.

In certain embodiments service provider server may receive a user location from user device via a location API. The user device may utilize GPS cellular signals Wi Fi signals BLUETOOTH Low Energy BLUETOOTH LE signals NFC signals LTE Direct signals or a combination thereof to determine the user location. The user location may be accurate enough to determine for example the section in which a user is located. However in some situations supplemental user location information may be used to determine for example the seat location of the user. For example user device may be limited in determining the user location for example when the user is in an indoor building or in an area with weak or no cellular signals. In these or other situations service provider server may obtain user location information from venue server and or third party server to supplement user location information available from user device . In this way the user location may be determined with greater accuracy e.g. a particular seat location at a venue may be determined than may be determined using the user device alone for geotagging content to be stored in associated with the location

A user can use a device such as a user device to communicate with other users across time based on location by storing and or receiving electronic content sometimes referred to herein as a time capsule associated with the location. User device may be a mobile device such as a cellular telephone a tablet computer a laptop computer a wearable device or another portable computing device. User device may be a non mobile device such as a desktop computer an interactive set top box or the like. User device can be any device or combination of devices that facilitate online communication and social networking. User device may for example be an implementation of client device of .

User device may include a processor a memory a GPS a camera a microphone input output components e.g. a keyboard a touchscreen display etc. and or other suitable device components. Processor can execute an application such as an app that facilitates methods for location based communications across time as disclosed herein. App can be stored in memory . App can provide a graphical user interface GUI for the user when the user is transmitting and receiving communications. If desired app can be a dedicated communication and or social networking app. However this is merely illustrative. In some configurations app can be part of another app such as a Paypal Inc. payment provider app.

In various embodiments user may create and or capture content using camera microphone and or input output component . Camera may be used by user to capture a photograph or record a video. Microphone may be used to record a voice message or other sound recording. Input component such as a keyboard or touchscreen may be used by user to write a text message.

User device can communicate with venue device third party server and or service provider server via a network. For example user device can communicate with venue device third party server and or service provider server via the Internet . User device can communicate with the Internet via either a wired connection or a wireless connection.

Service provider server may be operated by an online communications and social networking service provider. Service provider server may also be operated by a ticket seller such as STUBHUB Inc. online ticket seller and provide ticket fulfillment services such as facilitating online ticket sales. In an embodiment Service provider server receives content e.g. a text a voice message a photograph an image a video or other content from a first user. Service provider server may also receive location and time information associated with the content. The location and time information may be included in the content based on geotagging and timestamping by user device . Service provider server may associate the content with one or more locations such as a section or a row at the venue based on user selection and or location information. Service provider server may subsequently determine that a second user is located in a location corresponding to the location associated with the content. Service provider server may provide access to the content to the second user while he or she in that location.

Service provider server may include processing circuitry such as a processor in communication with storage such as a memory . Processor can include one or more processors. Processor can access accounts such as a user account and or a venue account that are stored in memory . User account can include information regarding the user e.g. identification information preferences account numbers purchase history social network contacts email contacts email account permissions social media account permissions event related mementos purchased ticket event information attended event information etc. . Venue account can include information regarding the venue e.g. information regarding events seating venue location and other venue features . Memory can be separate from service provider server and can be used to store any number of user accounts and venue accounts . Memory can be distributed e.g. have portions thereof disposed at a plurality of different locations.

Service provider server may include one or more servers located at one or more locations. Thus service provider server can be geographically and operationally distributed if desired. Service provider server can be part of another system such as a payment provider system. Venue device and or third party server can communicate with service provider server over a wired or wireless connection such as via a network such as Internet . Venue device and or third party server can communicate with a plurality of different service provider servers . Service provider server can communicate with a plurality of different venue devices and or third party servers . A plurality of different service provider servers can communicate among themselves and can be considered herein as being the same as a single service provider server . The user can operate user device to interact with service provider server so that the user can communicate content information across time based on location online.

Service provider server can communicate with venue device to obtain information about the venue. For example service provider server can communicate with venue device to obtain information regarding the scheduling of events at the venue and regarding features of the venue. The features of the venue can be dependent upon the events of the venue e.g. the features of the venue can vary from event to event. Generally venue device mobile device third party server and service provider server can perform functions discussed herein. That is at least to some extent a function that is discussed herein as being performed via a particular one of these devices can be performed by a different one of these devices by a combination of these devices and or by other devices.

Venue device user device third party server other mobile devices and server can communicate with one another via a network such as the Internet or with one another via one or more networks such as local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs cellular telephone networks and the like. Venue device mobile devices such as user device third party server server and other devices can communicate with one another at least partially via one or more near field communications NFC methods or other short range communications methods such as infrared IR BLUETOOTH wireless technology Wi Fi and WiMax.

When a user wishes to access content created by previous visitors the user can open a service provider s website or can access the service provider using an application such as app . The user can open the service provider s website using user device for example. The service provider s website can be hosted on service provider server venue device or on any other server or device.

As shown in venue may include an attraction area and various locations for which a ticketholder may have purchased access such as seats or other restricted access sections of venue such as a general admission section a standing room only section a floor section or the like. Attraction area may be a court a field a stage a track a rink or any other suitable portion of a venue at which events can be conducted. Venue may include one or more concession areas such as concession stands e.g. a food service stand a team memorabilia store a drink stand or other vendor stand . Concession stands may be located in an aisle or elsewhere in venue .

Venue may include one or more communications systems such as a system of one or more wireless beacons . Beacons may be disposed at any suitable location within venue . For example a beacon may be located near concession stand within or adjacent to each section of venue within or adjacent to groups of sections within venue or on or within each seat within venue .

A user of a system of the type described in connection with for example e.g. an attendee of an event at venue may have a ticket for a particular seat such as seat . However the system may determine that the attendee is at a location such as user location sometimes referred to herein as an attendee location that is the same as or different from the location of the user s seat at any particular time during an event. User location may be a current location of the event attendee or a time averaged location of the event attendee as examples .

User location may be determined based on location information e.g. GPS information cellular signal information Wi Fi information BLUETOOTH Low Energy BLUETOOTH LE information NFC information LTE Direct information etc. from user device of the attendee and or communication between user device and one or more of wireless beacons . For example when user device is in communication with a particular one of beacons for a period of time user location may be determined to be in proximity to that beacon

User location may be determined to within an area corresponding to a section of venue a group of seats of venue e.g. within 8 rows of seats or within 25 seats or a single seat .

The user may use user device to create content to be stored in a virtual time capsule associated with a particular location e.g. a location in or near venue . The user may communicate to a person in the future via the virtual time capsule so that the user is speaking across the time lane i.e. across time . The content may be associated with the user s seat a group of seats e.g. within 5 seats of user s seat user location concession stand a section where the user is located and or the whole of venue . For example content that is related to the user s seat e.g. a message saying 1 sat in your seat in 2014 may be associated with seat content that is created while the user is away from seat e.g. a video of the event from location may be associated with user location and content relating to concession stand e.g. the hotdogs here taste bad may be associated with the location of concession stand . In this way the user may leave time capsules of content at various locations to be accessed by later visitors to those locations.

The user may be provided with content from earlier visitors to various locations at venue based on a location of user device as determined using an application such as app see . Location based content that may be provided to a system user such as an event attendee using user device of the attendee is described in further detail hereinafter in connection with for example . However first various operations for storing and providing access to time capsule content stored in connection with various locations are described in connection with .

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for communications across time based on location is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. A plurality of users may visit a location at various times. Earlier visitors to the location may create and store content to be accessed by later visitors to the location. Later visitors may view the stored content and may additionally create and store additional content to be accessed by even later visitors to the location. In this way a database of content can be stored for various locations. The database creates a record of events at that location and stores communications for future visitors regarding the record of events.

At step a first user arrives at the location and creates content using a first user device. The content may include a text based message an audio recording such as a voice message an image a photograph a video or other content. The first user device may be an implementation of user device . The first user for example decides to communicate the content to one or more unspecified future visitors.

At step the content is associated with a location and a time. In an embodiment the first user device associates a location with the content by geotagging the content with a user location determined using GPS such as GPS cellular signals Wi Fi signals BLUETOOTH Low Energy BLUETOOTH LE signals NFC signals LTE Direct signals or a combination thereof as examples . The first user device geotags the content by adding geographical information e.g. latitude and longitude coordinates an altitude distance accuracy data place names etc. as metadata to the content. The location associated with the content may include one or more levels of specificity ranging from the whole venue e.g. a stadium a building a city a park a lake a pond a campground an amusement park etc. to a specific place at the venue e.g. a section in a stadium a seat in a stadium or a room in a building .

In an embodiment the first user device associates a time with the content by timestamping the content with the time. The first user device may timestamp the content by adding time information e.g. a time at which the content was created accessed modified saved uploaded or downloaded as metadata to the content.

At step a service provider server may receive the content. In various embodiments service provider server may in response to receiving the content store the content in a database such as a storage module of service provider server .

In an embodiment service provider server receives the content together with the location and the time associated with the content from the first user device. In another embodiment service provider server receives the content and determines a location and a time to associate with the content. The time at which service provider server receives the content may be associated with the content as a received time. Service provider server may determine a seat number of the user at a venue and the seat number may be associated with the content as the location.

For example service provider server may receive the seat number from another source such as third party server or venue server . Third party server may determine a seat number by email scraping or social media account scraping as examples and venue server may access seating information in its database for a location of the seat having the seat number. In another example if service provider server also performs ticket fulfillment services it may access purchase history information in its database to determine a seat number of the user based on a ticket purchase by the user. In a further example the seat number may be provided by the user.

At step a second user arrives at or nearby the location associated with the content at a subsequent time.

At step service provider server receives a location of the second user from a second user device. The second user device may be an implementation of a user device such as user device . The second user device may determine a user location using GPS such as GPS cellular signals Wi Fi signals BLUETOOTH Low Energy BLUETOOTH LE signals NFC signals LTE Direct signals or a combination thereof as examples and may provide the determined location to service provider server . Service provider server may compare the received second user location to the locations associated with various stored content. In an embodiment a detection module of service provider server detects a location of the second user device such as by receiving location information from the second user device of the second user

At step when the second user is subsequently at or close to the location associated with the content service provider server may provide the content to the second user based on the location of the second user e.g. based on the comparison of the location of the second user with the locations of the stored content and or one or more criteria such as a search area criterion a time interval criterion an access area criterion and or a user interest criterion. For example service provider server may determine based on the comparison that the location of the second user e.g. the location of the second user device corresponds to the location associated with the stored content and provide the content to the second user device based on the determination that the location of the second user corresponds to the location associated with stored content. The second user may use the second user device to access and or receive the content from service provider server .

In an embodiment a determination module of service provider server may determine that the location of the second user device corresponds to the location associated with the stored content and or that one or more criteria are satisfied. A content access module of service provider server may then provide the content to the second user device based on the determination that the location of the second user device corresponds to the location associated with stored content and that the one or more criteria are satisfied.

In various embodiments the criteria may include a location related criterion provided by the second user such as a search area criterion. For example the second user may provide a search area as a criterion so that content having an associated location within the search area satisfies the criterion. In an example the second user may provide a broad search area that includes the whole venue e.g. a stadium or building in which the second user is located or a narrow search area that includes a part of the venue e.g. a section or a floor in which the second user is located. In another example the second user may provide a search area such as content having an associated location within a user specified distance e.g. one foot two feet five feet six feet ten feet ten yards one mile etc. from the location of the second user.

In other embodiments the criteria may include a time related criterion provided by the second user such as a time interval criterion. For example the second user may provide a time interval as a criterion such that content having an associated time within the time interval satisfies the criterion. In an example the second user may provide a certain time interval to service provider server . Service provider server may provide content having an associated time within the provided time interval. In another example a second user may desire to view content stored for the location between 2012 and 2014 or during the 2007 football season as examples .

In further embodiments the criteria may include a location related criterion provided by the first user such as an access area criterion. For example the first user may provide an access area in which the content is accessible such that only future visitors who are located within the access area are able to access the content. In an example service provider server may provide the first user with a list of areas that encompass the location of the first user e.g. a seat a row a section an area within a particular radius etc. and the first user may select on or more access areas. In another example the first user may specify the access area for example by drawing on a map of the venue. One or more access areas may be associated with the content.

The access area may include a whole venue e.g. a stadium a building etc. or a part of a venue e.g. a section or seat in a stadium a room in a building etc. . Service provider server may provide access to the content when the second user is within the access area. For example if the first user selects a broad area e.g. a stadium building etc. the second user may be anywhere within the broad area and be able to access the content information. If the first user selects a relatively smaller area e.g. a seat in a stadium a room in a building etc. the second user is able to access the content information only when he or she is within the relatively smaller area.

The access area may include a distance range centered on a location. For example the first user may select a range of 10 feet such that the access area is a circle with a radius of 10 feet of the location of the first user.

In some embodiments the criteria may include a location related criterion determined by service provider server . Service provider server may determine an access area in which the content is accessible such that only second users or any later users who are located within the access area are able to access the content. For example service provider server may determine an access area to be each venue e.g. a stadium theater building etc. such that only users within the venue are able to access content associated with the venue. If the second user is outside a venue he or she may be prevented from accessing content associated with a location within the venue. Thus only users who likely have a shared interest or connection as indicated by both users visiting the same location may view the content.

In another example service provider server may provide access only to content associated with a venue to users within the venue. Service provider server may accomplish this by limiting the search area to the venue for the second user. Thus if the second user provides a search area that is too wide such as 50 yards in a small restaurant only content associated with locations within the venue may be provided and not the content associated with a venue next door. Service provider server may apply various limitations and restrictions for access areas and search areas for each venue and the limitations may depend on the type of venue e.g. public vs. private .

In various embodiments the criteria may include a criterion based on information about the first user and the second user such as a user interest criterion that is based on interests of the users. The criterion based on user interest may be provided by service provider server . For example the user interest criteria may be based on a shared interest of the first user and the second user or relate to dissimilar interests of the first user and the second user. User interest and other information of the first and second user may be determined and or received by service provider server . Service provider server may determine user interest by accessing each user s user device or third party server . For example service provider server may access each user s search history purchase history social networks self entered interest etc.

In an embodiment service provider server may provide a criterion of shared interest related to the venue and or the event. For example service provider server may provide a shared interest criterion at a sports stadium such that only content of users who are a fan of the same sports team satisfy the criterion. If the second user is a fan of a certain team he or she may access content of the first user only if the first user is also a fan of the certain team.

In another embodiment service provider server may provide a criterion of shared interest independent of the venue and or the event. For example service provider server may provide a shared interest criterion at a sports stadium such that only content of users who have a shared interest other than sports for example wine satisfy the criterion. If the second user is interested in wine he or she may access content of the first user only if the first user is also interested in wine. Providing a shared interest criterion unrelated to the venue event may be advantageous because the first user and the second user likely share at least two interests one related to the venue event and one independent of the venue event.

In a further embodiment service provider server may provide a criterion of dissimilar interest related to the venue and or the event. For example service provider server may provide a dissimilar interest criterion at a sports stadium such that content of users who are a fan of a rival sports team do not satisfy the criteria and are excluded. If the second user is a fan of a certain team he or she may be prevented from accessing content provided by the first user if the first user is a fan of a rival team. Providing a dissimilar interest criterion may be advantageous in certain situations. For example at sports stadiums with rivalries among fans of rival teams providing for communications between fans of rival teams may be disruptive especially when fans get heated up by the game and preventing such communications may provide a more positive user experience.

At step the second user receives the content from service provider server . The second user may view the received content on the second user device. In an embodiment the content access module of service provider server may transmit the content to the second user device. In some embodiments the second user may respond to the first user by storing second content on service provider server as a response. The second stored content and the content stored by the first user may later be accessed by a third user a fourth user or any other user who visits the location. Each user who visits the location may also be provided with the ability to respond directly or by storing additional content to any previous user who has stored content associated with that location. In this way communication between users across time based on location may be provided.

Referring now to a flowchart showing a method that may be performed by for example service provider server to grant access to content based on a location is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

At block a first user creates content e.g. a text a voice message a photograph an image a video or other content and decides to communicate the content to future visitors of the location.

At block service provider server receives the content from a first user device. The content may include a location and a time associated with the content and or service provider server may determine a location and a time associated with the content. The service provider may store the received content along with the associated location and time of the content.

At block service provider server receives a location of a second user from a second user device. The second user device may determine user location using GPS cellular signals Wi Fi signals BLUETOOTH Low Energy BLUETOOTH LE signals NFC signals LTE Direct signals or a combination thereof.

At block service provider server may determine whether the second user is in an access area in which the content is accessible. The access area in which the content is accessible may be provided by the first user or determined by service provider server as for example described above in connection with step of .

At block if the second user is in an access area that is a venue e.g. a structure such as a stadium or a building service provider server grants access to content having an access area of the venue. The content having the access area of the venue may be content associated with the venue.

At block if the second user is in an access area that is a section within the venue service provider server grants access to content having an access area of that section. The content having the access area of the section may be content associated with the section.

At block if the second user is not in an access area with associated content such as an area outside the venue with no stored content or at a venue with no stored content service provider server does not grant access to content.

At block service provider server may transmit or otherwise provide the accessible content to the second user device at the request of the second user.

Referring now to a diagram of a user device having a case and a display that is being used to provide access to location based communications across time is illustrated according to an embodiment. In the example of device is a handheld device capable of being held in a hand such as hand of a user.

In an embodiment one or more first users create content at a venue such as a stadium and associate the content with an access area such as the stadium a section or a seat within the stadium or a location outside the stadium such as a parking spot or a park. The first users store the content on service provider server as a time capsule. When a second user third user or other subsequent user arrives at a location at the stadium the second user may receive content stored by the first users by for example interacting with displayed content choices associated with the subsequent user s location shown in display e.g. by clicking virtual buttons on the display . A list of available content may be provided to display the content choices at the subsequent user s location. Each button may be generated to represent distinct content stored by the first users and may contain a title the type of content e.g. text photo video etc. and the date it was created. The content represented by each of buttons may have an associated access area so each button may be listed under an associated access area heading . Buttons and their associated content may be provided on display only when the second user is within the access area associated with the content.

In the example of buttons that represent content with an access area of the whole stadium are listed under heading of Stadium buttons that represent content with an access area of the section in which the second user is located are listed under the heading of Your Section and buttons that represent content with an access area of the seat in which the second user is sitting are listed under the heading of Your Seat . The second user may be provided with a selectable View More link that when selected provides the second user with more content associated with the access area heading associated with that View More link.

In some embodiments service provider server may determine a specific seat in which the first user or second user is sitting based on accessing its own database or receiving information from third party server or venue server . For example if service provider server provides services such as ticket fulfillment services service provider server may access ticket sales history to determine which seat the user purchased. In another example service provider server may receive user location information from venue server based on wireless beacons . In another example service provider server may receive seating information for an event at the venue from third party server based on email scrapping.

Many of the examples described herein in connection with storing content associated with a location have been described in the context of event venues such as a stadium. However this is merely illustrative. It should be appreciated that users may store location content e.g. time capsules at any suitable location that may later be visited by another user. As one example users may store location content at or within an outdoor area or at or within a building such as building of .

A visitor of building may be located at a location such as a location in one of rooms . The visitor may store and or access content based on the user s location as described herein. For example a user may check into a hotel room and upon entry into the hotel room be provided with messages pictures and or other content provided by previous occupants of the hotel room. The user may provide additional messages photos or other content to be stored for future visitors and or to be provided to the past visitors that have previously stored content.

While at the building the locations of various visitors may be tracked. For example location may be determined using one or more wireless beacons located in or near the building and in communication with user device of the visitor and or using GPS coordinates from user device of the visitor. For example when GPS coordinates from user device are not able to determine which floor the visitor is located on within the building service provider server may receive user location information based on communications between the visitor s device and beacons from venue server . The visitor may then send content to service provider server that is associated with the determined user location and access content stored by previous visitors of the determined location.

In some embodiments the user may be located on or within a moving structure such as a train an airplane a bus or a cruise ship. In these embodiments the location associated with the stored content may be a combined location including a location on or within the structure and the location of the moving structure. For example a traveler staying in a particular room on a cruise ship may capture an image of a particular geographical feature such as a glacier from the window in that room when the ship is within view of the geographical feature. The user may provide the image for storage for future guests in that particular room. However the image of the geographical feature may only be provided to the future guests when the ship is again in view of that geographical feature.

Referring now to an embodiment of a service provider server or device is illustrated. Service provider server includes a communication module that is coupled to a network such as Internet and to any or all of a detection module a determination module and a content access module any of which may be coupled to a database or other non transitory memory such as storage module . Any or all of modules and may be implemented as a subsystem of system provider server including for example a circuit a hardware component a hardware subcomponent and or a variety of other subsystems known in the art. Furthermore any or all of modules and may be preconfigured to perform their disclosed functionality or may be configured by a processing system on the fly or as needed to perform their disclosed functionality. As such any or all of modules and may include pre configured and dedicated circuits and or hardware components of system provider server or may be circuits and or hardware components that are configured as needed.

For example any or all of modules and may be provided via one or more circuits that include resistors inductors capacitors voltage sources current sources switches logic gates registers and or a variety of other circuit elements known in the art. One or more of the circuit elements in a circuit may be configured to provide the circuit s that cause modules and or to perform the functions described above. As such in some embodiments preconfigured and dedicated circuits may be implemented to perform the functions of modules and or . In other embodiments a processing system may execute instructions on a non transitory computer readable medium to configure one or more circuits as needed to perform the functions of modules and or

Communication module may be included as a separate module provided in service provider server or may be provided using instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processing system in service provider server configure communication module to send and receive information over network as well as provide any of the other functionality that is discussed above.

Storage module may store content associated with a first location in response to receiving the content from a first user device of a first user as well as store any other content that is discussed above.

Detection module may be included as a separate module provided in service provider server or may be provided using instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processing system in service provider server configure detection module to detect that a second user device of a second user is located at a second location as well as provide any of the other functionality that is discussed above. In an embodiment detection module detects the first location and or the second location based on a communication between a wireless beacon at a venue and the first user device and or the second user device. In another embodiment the first location may be a seat location of the first user and or the second location may be a seat location of the second user and the detection module determines the first location and or the second location based on scraping an email account of the first user and or the second user.

Determination module may be included as a separate module provided in service provider server or may be provided using instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processing system in service provider server configure determination module to determine that the second location corresponds to the first location and or that one or more criteria are satisfied as well as provide any of the other functionality discussed above. The one or more criteria may include for example a search area criterion a time interval criterion an access area criterion and or a user interest criterion.

Content access module may be included as a separate module provided in service provider server or may be provided using instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processing system in service provider server configure content access module to provide the content to the second user device over network based on the determination that the second location corresponds to the first location and that the one or more criteria are satisfied as well as provide any of the other functionality discussed above. Content access module may also provide a list of available content associated with the second location at a venue to the second user device which may be displayed as a list of buttons as illustrated in .

In an embodiment determination module may determine in response to receiving a time interval from the second user device whether the time is within the time interval. Content access module may provide the content to the second user device based on the determination that the second location corresponds to the first location and based on the determination of whether the time is within the time interval.

In another embodiment determination module may determine in response to receiving a search area from the second user device whether the first location is within the search area. Content access module may provide the content to the second user device based on the determination that the second location corresponds to the first location and based on the determination of whether the first location is within the search area.

In a further embodiment determination module may determine in response to receiving an access area from the first user device whether the second location is within the access area. Content access module may provide the content to the second user device based on the determination that the second location corresponds to the first location and based on the determination of whether the second location is within the access area.

In some embodiment determination module may determine user interests of the first user and the second user and determine whether the first user and the second user have a shared interest. Content access module may provide the content to the second user device based on the determination that the second location corresponds to the first location and based on the determination of whether the first user and the second user have the shared interest.

In various embodiments storage module may store second content associated with the second location in response to receiving the second content from the second user device. Content access module may provide the second content to the first user device or a third user device. For example determination module may determine in response to receiving a third location of a third user device that the third location corresponds to the first location or the second location and that the one or more criteria are satisfied and content access module may provide the second content to the third user device based on the determination that the third location corresponds to the first location or the second location and the satisfaction of the one or more criteria.

Other modules not illustrated in may be provided as separate modules on service provider server or using instructions stored on a computer readable medium to provide any of the other functionality discussed above. While storage module has been illustrated as located in service provider server one of skill in the art will recognize that it may include multiple storage modules and may be connected to modules through network without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity and understanding it will be recognized that the above described invention may be embodied in numerous other specific variations and embodiments without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics of the invention. Various changes and modifications may be practiced and it is understood that the invention is not to be limited by the foregoing details but rather is to be defined by the scope of the claims.

