---

title: System, method and medium for social network information feed in-line purchasing by image recognition
abstract: Embodiments described herein disclose a system and method for providing an improved user experience for purchasing a product within an information feed. An information feed is displayed which includes an information post having a product link or otherwise referencing a product. A selection of the product link or the referenced product is received, and product information for a product associated with the product link or referenced product is retrieved. The product information and a purchase selector are displayed within the information feed, in association with the information post. A selection of the purchase selector is received. User payment information is retrieved and displayed in association with the information post in the information feed. User payment information is transmitted, based on a received confirmation from a user. The purchase is then executed, and a confirmation message may be displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09489700&OS=09489700&RS=09489700
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09489700
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140214
---
The present application claims priority to and incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 765 210 filed on Feb. 15 2013.

The present disclosure generally relates to online and or mobile payments and more particularly to making online and or mobile purchases within an information feed.

More and more consumers are purchasing items and services over electronic networks such as for example the Internet. Consumers routinely purchase products and services from merchants and individuals alike. The transactions may take place directly between a conventional or on line merchant or retailer and the consumer and payment is typically made by entering credit card or other financial information. Transactions may also take place with the aid of an on line or mobile payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. Such payment service providers can make transactions easier and safer for the parties involved. Purchasing with the assistance of a payment service provider from the convenience of virtually anywhere using a mobile device is one main reason why on line and mobile purchases are growing very quickly.

Additionally many consumers presently utilize information feeds such as Twitter feeds and feeds provided by other social networking services and or websites to access rapidly updated information from individual Tweets or information posts in an information feed. Information posts may be posted by friends colleagues organizations companies and or other parties known in the art. An individual user may follow other users to access and view a customized collection of such information posts as the user s information feed. Often information posts include information regarding a product that is available for purchase. To purchase a product mentioned in an information post on an information feed a user typically clicks on a hyperlink in the information post to launch a web browser application that is directed to a merchant website of a merchant selling the product or searches for a merchant website that sells the product using a search engine. The user can then utilize the merchant website through the web browser to purchase the product. The need to launch a web browser application to access the merchant website or search for that merchant website in order to buy the product is time consuming and bothersome for the consumer and may lead to lost sales for the merchant.

Thus there is a need for an improved system and method for purchasing products referenced in information posts displayed in an information feed.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure provides a system and method for providing an improved user experience for purchasing a product within an information feed. An information feed is displayed which includes an information post having a product link or otherwise referencing a product. A selection of the product link or the referenced product is received and product information for a product associated with the product link or referenced product is retrieved. The product information and a purchase selector are displayed within the information feed in association with the information post e.g. such that the product information and purchase selector appear to be an extension of related to or otherwise part of the information post . A selection of the purchase selector is received. User payment information may then be retrieved and displayed in association with the information post in the information feed. User payment information is then transmitted based on a received confirmation from a user. The purchase is then executed and a confirmation message may be displayed in association with the information post in the information feed. As such a user may execute a purchase of a product referenced in an information post of their information feed in a manner that is in line with that information feed rather than having to launch a web browser application or other application to access or search for a merchant website that sells that product.

Referring now to an embodiment of a method for making purchases within an information feed is illustrated. In the embodiments and examples discussed below a Twitter feed is used as an example of an information feed. However other information feeds are also possible such as Facebook news feeds a Foursquare feed an Instagram feed a Rich Site Summary Really Simple Syndication RSS feed and or a wide variety of other types of information feeds known in the art.

In some embodiments an information feed provider such as a social networking service provider may provide a purchasing system that allows users accessing the information feed to purchase products based on those products inclusion in an information post in the information feed. For example the information feed provider may provide an application programming interface API that allows payment service providers payment account providers and or merchants to receive and transmit information via the information feed provider. As such the payment service providers payment account providers and or merchants may receive requests for product information and or payment information and may transmit product information and payment information to the user through the information feed provider. Similarly the payment service providers payment account providers and or merchants may receive payment information from a user to purchase a product through the information feed provider. Thus the systems and methods discussed below may be performed through coordinated actions by an information feed provider a payment service provider a payment account provider and or a merchant. In other embodiments a third party system provider may operate between the information feed provider and the payment service provider payment account provider and or merchant to transfer the information necessary to perform the method discussed below. While a few examples have been provided one of skill in the art in possession of the present disclosure will recognize that that systems and methods may be enabled by the actions of one or more of any of the entities discussed above while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure.

The method begins at block where an information feed is displayed that includes an information post having a product link and or a reference to a product. Referring first to a payer device includes a display displaying an information feed screen that includes an information feed having a plurality of information posts and

An information feed provider may allow a user to follow other users to receive messages or other information posts that are posted by those users of the information feed provider. Users may register with an information feed provider and select other user accounts to follow which allows the user to view messages or other information posts that are posted by other users. Users can utilize an information feed provider website to compose and submit information posts which can then be accessed by those other users who follow that user. Users can also use a separate application provided by the information feed provider or an application provided by another party which is configured to send and receive information posts to and from and or otherwise access the information feed provider. Information posts may include only text such as information posts and . Information posts may also include hyperlinks to websites such as information post which includes a hyperlink to an airline website. Information posts may also include hyperlinks to multimedia content such as pictures audio or video. Information posts may also include hyperlinks to products or product information on a merchant website. For example information post includes the user s text I just bought this great pair of shoes along with a product link to the pair of shoes on a merchant s website. Information post may be created by the user himself or herself or the merchant s website may provide a pre generated message for posting or communicating by the user. In the embodiments illustrated and discussed below the term product is used to reference items offered for sale by a merchant or other seller. However product is not meant to be limited to items but is meant to encompass services donations and or any other situation that involves the transfer of funds from the user to another party.

In the example illustrated in the user of payer device may be following the users who composed and submitted information posts . The information feed may update automatically or on demand. For example if a user submits a new information post the new information post may appear at the top of information feed and the older information posts may move down the information feed . Information posts may be displayed to all other users who follow a specific user. Additionally a user may address individual information posts to one or more specific users.

As personal recommendations often strongly influence other consumers to purchase similar goods the user of payer device browsing his or her information feed may also be interested in purchasing a product e.g. the same pair of shoes as user AmySmith123 referenced in information post . Thus in one embodiment the user of payer device may select for example by mouse click or touch event on a touch screen the information post to receive additional information about the product referenced by that information post . For example in the illustrated embodiment the user may select the product link in the information post . In another example rather than the product link the information post may simply reference a product in a text post e.g. I just bought Brand X shoes or an image post e.g. an image of Brand X shoes and that product reference may be recognized by the information feed provider and or other system provider and provided in the information post as a selectable link. As such the information feed provider or other system provider may include systems for analyzing information posts recognizing text image or other product references in the information posts and converting those product references to a selectable link in the information posts.

The method then proceeds to block where a selection of the product is received and product information for a product associated with that product is retrieved. In an embodiment the user may select the product link or the selectable product reference and in response the user device operates to retrieve over a network product information for a product associated with the product link or referenced product. In one embodiment product information may be retrieved by the information feed provider or other system provider from the website of a merchant providing the product or from a merchant device of the merchant providing the product. In one embodiment the product information may be retrieved from an information feed provider database. For example the information feed provider may store product information or it may retrieve product information from the website of a merchant providing the product and format the product information for presentation in an information feed. In one embodiment the product information may also be retrieved from a payment service provider database.

Referring now to the method then proceeds to block where the product information and a purchase selector are displayed in association with the information post in the information feed. In one embodiment product information is displayed in line with the information post such that the product information is provided within the information feed . For example in the example of the product information and purchase selector are displayed directly below the original information post and within the information feed as part of the information post . The product information may be displayed in one embodiment as a product card . In the illustrated embodiment the product card may be rendered as an extension part of an information feed provider s API. In one embodiment the product information may be displayed as a webpage rendered within the information feed with a stylesheet or other formatting consistent with the remainder of the information feed . In one embodiment the product information may be displayed in an inline frame in the information feed and the appearance of the product information may be as the product information appears on the merchant s website.

In one embodiment the information displayed in association with the information post in the information feed may include information received from the merchant regarding inventory information. For example Low inventory or Six pairs left may be displayed. If sufficient inventory is not available in one embodiment the user may be permitted to place an order for the item to be shipped when the item comes back in stock. In one embodiment if sufficient inventory is not available an option to purchase the product i.e. the Purchase button is not displayed and only information regarding the product is displayed. Such inventory information may be retrieved from a merchant device.

In one embodiment the information displayed in association with the information post in the information feed may include one or more selections that allow the user to choose a size color or other particular characteristic of the item being purchased. For example in the illustrated embodiment the item being purchased is a pair of shoes and selectors for a color and size of the shoes are provided for selection by the user.

The method then proceeds to block where a selection of the purchase selector is received. The selection of the purchase selector may be based on for example a user mouse click or touch screen input event on the purchase selector . The method then proceeds to decision block where a determination is made as to whether the user is authenticated. In an embodiment of decision block the information feed provider device or other system provider devices makes a determination as to whether the user is currently authenticated with a payment service provider a payment account provider and or other payment entity known in the art. In some embodiments a user may be determined to be authenticated with a payment entity by virtue of being authenticated with the information feed provider or other system provider e.g. through a linked authentication with the payment entity . In some embodiments a user may be determined to be authenticated with a payment entity by virtue of authentication credentials stored by user device an information feed provider device or other system provider device. If the user is determined at decision block to be authenticated the method then proceeds to block .

Referring now to at block user payment information is retrieved and displayed. In an embodiment the information feed provider device or other system provider device may retrieve the user payment information over a network from a payment service provider device or payment account provider device. As shown in the user payment information is displayed in association with the information post and within the information feed . In one embodiment user payment information may include but is not limited to payment information such as a payment method e.g. credit card number expiration date etc. a payment amount including sales tax shipping charges handling charges and other applicable charges which may be itemized or displayed as a sum total a shipping address a billing address and any other information related to the purchase of the product. In one embodiment at block a Confirm selector as shown in is also displayed with user payment information.

In one embodiment the user payment information may be received from a payment provider service over a network based on the user s successful previous authentication with the payment provider service. In one embodiment user payment information may include a user s default payment information established through a payment provider service. In one embodiment the user may be provided a drop down or other selection box to change the payment information. User payment information may include information related to various payment methods which may include credit card information payment service provider account information a Bill Me Later service provided by PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. debit card information and or information related to any other payment methods known in the art. In some embodiments merchants may limit the types of payment methods that they will accept and the payment information retrieved at block may be confirmed as acceptable by the merchant at block .

Upon a user selection of the confirm selector the method proceeds to block where the confirmation selection is transmitted. In one embodiment the confirmation selection may be transmitted to a payment service provider or payment account provider device. In one embodiment the confirmation selection may be transmitted to the merchant device. Additionally or alternatively the confirmation selection or another message may be transmitted from the payment service provider to the merchant device. In one embodiment transmittal of the confirmation selection may also include transmission of user payment information. For example if the user has changed payment information for a particular transaction from the user s default payment information such changed payment information may be transmitted upon user selection of the Confirm selector .

Referring now to once the confirmation selection is transmitted the method proceeds to block where the purchase is executed and a confirmation message is displayed in association with the information post in the information feed. Executing the purchase may include for example debiting a user s bank account or charging a user s credit card based on the user payment information and may be performed in one embodiment by a payment provider device and or payment account provider device. Executing the purchase may also include recording a transaction with an account provider device such as a credit card account provider device. Further executing the purchase may also include recording the transaction or performing other processing tasks by the merchant device. Thus for example the ordered product may be dispatched for shipping and the purchase may be recorded in a reporting database of the merchant. Further as shown in and with reference to the additional information e.g. the product information and billing information in displayed in association with the information post in the information feed may be removed and the user s information feed may be displayed as before the selection of the product but with the inclusion of the confirmation message as part of the information post

If at decision block the user is not authenticated the method proceeds to decision block . At decision block a determination is made by the information feed provider device or other system provider device as to whether authentication is required. For example certain merchants may require registration and authentication with a payment service provider or payment account provider before purchasing a product to reduce fraudulent transactions or due to commercial relationships between merchants and payment service providers.

Referring now to if authentication is required the method proceeds to block . At block user authentication information is requested. The user authentication information is requested by the information feed provider device or other system provider device in association with the information post in the information feed . For example as shown in input boxes and for a username and password respectively of a payment service provider or payment account provider may be displayed below the information post and within the information feed and the user may enter his or her username and password and select the Submit button to be authenticated with a payment service provider or payment account provider. The authentication information may be transmitted over a network to the payment service provider or payment account provider. Following the transmission of user authentication information the method proceeds to decision block where it is determined whether the authentication with the payment service provider or payment account provider was successful. As is known in the art a payment service provider and or payment account provider may transmit an authentication confirmation in response to receiving user authentication information. In some embodiments the payment service provider or payment account provider may actually provide the input boxes and in the information feed at block in order to authenticate the user and then inform the information feed provider or other system provider if that authentication was successful. If the information feed provider or other system provider determines that the user s authentication with the payment service provider or payment account provider is successful the method proceeds to blocks and to operate substantially as described above. If authentication with the payment service provider is not successful the method may return to block and the user may be provided an additional opportunity or additional opportunities to enter authentication information.

Referring now to if authentication with a payment service provider is not required the method proceeds to block . At block user payment information may be requested from the user. In some examples the user payment information may be requested as discussed below by the information feed provider device the payment service provider device a payment account provider device a merchant device or other system provider device. As such the information feed provider may provide access to the information feed to other entities e.g. the payment service provider device a payment account provider device a merchant device to retrieve user payer information. The user payment information may be requested in association with the information post in the information feed. For example as shown in an account number and billing name and address may be requested from a user using input boxes and . Other user payment information may also or alternatively be requested such as a credit card number and expiration date bank routing and account number or any other payment information. A Confirm button or selector may also be displayed. Upon selection of the Confirm button or selector the method proceeds to block where the user payment information is transmitted. As described above user payment information may be transmitted to a payment service provider a payment account provider a merchant and or other system provider devices. Referring now to the method then proceeds to block as described above where the purchase may be executed and a confirmation message displayed. In some embodiments in which the user does not have an account with the payment service provider merchant or other system provider after the purchase is executed and the confirmation message is displayed the user may be provided an option to create an account with the payment service provider merchant or other system provider with the information used to make the purchase during the method .

As described herein the process of purchasing the product including the display of product information retrieval of user payment information and the completion of the purchase itself may occur with the involvement or assistance of a merchant. Accordingly the merchant remains the merchant of record and thus the merchant can accurately track products sold for reporting inventory management and other tasks.

In one embodiment a user of the information feed provider may be compensated for mentioning a product in an information post. As one example the product link included in the information post posted by the user may include additional information identifying the user posting the information post. If a transaction is successfully completed based on the product link posted by the user in the information post an account of the user s for example the user s account with the merchant may be credited a certain amount to provide an incentive to the user to post similar information posts. If the user s information post is subsequently re posted by other users e.g. retweeted the user may be credited for purchases that arise as a result of such re posting.

Thus systems and methods have been described that provide for purchases of products to be conducted completely in line with a user s information feed. A product reference to a product in an information post provided in an information feed is provided or made selectable by a user of that information feed to have information about that product displayed in association with that information post information feed and allows that user to select that product for purchase without leaving that information feed. Furthermore from the user s perspective every aspect of the purchase of that product may be completed within the information feed including provision of and or review of user payment information confirmation of the purchase and or variety of other purchasing aspects known in the art. As such purchases of products references in an information post on an information feed no longer require the user to open a separate web browser application or navigate to a separate website in order to purchase a product referenced in the information feed.

Referring now to an embodiment of a network based system for implementing one or more processes described herein is illustrated. As shown network based system may comprise or implement a plurality of servers and or software components that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary servers may include for example stand alone and enterprise class servers operating a server OS such as a MICROSOFT OS a UNIX OS a LINUX OS or other suitable server based OS. It can be appreciated that the servers illustrated in may be deployed in other ways and that the operations performed and or the services provided by such servers may be combined or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of servers. One or more servers may be operated and or maintained by the same or different entities.

The embodiment of the networked system illustrated in includes a plurality of payer devices a plurality of merchant devices a payment service provider device an account provider devices a system provider device and or an information feed provider device in communication over a network . Any of the payer devices may be the payer device operated by the users discussed above. The merchant devices may be the merchant devices discussed above and may be operated by the merchants discussed above. The payment service provider device may be the payment service provider devices discussed above and may be operated by a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. The account provider devices may be the account provider devices discussed above and may be operated by the account providers discussed above such as for example credit card account providers bank account providers savings account providers and a variety of other account providers known in the art. The system provider device may be the system provider devices discussed above and may be operated by the system providers discussed above. The information feed provider devices may be information feed provider devices discussed above and may be operated by the information feed providers discussed above.

The payer devices merchant devices payment service provider device account provider device system provider device and or information feed provider device may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable mediums such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of the system and or accessible over the network .

The network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

The payer device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the payer device may be implemented as a personal computer of a user in communication with the Internet. In other embodiments the payer device may be a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices.

The payer device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit the payer to browse information available over the network . For example in one embodiment the browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet.

The payer device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide user side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by the payer. In one embodiment the toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with the browser application.

The payer device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to the payer device . In particular the other applications may include a payment application for payments assisted by a payment service provider through the payment service provider device . The other applications may also include security applications for implementing user side security features programmatic user applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or other types of applications. Email and or text applications may also be included which allow the payer to send and receive emails and or text messages through the network . Information feed provider applications may also be included which allow the payer or user to access an information feed provider as discussed herein. The payer device includes one or more user and or device identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the browser application identifiers associated with hardware of the payer device or other appropriate identifiers such as a phone number. In one embodiment the user identifier may be used by the payment service provider device and or account provider device to associate the user with a particular account as further described herein. In one embodiment the user identifier may be used to view information posts as described herein.

The merchant device may be maintained for example by a conventional or on line merchant conventional or digital goods seller individual seller and or application developer offering various products and or services in exchange for payment to be received conventionally or over the network . In this regard the merchant device may include a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by the payer.

The merchant device also includes a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by the payer of items. The checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from the user through the payer device the account provider through the account provider device and or from the payment service provider through the payment service provider device over the network .

Referring now to an embodiment of a payer device is illustrated. The payer device may be the payer devices and or . The payer device includes a chassis having a display and an input device including the display and a plurality of input buttons . The payer device further includes a camera and one or more audio input output devices e.g. microphones speakers . One of skill in the art will recognize that the payer device is a portable or mobile phone including a touch screen input device and a plurality of input buttons that allow the functionality discussed above with reference to the method . However a variety of other portable mobile payer devices and or desktop payer devices may be used in the method without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to a further embodiment of a payer device is illustrated. The payer device may be the payer devices and or . The payer device includes a chassis having a display and an input device including the display . The payer device may also include an input button and one or more audio input output device e.g. microphones speakers . One of skill in the art will recognize that the payer device is a portable or mobile table device including a touch screen input device and a plurality of input buttons that allow the functionality discussed above with reference to the method . However a variety of other portable mobile payer devices and or desktop payer devices may be used in the method without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an embodiment of a computer system suitable for implementing for example the payer device the payer device the payer device the payer device the merchant devices the payment service provider device the account provider device the system provider device and or the information feed provider device is illustrated. It should be appreciated that other devices utilized by payers merchants payment service providers account providers system providers and information feed providers in the system discussed above may be implemented as the computer system in a manner as follows.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard keypad or virtual keyboard a cursor control component e.g. mouse pointer or trackball a location determination component e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device as illustrated a cell tower triangulation device and or a variety of other location determination devices known in the art and or a camera device . In one implementation the disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure the computer system performs specific operations by the processor executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in the memory component such as described herein with respect to the payer devices and the merchant device s the payment service provider device the account provider device s the system provider device and or the information feed provider device . Such instructions may be read into the system memory component from another computer readable medium such as the static storage component or the disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as the disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as the system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise the bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read. In one embodiment the computer readable media is non transitory.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by the computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of the computer systems coupled by a communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

The computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through the communication link and the network interface component . The network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via the communication link . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Referring now to an embodiment of a system provider device is illustrated. In an embodiment the device may be the information feed provider device and or the system provider device discussed above. The device includes a communication engine that is coupled to the network and to an information feed product purchasing engine that is coupled to a database . The communication engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that allows the device to send and receive information over the network . The information feed product purchasing engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that is operable to display an information feed including an information post that references a product receive a selection of the reference product retrieve product information for the selected product display the product information in association with the information post in the information feed receive a selection of a purchase selector determine whether a user is authenticated retrieve and display user payment information in association with an information post in an information feed transmit confirmation and user payment information execute a purchase display a confirmation in association with an information post in an information feed determine whether user authentication is required request user authentication in association with an information post in an information feed determine whether authentication is successful request user payment information in association with an information post in an information feed transmit user payment information and or provide any of the other functionality that is discussed above. While the database has been illustrated as located in the payment provider device one of skill in the art will recognize that it may be connected to the information feed product purchasing engine through the network without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example the above embodiments have focused on merchants and payers however a payer or consumer can pay or otherwise interact with any type of recipient including charities and individuals. The payment does not have to involve a purchase but may be a loan a charitable contribution a gift etc. Thus payee as used herein can also include charities individuals and any other entity or person receiving a payment from a payer. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

