---

title: COremoval sorbent composition with high chemical stability during multiple cycles
abstract: Disclosed herein is a clay-alkali-amine COsorbent composition prepared by integrating a clay substrate, basic alkali salt, and amine liquid. The basic alkali salt is present relative to the clay substrate in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 50 parts per 100 parts of the clay substrate. The amine liquid is present relative to a clay-alkali combination in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 10 parts per 10 parts of the clay-alkali combination. The clay-alkali-amine C02 sorbent is particularly advantageous for low temperature COremoval cycles in a gas stream having a C02 concentration less than around 2000 ppm and an oxygen concentration around 21%, such as air.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09138683&OS=09138683&RS=09138683
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 09138683
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140606
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 867 192 filed a on Apr. 22 2013 now allowed by the same inventors the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory and pursuant to Contract Research and Development Agreement CRADA No. AGMT 0255.

One or more embodiments of the present invention relates to a solid sorbent composition for the sorption of COfrom a gaseous stream where the solid sorbent is comprised of a clay substrate a basic alkali salt and an amine liquid.

COabsorption processes using aqueous amine solutions facilitate the removal of COfrom gas streams in many industries. A common process is known as wet chemical stripping where one or more reversible chemical reactions between COand amine substances produce liquid species such as carbamate. The conversion of carbamate back to COproceeds through a thermal regeneration process typically at a temperature of about 120 C. As a result the process is energy intensive. Additionally the amine solution has a limited lifetime due to amine oxidation and amine solutions may exacerbate carrion problems of associated process equipment.

To mitigate these issues solid sorbents serve as alternatives to wet chemical stripping via the formation of carbamate species. Important considerations include the ability to regenerate an absorbent and the ease of its regeneration and multiple solid COsorbents exist. Efforts have been made to reversibly adsorb COon silica gel modified with amine. See U.S. Pat. No. 5 087 597 to Leal et al. issued Feb. 11 1992. Methods have also been disclosed for incorporating liquid amines onto the surface of support substrates having relatively high surface areas. See U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 876 488 and 5 492 683 to Birbara et al. issued Mar. 2 1999 and Feb. 20 1996 respectively and see U.S. Pat. No. 4 810 266 to Zinnen et al. issued Mar. 7 1989. Amines have also been distributed within the interlayers of clay substrates. See U.S. Pat. No. 6 908 497 to Siriwardane issued Jun. 21 2005.

The effective lifetime of these solid sorbents is impacted by amine oxidation in environments where the oxygen concentration is substantial. The interaction of amine with oxygen is known to degrade the amines. See e.g. Lepaumier et al. new Amines for CO2 Capture. II Oxidative Degradation Mechanisms Industrial engineering Chemistry Research 48 20 2009 among others.

Since air contains 21 oxygen air degradation is a significant concern. Correspondingly it would be advantageous to provide a solid sorbent composition offering increased resistance to oxygen degradation over those currently offered. Additionally since the degradation mechanism with oxygen is reported to have acidic intermediates it would be advantageous to provide a method by which the acidic intermediate formation could be minimized through inclusion of a relatively inexpensive material such as an alkali.

Disclosed here is a composition of a clay alkali amine COsorbent exhibiting an increased effective lifetime in environments having substantial oxygen concentrations. The clay alkali amine COsorbent is an integration of a clay substrate a basic alkali salt and an amine liquid. The clay substrate serves as a plurality of internally situated reaction sites while the basic alkali salt acts as a strong base to generate a high pH environment. The basic alkali salt greatly mitigates oxygen degradation of the amine and significantly prolongs the useful life of the clay alkali amine COsorbent. The clay alkali amine COsorbent is particularly effective for low temperature COremoval cycles from air COhaving a COconcentration less than around 1 and an oxygen concentration around 21 .

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The sorbent disclosed provides a clay alkali amine COsorbent generated through the integration of a clay substrate a basic alkali salt and an amine liquid. The clay substrate generally serves as a plurality of internally situated reaction sites while the basic alkali salt acts as a strong base in order to generate a high pH environment. The effect of the basic alkali salt greatly mitigates oxygen degradation of the amine and significantly prolongs the useful life of the clay alkali amine COsorbent.

In a particular embodiment the clay substrate is supplied as a plurality of clay substrate granules and the basic alkali salt is supplied as a plurality of basic alkali salt granules and the clay alkali amine COsorbent is produced by initially generating a solid solid heterogeneous mixture of the clay substrate and the basic alkali salt. A limited quantity of liquid such as water may be added to the solid solid heterogeneous mixture in order to form porous clay alkali pellets. The solid solid heterogeneous mixture is then combined with the amine liquid to produce the clay alkali amine COsorbent.

The clay alkali amine COsorbent is prepared by mixing the clay substrate the basic alkali salt and the amine liquid. The basic alkali salt is present relative to the clay substrate in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 50 parts per 100 parts of the clay substrate. The amine liquid is present relative to the clay alkali combination in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 10 parts per 10 parts of the clay alkali combination.

The clay substrate is an aluminum phyllosilicate having a layered structure expanded by polar molecules. The cation of the basic alkali salt is comprised of Na K Li Rb Cs Ca Ba or Sr and the anion could be a hydroxide carbonate acetate phosphate or oxide. The liquid amine is comprised of a primary amine a secondary amine a tertiary amine an aromatic amine a cyclic amine or combinations thereof. In one embodiment the clay substrate is bentonite the basic alkali salt is NaOH or NaCO and the amine liquid is a diethanolamine DEA solution.

In another embodiment the clay substrate is supplied as a plurality of porous clay pellets and the basic alkali salt is supplied as an alkali solution. In this embodiment an amine alkali liquid is generated by blending the liquid amine the alkali solution and a solvent and the porous clay pellets are contacted with the amine alkali liquid allowing the amine alkali liquid to penetrate the porous clay pellets. The clay alkali amine COsorbent thus produced may be additionally subjected to a drying step.

Results are presented illustrating the performance of the clay alkali amine COsorbent generated by the disclosed methods as compared to a clay amine sorbent lacking the alkali inclusion.

The clay alkali amine COsorbent is particularly advantageous for low temperature COremoval cycles where COis present at ppm levels and where oxygen concentrations are increased. For example the clay alkali amine sorbent is particularly useful for low temperature COremoval cycles when the gas stream is air CO having a COconcentration less than around 2000 ppm and an oxygen concentration generally around 21 .

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide a clay alkali amine COsorbent composition produced by the integration of a clay substrate a basic alkali salt and an amine liquid.

The composition disclosed provides a clay alkali amine COsorbent comprised of a clay substrate a basic alkali salt and an amine liquid. The clay alkali amine COsorbent may be utilized for the capture of COfrom a gas stream. The clay substrate generally serves as a plurality of internally situated reaction sites to facilitate reaction of the amines in the amine liquid with the CO and the basic alkali salt acts as a strong base which possibly absorbs H0 from the gas stream and generates a high pH environment. The effect of the basic alkali salt tends to greatly mitigate oxygen degradation of the amine and significantly prolong the useful life of the clay alkali amine COsorbent. The clay alkali amine COsorbent is particularly advantageous for low temperature COremoval cycles where COis present at ppm levels and where oxygen concentrations are increased. For example the clay alkali amine sorbent produces is particularly useful for low temperature COremoval cycles when the gas stream is air having a COconcentration less than around 2000 ppm and an oxygen concentration generally around 21 .

The clay alkali amine COsorbent is prepared by mixing the clay substrate the basic alkali salt and the amine liquid. The basic alkali salt is present relative to the clay substrate in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 50 parts per 100 parts of the clay substrate. The amine liquid is present relative to the clay alkali combination in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 10 parts per 10 parts of the clay alkali combination.

The clay alkali amine COsorbent in the form of a pellet is illustrated at . At clay alkali amine COsorbent pellet is comprised of substrate comprised of the clay substrate basic alkali salt and the amine liquid throughout the structure of clay alkali amine COsorbent pellet . Clay alkali amine COsorbent pellet contains pores which are physically interconnected to create conduits within clay alkali amine COsorbent pellet . Thus fluids within an atmosphere surrounding clay alkali amine COsorbent pellet and which contain the COto be absorbed can diffuse into the pores to interact with and be reversibly bound to the amine comprising the amine liquid.

A substantial portion of the amines and basic alkali salt within the clay alkali amine COsorbent is encapsulated between expanded interlayers of the clay substrate. As is understood polar liquids can enter between interlayers of certain substrates causing the lattice structure of the substrate to expand. One suitable substrate is bentonite an inert mineral alumino silicate whose main constituent is montmorillinite comprised of continuous layers of alumino silicate sheets. The c axis s dimension of the montmorillinite in bentonite may expand from 9.6 angstrom to an almost complete separation in the presence of polar liquids. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 908 497 to Siriwardane issued Jun. 21 2005 among others.

The interlayers of the clay alkali amine COsorbent is illustrated at . At a clay alkali amine COsorbent is comprised of a clay substrate a basic alkali salt and an amine . The clay substrate is illustrated as a montmormilionite with a 2 1 ratio of two tetrahedral silica sheets and an octahedral sheet . Successive sheets of clay form an interlayer region . As the clay interlayers expand alkali salt and amine materials enter the interlayer region .

At high pH conditions when alkali salt is present hydroxyls attached to Si and Al participate in the following reactions. SiOH OH SiO HO AlOH OH AlO HO

The polar nature of the amine facilitates the bonding of the amine to the ions associated with the clay substrate and alkali salt present in the interlayer region . Additionally the amines may have some bonding with alkali salt which may dissolve in an amine water solution present in the interlayer region .

The process for producing the clay alkali amine COsorbent is generally comprised of supplying a clay substrate a basic alkali salt and an amine liquid. The basic alkali salt is supplied relative to the clay substrate in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 50 parts per 100 parts of the clay substrate. In an embodiment the clay substrate is supplied at 0.5 parts to about 5 parts per 15 parts of the clay substrate. The amine liquid is supplied relative to a clay alkali amine combination in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 10 parts per 10 parts of the clay alkali combination. In an embodiment the amine liquid is supplied at 0.5 parts to about 2 parts per 3 parts. Here the clay alkali combination means a combined quantity of the clay substrate and the basic alkali salt supplied. The clay substrate basic alkali salt and amine liquid in the supplied quantities are integrated to produce the clay alkali amine COsorbent.

Within this disclosure the basic alkali salt is comprised of a metallic cation and an anion where the metallic cation is Na K Li Rb Cs Ca Ba or Sr and where the anion is hydroxide ion a carbonate ion an acetate ion a phosphate ion or an oxide ion. Similarly the second basic alkali salt when utilized may be comprised of a Na K Li Rb Cs Ca Ba or Sr metallic cations and a hydroxide carbonate phosphate acetate or oxide anions. In a particular embodiment the metallic cation is Na and the anion is a hydroxide or carbonate.

The basic alkali salt is a salt which can be formed by an anion derived from a weak acid and a cation derived from a strong base. As is understood a weak acid is an acid which fails to ionize fully when dissolved in water. In an embodiment the anion of the basic alkali salt is derived from a weak acid where the weak acid has a pKa greater than or equal to 2. See e.g. W. M. Haynes CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics 92nd Ed. 2012 among others. Additionally in an embodiment the basic alkali salt is comprised of at least 90 by weight of a basic alkali compound consisting of an alkali cation and an alkali anion where the alkali cation is from the group consisting of Na K Li Rb Cs Ca Ba Sr and mixtures thereof and the alkali anion is from the group consisting of a hydroxide ion a carbonate ion an acetate ion a phosphate ion an oxide ion or mixtures thereof.

The clay substrate is an aluminum phyllosilicate comprised of a layered structure which can expand to allow polar molecules to reside therein. In a particular embodiment the clay substrate is comprised of bentonite however clays other than bentonite can be used including but not limited to ball clay fuller s earth kaolin attapulgite hectorite meerschaum palygorskite saponite sepiaolite common clay and fire clay. Some clays may swell more than others thus having greater absorption capacities. Some clays may be able to contain or otherwise accommodate a greater volume of polar liquids than others. Typically the aluminum phyllosilicate is a hydrous aluminum phyllosilicate.

The liquid amine is liquid comprised of an amine where the amine is a primary amine a secondary amine a tertiary amine an aromatic amine a cyclic amine or combinations thereof. The amine may contain one or more moieties such as methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl t butyl allyl vinyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl phenyl naphthyl ethylene glycol polyethylene glycol and combinations thereof. Moieties attached to an amine nitrogen may contain one or more hydroxyl moieties attached to one or more moiety carbon atoms. In an embodiment the amine comprises at least 90 of the liquid amine by mass. In a further embodiment the amine comprises at least 99 of the liquid amine by mass.

In a particular embodiment the clay alkali amine COsorbent is produced by generating a solid solid heterogeneous mixture of the clay substrate and the basic alkali salt. In this particular embodiment the clay substrate is supplied as a plurality of clay substrate granules and the basic alkali salt is supplied as a plurality of basic alkali salt granules. Typically a mean diameter of both the clay substrate granules and the basic alkali salt granules is less than about 500 micron more typically less than about 100 micron. Additionally the clay substrate particles may have a limited water content for example less than about 15 by mass. In this embodiment the clay substrate basic alkali salt and amine liquid are integrated by first mixing the clay substrate granules and the basic alkali salt granules to generate the solid solid heterogeneous mixture which is then combined with the amine liquid to produce the clay alkali amine COsorbent.

The clay substrate granules and the basic alkali salt granules may be mixed into the solid solid heterogeneous mixture using any means known in the art. Various mixer types may be employed for example those types typically referred to a static mixers shaker mixers V blenders and others. Any means by which the basic alkali salt may be dispersed among the clay substrate particles is sufficient. Combination and mixing of the clay substrate granules and the basic alkali salt granules is typically conducted until the basic alkali salt particulates are substantially randomly dispersed within the clay substrate particles. Sufficient homogeneity of the solid solid heterogeneous mixture can typically be gauged by those skilled in the art. In an embodiment sufficient mixing was achieved using a 10 liter capacity EIRICH intensive mixer on low speed for about 15 20 minutes. In an additional embodiment the solid solid heterogeneous mixture has a Lacey mixing index greater than 0.5 based on the proportion of the basic alkali salt. See e.g. Tasirin et al. Mixing Process of Binary Polymer Particles in Different Type of Mixers Modern Applied Science 3 6 2009 and incorporated references among many others.

The solid solid heterogeneous mixture is then combined with the amine liquid. In an embodiment the solid solid heterogeneous mixture is combined with the amine liquid in a mixer appropriate for solid liquid mixing. In another embodiment the solid solid heterogeneous mixture takes the form of a plurality of porous clay alkali pellets having a mean diameter less than about 30 mm where a porous clay alkali pellet contains physically interconnected pores which create conduits within the clay alkali pellet and which are in fluid communication with an atmosphere surrounding the clay alkali pellet. In this embodiment the solid solid heterogeneous mixture is combined with the amine liquid by stirring and or coating the plurality of porous clay alkali pellets with the amine liquid and allowing at least some portion of the amine liquid to penetrate the interconnected pores of the porous clay alkali pellets thereby generating the clay alkali amine COsorbent. The resulting clay alkali amine COsorbent may additionally be subjected to a drying step conducted at a temperature of less than 120 C. for typically a period of at least 30 minutes.

Within this disclosure the term mean diameter when referring to a plurality of granules or pellets means an equivalent spherical diameter such as a Sauter mean diameter determined by means known in the art such as sieving microscopy sedimentation permeametry laser diffraction or other means or as reported by a manufacturer. See e.g. Martin Rhodes Introduction to Particle Technology 2nd ed. 2008 .

In an additional embodiment a liquid such as water may be added to the solid solid heterogeneous mixture in order to assist in forming the plurality of porous clay alkali pellets prior to combining the solid solid heterogeneous mixture and the amine liquid. In another embodiment the mass of the liquid added is less than 50 of the mass of the solid solid heterogeneous mixture. The resulting porous clay alkali pellets may additionally be subjected to a drying step typically conducted at a temperature of at least 50 C. for a period of at least 30 minutes.

In a further embodiment an alkaline solution is additionally added to the amine liquid where the alkaline solution is comprised of a second basic alkali salt. The second basic alkali salt may have the same chemical composition as the initial basic alkali salt supplied though this is not required. In this embodiment when the alkaline solution is utilized the mass of the second basic alkali salt comprising the alkaline solution is less than about 30 of the mass of the amine comprising the amine liquid.

In a second particular embodiment the basic alkali salt is supplied relative to the clay substrate in a weight ratio of from about 1 part to about 50 parts per 100 parts of the clay substrate and the amine liquid is supplied relative to a clay alkali combination at from about 1 part to about 10 parts per 10 parts of the clay alkali combination as before. In this particular embodiment the clay substrate is a plurality of porous clay pellets where a porous clay pellet contains physically interconnected pores which create conduits within the porous clay pellet and where at least some portion of the interconnected pores are in fluid communication with an atmosphere surrounding the porous clay pellet. Further in this particular embodiment the basic alkali salt is in the form of an alkali solution comprised of the basic alkali salt where the mass of the basic alkali salt comprising the alkali solution is less than about 30 of the mass of the amine comprising the amine liquid. Here integrating the clay substrate the basic alkali salt and the amine liquid is comprised of initially generating an amine alkali liquid by blending the liquid amine the alkali solution and a solvent where the basic alkali salt is soluble in the solvent and where the solvent is soluble in the amine. The plurality of porous clay pellets is then contacted with the amine alkali liquid by stirring and or coating the plurality of porous clay pellets with the amine alkali liquid and allowing at least some portion of the amine alkali liquid to penetrate the interconnected pores of the porous clay pellets thereby generating the clay alkali amine COsorbent. In this embodiment the clay alkali amine COsorbent may be additionally subjected to a drying step conducted at a temperature of less than 120 C. for a period of at least 30 minutes.

Clay substrates basic alkali salts liquid amines and alkaline solutions as described within the various embodiments herein are commercially available from manufacturers such as for example Sigma Aldrich Co. LLC St. Louis Mo. among others.

The clay alkali amine COsorbent produced using the methods disclosed is particularly suitable for the absorption of COfrom a gas stream when the gas stream contains a low concentration of COand is additionally comprised of moisture and relatively high oxygen temperatures below around 80 C. In this environment the clay alkali amine COsorbent exhibits stable reactivity and appears to greatly mitigate the impact of oxygen degradation of the encapsulated amine as compared to other clay amine sorbents prepared without the basic alkali salt as described.

Embodiments of the clay alkali amine COsorbent prepared by the methods disclosed herein were tested against existing clay amine sorbents which are prepared by methods that lack incorporation of the basic alkali salt as described. In these embodiments the clay substrate was bentonite the basic alkali salt was NaOH and the amine liquid was a DEA liquid comprised of about 99 wt. diethanolamine DEA .

A first clay alkali amine COsorbent Clay NaOH DEA 1 was prepared according to an embodiment of the disclosed method. The clay substrate was supplied as a plurality of bentonite granules and the basic alkali salt was supplied as a plurality of NaOH granules where the mean diameter of both the bentonite and NaOH granules was less than about 100 micron. The NaOH granules were supplied relative to the bentonite granules in a weight ratio of about 1 part per 15 parts of the bentonite granules and the DEA liquid was supplied relative to the bentonite NaOH combination in a weight ratio of about 0.5 parts per 3 parts of the bentonite NaOH combination.

The bentonite NaOH and DEA liquid were integrated by first mixing the bentonite and NaOH granules to generate a solid solid heterogeneous mixture of bentonite NaOH adding a small amount of water to the bentonite NaOH to form bentonite NaOH pellets drying the bentonite NaOH pellets at a temperature greater than 100 C. then combining the bentonite NaOH pellets and the DEA liquid by mixing and allowing the DEA liquid to impregnate the pores of the bentonite NaOH pellets. The thus produced Clay NaOH DEA 1 sorbent was additionally subjected to a drying step at a temperature of less than 120 C.

A second clay alkali amine CO2 sorbent Clay DEA NaOH 2 was additionally prepared according to another embodiment of the disclosed method where a clay substrate comprised of bentonite was supplied as a plurality of porous clay pellets. The basic alkali salt was supplied as a NaOH solution in DEA. The DEA NaOH liquid was supplied within the 1 2 parts per 3 parts of the bentonite. Additionally the mass of NaOH comprising the NaOH DEA solution supplied was about 10 of the mass of the DEA comprising the DEA liquid. Initially the DEA liquid and NaOH as described were blended to generate a DEA NaOH liquid and the plurality of porous clay pellets. The thus produced Clay DEA NaOH 2 sorbent was additionally subjected to a drying step at a temperature of less than 120 C.

Additionally a clay amine sorbent Clay DEA lacking incorporation of the basic alkali salt was prepared according to the method disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 908 497 to Siriwardane. The Clay DEA sorbent was prepared with bentonite and DEA.

The Clay NaOH DEA 1 Clay DEA NaOH 2 and Clay DEA sorbents prepared were tested to determine the impact of the basic alkali salt inclusion as described in the preparation methods disclosed. The respective sorbents were tested for COsorption in an atmospheric fixed bed flow reactor. A quantity of 0.5 1 g of sorbent was placed in the fixed bed flow reactor. The sorption of COwas performed with 1050 2289 PPM C02 21 O Balance N2 at a flow rate of 50 cc min. Regenerations were performed at 50 C. with air without CO or N2 at a flow rate of 70 cc min. During the cyclic tests the COsorption time was limited to 60 minutes when 1050 ppm CO air was used and the time was limited to 30 minutes when 2289 ppm CO air was used. The breakthrough time used for COsorption calculations was 500 ppm of the COconcentration did not reach the 500 ppm level during the specified absorption time the COabsorption capacity was calculated for the whole time period.

Initially the performance data COcapture capacity vs. time of the Clay DEA sorbent without alkali was evaluated as a baseline. The performance data moles of COuptake by 1000 g of the solid sorbent at each cycle during the 50 cycle test is illustrated at . The sorption was done at 40 C at about 0.23 vol COin air with 3 moisture and regeneration was done with N2 at 50 C. The clay amine sorbent showed stable reactivity up to 25 cycles followed by a decrease in COcapture capacity after that as illustrated by test data line and trend line . Since the regenerations were conducted at 50 C. the amine liquid loss from the sorbent was expected to be minimal. In order to determine whether there was a liquid amine loss during the 50 cycle test nitrogen analysis of fresh Clay DEA sorbent and the Clay DEA sorbent after the 50 cycle test was conducted. The nitrogen content was very similar in both fresh and reacted materials which indicated no amine loss in the Clay DEA sorbent after the cyclic test.

For comparison the Clay NaOH DEA 1 sorbent was evaluated over a 90 cycle test. The sorption was done at 40 C. at about 0.23 vol CO air 3 moisture and regeneration was done with air at 50 C. The COcapture data during the 90 cycle test is shown at illustrating test data line . It is clear that the COcapture performance was very stable during the 90 cycle test even after regenerating with air at 50 C. During the 90 cycle test the sorption time was limited to 30 minutes. Additionally at the 91st cycle the COsorption was also performed for 90 minutes with the comparison data of the COconcentration measured at the outlet of the reactor profiles of the reacted and the fresh sample shown in as and respectively. It is clear that the COsorption profiles of the fresh and the reacted samples are very similar and the sorbent had minimal degradation during the 90 cycle test.

Additionally the Clay DEA NaOH 2 sorbent was evaluated over 50 cycle tests. The sorption was done at 40 C. at about 0.23 vol CO air 3 moisture and regeneration was done with Nat 50 C. in a first test and air at 50 C. in a second test. Performance data for the first test Nregeneration is shown at illustrated by test data line and trend line . The results indicate that the COcapture capacity is stable during the 50 cycle test conducted with Nregeneration. Performance data for the second test air regeneration is shown at illustrated by test data line and trend line . As indicated under air regeneration Clay DEA NaOH 2 sorbent showed stable reactivity up to about 25 cycles but exhibited a decrease in COcapture capacity after about 25 cycles. The solubility of NaOH in DEA is relatively low and the results of compared to indicate a likely advantage to incorporating the basic alkali salt through the solid solid heterogeneous mixture disclosed. NaOH solutions with high concentrations are also known to have adverse effects on the clay structure.

A third clay alkali amine COsorbent Clay Na2CO3 DEA NaOH was additionally prepared according to another embodiment of the disclosed method. In this embodiment the clay substrate was supplied as a plurality of bentonite granules and the basic alkali salt was supplied as a plurality of NaCOgranules where the mean diameter of both the bentonite and NaCOgranules was less than about 100 micron and the Na2CO3 granules were supplied in a weight ratio of about 1.4 parts per 15 parts of the bentonite granules 1 11 . The bentonite and NaCOgranules were mixed to generate a solid solid heterogeneous mixture of bentonite NaCOand a small amount of water was added to form bentonite NaCOpellets followed by drying at a temperature greater than 100 C. Additionally an alkaline solution comprised of NaOH was added to the DEA liquid where the mass of the NaOH was about 3.5 of the DEA comprising the DEA liquid. The resulting DEA NaOH liquid was supplied in a weight ratio of about 1.5 parts per 3 parts of the bentonite NaCOcombination and combined with the bentonite NaCOpellets by mixing and allowing the DEA NaOH liquid to impregnate the pores of the bentonite NaCOpellets. The thus produced Clay NaCODEA NaOH sorbent was additionally subjected to a drying step at a temperature of less than 120 C.

The Clay NaCODEA NaOH sorbent was also evaluated over a 100 cycle test. The sorption was done at 40 C. at about 0.23 vol. CO air 3 moisture and regeneration was done with air at 50 C. The COcapture data during the 100 cycle test is shown at illustrating test data line . The COcapture performance was very stable during the 100 cycle test. Additionally at the 101st cycle the CO2 sorption was also performed for 160 minutes with comparison data of the CO2 sorption profiles of the reacted and the fresh sample indicated at . The COconcentration profiles at are highly similar up to about 120 minutes and diverge slightly thereafter with the fresh sample indicated at and the reacted sample indicated at . It is clear that the COsorption profiles of the fresh and the reacted samples are very similar and the sorbent had minimal degradation during the 100 cycle test.

Thus disclosed here is a clay alkali amine COsorbent composition comprised of a clay substrate a basic alkali salt and an amine liquid for the capture of COfrom a gas stream. The clay substrate serves as a plurality of internally situated reaction sites facilitating reaction of the amines with CO and the basic alkali salt acts as a strong base possibly absorbing H0 to generate a high pH environment. The basic alkali salt greatly mitigates oxygen degradation of the amine and significantly prolongs the useful life of the clay alkali amine COsorbent. The clay alkali amine COsorbent produced is particularly advantageous for low temperature COremoval cycles where COis present at ppm levels and where oxygen concentrations are increased such as low temperature COremoval cycles from air having a COconcentration less than around 2000 ppm and an oxygen concentration around 21 .

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

