---

title: Online decorating system for edible products
abstract: A web-enabled standalone application may, in selected implementations, prevent received license-controlled image data from unauthorized re-use, editing, or distribution, and permits image processing, such as applying the International Color Consortium's color correction process, at the local control device. The web-enabled standalone application may further generate a printer specific byte stream based on post-image processed data, providing a color managed workflow independent of local control device operating system print drivers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09345264&OS=09345264&RS=09345264
owner: DECOPAC, INC.
number: 09345264
owner_city: Anoka
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141212
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 287 023 entitled Online Decorating System for Edible Items and filed Nov. 1 2011 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 852 988 entitled Decorating System for Edible Products and filed on Aug. 9 2010 each of which is incorporated herein by reference. This application is also related to U.S. application Ser. No. 10 925 459 entitled Decorating System for Edible Items and filed on Aug. 25 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 012 712 which is also incorporated herein by reference.

Decorative food products such as cakes are popular items particularly for special occasions such as birthdays holidays weddings anniversaries and other celebratory events. These items are typically purchased from bakeries since the items generally require some skill and or apparatus to create. Previously these items were created from colored frostings applied manually by trained bakery chefs. For example pre made decorative items can be placed on a food product. These pre made items are generally produced in bulk in a factory and inventoried until use. The use of such pre made decorative items precludes uniquely decorated and or personalized decorations. Also these pre made decorative items are generally pre ordered which requires a long lead time or stored in inventory at the risk of under ordering or over ordering as well as the cost of such inventory.

Another alternative has been to utilize an automated system for decorating cakes. One such system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 505 775 issued to Kitos. This system utilizes an integrated work surface controlled with a computer system. An image is scanned into the computer system. The computer system then uses a motion control system to manipulate a drop on demand colorant expulsion system over a cake carried on the work surface to reproduce the scanned image. This system produces the decorations and images directly onto the food product.

An automated system for printing images onto edible media that can then be applied to a food product or consumed as is is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 286 258 issued to Schnoebelen et al. which is incorporated by reference herein. This system discloses a local processing unit and a number of image sources including a scanner and a database of digital images stored on a local computer memory system. The user selects an image from one of the image sources and prints the image onto an edible media.

A decorating system for edible items is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 012 712 issued to Spurgeon et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. This system discloses creating a decorative edible item from a selected image. The system includes at least one image source such as a scanner and or a library of stored images a controller unit and a printer for creating a high quality pictorial rendition of the image. The printed edible media can then be applied onto a product shipped to a separate location or eaten as is.

Various websites exist for allowing users to customize decorations. One such online website is www.genometri.com which allows users to decorate and purchase customized decorated cakes. Users can choose from pre designed decorative templates or can choose to customize their cake decoration. Users can upload personal photographs to use in the cake decoration and can add text and clip art to the cake decoration. When the user is finished decorating the cake the user purchases a cake decorated with the customized decoration. The purchase transaction is processed through the website.

Disclosed herein are methods and systems for decorating edible media. In certain embodiments at least one local control device and a Graphical User Interface GUI can be used for selecting an image receiving and or transmitting the selected image via the Internet to and or from a central control device containing a website with at least one image database and printing licensed digital images at the local control device upon an edible medium using edible inks. In certain configurations a principal user authorizes a secondary user to search and print specific pre authorized images from the central control device s image database. In certain implementations the user purchases edible media via the Internet.

In selected implementations the user decorates an edible media with images from multiple image sources. The image sources may include local image sources such as a scanner or a digital camera or remote image sources such as an image library in an Internet website. The image sources may contain proportionate two dimensional images as well as disproportionate two dimensional images that can be manipulated by a user.

In various embodiments the user may print licensed digital images within a print environment provided internally by a software web browser used to navigate the website with at least one image database. In other implementations a user may print licensed digital images in an external printing environment provided separately from the software web browser used to navigate the website with at least one image database. For example the external printing environment could be a web enabled standalone application on a local control device that accesses an image repository on a central control device through a secure connection originally authenticated via login procedures in a separate software web browser application. The web enabled standalone application may in selected implementations prevent received license controlled image data from unauthorized re use editing or distribution and permits image processing such as applying the International Color Consortium s color correction process at the local control device. The web enabled standalone application may further generate a printer specific byte stream based on post image processed data providing a color managed workflow independent of local control device operating system print drivers.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The system manages both licensed and non licensed images for purposes of obeying licensing laws when printing the images on an edible medium. Licensed digital images such as copyrighted images including logos characters illustrations or photographs having licensing terms and conditions for usage can be purchased from one or more online sources. Non licensed digital images such as personal photographs illustrations clip art or other non copyright protected images can be uploaded locally to the system . Both licensed and non licensed digital images are retrieved from an external device or the Internet stored locally and uploaded to the system . In some embodiments a combination of licensed and non licensed digital images are retrieved either locally or online and printed in combination on a single edible medium.

Users generally access the online environment in system to search select edit and purchase images. The purchased images can be printed onto the edible media using edible inks. For example a user of system accesses the online environment to search for a particular image. The user selects the image purchases and or edits the image and directs the system to print the purchased image onto the edible media . The images available to system can be retrieved from any number of sources including local online or remote storage repositories. For example images can be retrieved from local image sources which are communicably connectable to system . The local sources can include but are not limited to a digital camera a CD ROM OR DVD a video device a flash drive a scanner a mobile device a computer available on a local network an external hard drive a netbook a laptop a wireless device e.g. Wi Fi enabled Bluetooth enabled or other wirelessly enabled device or a handheld device not shown .

Images can also be retrieved via the network from any number of websites containing digital images or libraries of digital images. Images can additionally be retrieved from other networked or remote storage repositories not shown . Upon retrieving images the system provides access to additional features for handling retrieved images such as photograph editing social networking content insertion or augmented reality content insertion.

Users can purchase edible media using one or more e commerce sites. For example users can purchase an edible sheet from an e commerce site incorporated into system . E commerce sites associated with system for example provide a number of selectable options for obtaining edible media. The user can choose standard off the shelf edible media items or custom edible media items.

In some configurations the user is provided the option to purchase edible media locally using the system . For example the user may be offered several sizes of edible media for decorating. The user can select a desired decoration size and choose an edible media e.g. an edible sheet of paper size comparable to the desired decoration size. The selected edible media e.g. edible media can be purchased through the system by entering an appropriate edible media code or by simply selecting the desired edible media onscreen. The edible media code can in effect function as a part number for ordering a specific edible media sheet size. In some implementations the edible media code is requested by the system to prompt a user to select an edible medium available locally in a bakery for example. The selected edible medium can be loaded into the system and images can be printed upon the edible medium.

In certain embodiments the system requests that the user enter a unique code. The unique code may be sent to the user with edible media prior to accessing system . The unique code can be entered once by the user to enable printing of images a specific number of times. For example the user can enter a code and receive up to twenty four print sessions for selected images. In operation once the user enters the code the system verifies that the code is valid and has not been used before.

Once the edible media has traveled through the printer and the image printed thereon with the edible inks the printed edible media is removed from the printer. The printed edible media is then placed on a food product at the point of printing and transported to a separate location for application. In some configurations the edible media is relatively thin and sturdy allowing for convenient transport and thus minimization of damage to the decorations. In certain embodiments the edible media may also include an optional release sheet having a silicon coating functioning as a backing material for example.

In some implementations the system includes an image uploading device. The image uploading device may be a wired or wireless storage device operable to upload licensed and non licensed digital images. The image uploading device may be coupled to any number of alternate image sources for uploading additional images. For example the image uploading device may represent a scanner while the alternate image source represents a network drive accessed over the Internet. In another example the image uploading device represents a mobile phone device while the alternate image source represents a USB fob.

In the system User Interface controls are connected to the local control device . The User Interface controls include a keyboard a mouse and a display device . Other implementations may use other devices such as a touch screen device a joy stick or a voice command system. The User Interface controls allow the user to operate the system to decorate edible media or to display edible media related content on the display device .

The user is displayed a variety of navigation screens and menus on the display device . The user selects desired options from the navigation screens and menus using the keyboard the mouse or other input mechanism. The User Interface controls relay signals from the user to a local control device thereby operating the system .

The display device is operable to display a Graphical User Interface GUI for interacting with the hardware and software components of system . The GUI can for example include application screens website content software controls and other Graphical User Interface content. The GUI is operable to receive user input for accessing one or more licensed or non licensed digital images. The GUI can for example include graphical elements provided in one or more applications. Users can interact with one or more graphical elements to control the behavior and output of system components.

The GUI is operable to control the local control device and communicate with the central control device over a network to retrieve at least one licensed digital image from the central control device. The GUI is also operable to cause to be printed at least one licensed digital image onto an edible medium. The GUI is also operable to switch between multiple software applications including a software web browser and non web browser software. In some configurations the GUI is operable to retrieve non licensed images.

The GUI can be presented within a software web browser. In certain implementations a user may print licensed digital images within a print environment provided internally by a web browser used to navigate a website with at least one image database. In other embodiments a user may print licensed digital images in an external printing environment provided separately from the software web browser.

The system includes one or more devices which can be communicably coupled to system as local image sources . In this example a variety of local image sources are connected to the local control device . One such local image source is the scanner . The scanner can be a flatbed scanner or any other type of scanner such as a drum scanner or a through feed scanner. The scanner allows an image to be rendered from personal photographs drawings books magazines etc. In certain embodiments system can evaluate acquired images for copyright indicators. Based on the detection of copyright indicators the user may be alerted to potential copyright limitations or usage of the acquired image may be automatically denied.

Other local image sources include the digital camera the CD ROM OR DVD the video device the flash drive and the mobile device however other sources of digital image storage or repositories can be used in the system . In operation when a particular local image source is connected to the local control device a user can retrieve images from the connected local image source to use in the system for decorating e.g. printing on the edible media .

Images retrieved from local image sources are uploaded to system and stored. For example scanned images retrieved from scanner are uploaded into system stored locally on system and provided for use in the system. The stored images can be retrieved by users for editing printing and so on.

The system includes one or more local video devices . Any device that is capable of capturing and communicating a digital video signal can be used. In certain embodiments the local video device is a web camera. The local video device is generally connected to the local control device by a wireless or wireline means. The user uses the local video device to send a digital video signal to the local control device . The local control device transmits the digital video signal to a central control device via the network . In certain embodiments a single frame can be extracted from the digital video signal for printing. In other embodiments a single image for printing can be generated based on a montage of image frames extracted from the digital video signal.

The local control device in this example is coupled to the User Interface controls the local image sources the local video device and a printer . Local image sources contains at least one local digital image. In certain embodiments local digital images are selectively uploaded from the local control device to the central control device for storage permitting printing of the local digital image onto the edible medium at a later time.

In some configurations the local control device is coupled to a printer and an image uploading device for purposes of retrieving and transmitting a digital image from the image uploading device to the printer. The retrieval and transmission is typically in response to the user selection. For example the user uses a scanner to upload an image to the local control device . The uploaded image is transferred to the printer for printing.

The local control device is operated by the user using the User Interface controls . For example the user operates the local control device to search select and purchase an image. The local control device is operable to print the purchased image onto the edible media for example. The local control device includes a software web browser that allows the local control device to communicate with the central control device via network . In some implementations the central control device is a web server capable of communicating using standard Internet protocols.

In this example the local control device is depicted as a computer system. However any processing unit which can digitally process signals from local image sources or other sources can be used.

The central control device is connected via the network to the local control device . The central control device includes a plurality of licensed digital images for decorating edible media by authorized users. The licensed digital images are protected from unauthorized usage and unauthorized user access. The central control device provides a tracking mechanism to authorize or de authorize usage of licensed digital images. For example the central control device authorizes the use of particular licensed digital images according to user credentials. The user credentials can be stored in system or externally. The user credentials typically include payment information location information and system usage data. The central control device verifies whether specific users should be provided access to particular licensed images.

The central control device may include a software web server which allows the local control device to communicate with a website on the central control device . The web server can be any web server capable of communicating using standard network protocols compatible with local control device using a variety of Internet connection types and operating systems. The web server may run on a variety of operating platforms for example Windows Linux MAC OS or UNIX.

The website not shown hosted on the central control device includes a number of software modules. The software modules may include but are not limited to image library modules user account modules edible media modules photograph editing modules user location recognition modules training modules print modules licensing restriction modules social networking modules augmented reality content modules security modules and or messaging modules. Other modules are possible. The described software modules can be selectively combined to form a multifunctional software module or split into multiple software modules.

The user can access the website and accompanying software modules on the central control device using the local control device for example. The user can search images purchase images edit images print images order edible media view training content and access social networking features and augmented reality content stored on the central control device . Example software modules will be discussed below in reference to .

Central control device may include media servers for example a FLASH multimedia server and the local control device may include corresponding media players for example a FLASH player. FLASH players may be implemented either as a plug in to the software web browser or as a stand alone application.

The system includes the printer operable to receive and print images upon edible media using edible inks. The printer may include a feed path through which the edible media is inserted and conveyed past one or more printheads. The printhead technology can be any type of printhead technology which can be controlled by digital signals including for example inkjet thermal inkjet piezo inkjet continuous inkjet valve jet electrostatic inkjet and airbrush technology.

In some printing systems the edible inks described above are generally fed from a cartridge reservoir. Such cartridge reservoirs may be refilled as need. In some embodiments images are printed onto a transfer layer which in turn is applied onto the edible media .

The system includes edible media on which images are printed. The edible media in this example includes at least one edible layer and an edible coating . The edible medium may be a single layer of edible material. For example the edible medium may be a single layer of sugar paper sugar paste starch paper fondant or some other edible form. Examples of options for edible material include but are not limited to standard media with sizes of and sheet or precut media of sizes 8 inch round 3 inch round or 2 inch round or Designer Prints.

One embodiment of the edible layer of the edible media includes a mixture of a sugar paste of varying thickness. The edible layer is typically formulated for several key features. First the edible layer is mixed to depict high quality pictorial images from particular edible inks disclosed herein. Second the edible layer travels through a printer e.g. printer without damaging the edible media the edible layer or the printer. For example the edible layer is mixed to ensure sufficient strength to be bent and manipulated through the conveying path of the printer withstand the heat of the printing process and still maintain suitable textural integrity as to not jam in the printer mechanism of printer . Third the edible layer is mixed to ensure there is no detraction from the taste of the food product on which it is to be applied. In some configurations the edible layer is formed from sugar sorbitol hydrogenated palm kernel oil xanthan gum locust bean gum gum tragacanth dried glucose syrup glaze and water. Other variations of edible layers and edible media may be used as well.

In some implementations the edible layer is formulated for use in decorating pizza or deli type items. For example the edible layer may be formed from tapioca starch corn starch corn syrup microcrystalline cellulose sugar water canola oil glycerin titanium oxide polyglycerol esters salt maltodextrin silicon dioxide medium chain triglycerides algin citric acid coconut oil soy lecithin locust bean gum FD C blue 1 lake red 40 lake yellow 5 lake and yellow 6 lake.

Other examples of edible layers are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 017 394 assigned to the Lucks Company and incorporated herein by reference. This type of edible layer is formed from a flour and or starch base as opposed to the sugar base of a fondant. Another example of an edible layer is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 334 404 issued to Garcia et al. and incorporated herein by reference. Other types of edible layers can be used including but not limited to rice paper wafer paper and other edible substrates on which an image may be printed.

The edible coating enables the edible media to render a high quality pictorial image on the surface of the edible layer . Without this coating the inks tend to run or bead or form an imperfect image. In one example the coating is a very thin layer of calcium carbonate. This thin layer allows the inks to properly perform to render a high quality pictorial image. Other coatings may be used in system .

In some embodiments the edible media may also include an optional release sheet having a silicon coating functioning as a backing material for example. In some implementations the edible media is a standard size or shape. Example sizes can include 8.5 inches by 11 inches 9 inch round and 8 inch round. The size can be a precut size or a selectable size. In some configurations frosting layers edible material and or fondant layers can be malleable and or stretchable to various sizes and shapes.

The edible inks used in the system are typically formulated from food grade colors and ingredients to enable high quality near photographic images to be printed onto the edible media . These inks are edible and have precise color matching properties but additionally function in a manner similar to other commercially available inks in printers. Edible inks may include natural inks manufactured from a food grade base.

The edible inks are specifically formulated for use in a particular printer. The user selects to print the image using different color models according to the requirements of the printer. Providing selectable color models improves the precision of the printed image by enabling adherence to particular color matching systems. The edible inks may be inks designed to be used for decorating numerous different types of food products including for example cookies cakes pizza cupcakes candy bars edible tattoos temporary tattoos cereal boxes waffles and pancakes.

The edible inks are additionally formulated to faithfully render images in accordance with the appropriate color model. Possible color models include but are not limited to the Cyan Magenta Yellow and Black CMYK color model as well as the RGB LAB HSB Pantone Hexachrome and other color models. In some embodiments the edible inks are formulated to render images in accordance with the CMYK color model. In some examples the compositions of the edible inks could include 1 Cyan water isopropyl alcohol sodium lauryl sulphate FD C Blue 1 2 Magenta water isopropyl alcohol sodium lauryl sulphate FD C Red 3 FD C Blue 1 3 Yellow water isopropyl alcohol sodium lauryl sulphate FD C Yellow 5 and or 4 Black water isopropyl alcohol sodium lauryl sulphate FD C Blue 1. Other examples of edible inks that provide faithful matching to the CMYK color model as well as other color models and that function within the constraints of commercially available printing technologies may be used in the system . In some configurations the inks used in system include a combination of edible inks natural inks synthetic inks or other inks.

The software modules shown in may include an image library module an image editing module an edible media module a user account module a license module a print module a user location module a social networking module an augmented reality module a training module an ordering module a maintenance module a reporting module and a messaging module .

The image library module is a software module including a plurality of digital images that can be printed onto an edible media. The image library module includes both images available for purchase and free images. The images may be licensed or unlicensed images and may include clip art illustrations photographs text or other file content. The image library module generally contains different formats of the same image each of which are configured for printers that use differing color models.

The images in the image library module may contain embedded augmented reality markers which allow the user access to augmented reality content. The augmented reality marker can be any asymmetric geographical shapes of any color with sufficient contrast. The user can use the image containing the augmented reality marker to access augmented reality content on the augmented reality module for example.

The image library module allows the user to browse or search through the images using keyword criteria such as Sports or Princess or Birthday. The image library module may be updated with new images and new image formats. In certain embodiments image library module may be updated with an image acquired through a local image source such as a USB WebCam. In another illustrative embodiment image library module may be updated by a reference to Web content such as a photograph posted on a social media network. In another implementation image library module may be updated based on changes in agreements with image suppliers and or alterations in files supported by the system .

The image library module interacts with the license module and the user location module to allow or restrict users when finding and or purchasing particular images. For example the license module may restrict access to a user based on a number of factors. One example factor may include barring image purchases based on a geographic location and or an authorized list for the user. In this example when a user selects to view images available from the image library module the user location module can automatically identify the geographic location of the user. The user s geographic location can then be used by the license module to identify whether any of the images in the image library module are restricted from being sold in the user s location. If a restriction is found the license module sends to the image library module information on which images are unavailable to the user. The image library module removes the restricted or unavailable images from the image library made available to the user. In certain embodiments restriction of images based on the user s geographic location can be in addition to or in substitute for an authorized list of images containing available images for the user.

The image library module also interacts with the user account module to allow a secondary user to only search and purchase images that have been authorized for the secondary user by a principal user. For example a principal user can designate specific secondary users. The principal user then searches through the image library module and identifies which images can be sold to which secondary users. The principal user can designate different images for users in different geographic locations. When a secondary user accesses the website and selects to search the images in the image library module the secondary user is only shown the images available at the user s geographic location and or on the user s authorized list which is made of images previously authorized by the principal user.

The image library module also interacts with the social networking module to allow the user to identify the most popular images or designs and to access other social networking functions. For example the user may be provided an option of viewing lists of the most popular designs. The user may also be provided an option of viewing consumer reviews of images in the image library. The provision of social networking options may be provided in an online fashion where the user can interact with social networking content using system .

The image library module interacts with the print module to ensure that the version of the image that is compatible with the color model of the printer is sent to the user s printer. When the user selects to print an image the print module sends to the image library module the color model of the user s printer. The image library module sends to the user s printer the correct format of the image. In certain embodiments the print module prompts or allows the user to identify the printer attached to local control device . In other illustrative embodiments the print module auto detects the identity of printer .

The image library module also interacts with the edible media module to enable the user to identify images suitable for the particular edible media selected for decoration. The user enters into the edible media module the specific type of edible media being decorated. The edible media module contains characteristics of the edible media and sends to the image library module specific criteria for compatible images such as image size. The image library module removes the images which are not compatible with the edible media the user selected.

The edible media module is a software module that includes a list of the edible media available to be used in the system and which are available for purchase by the user. The user can search or browse through the edible media module using various keyword criteria such as cupcakes or cake. The edible media module may also contain information about the cost and availability of edible media. Furthermore the edible media module also may contain a database of unique codes that are associated with particular edible media. The unique codes may function as part numbers printing data cost data retrieval data or other data. The edible media module interacts with the user account module to allow the user to purchase edible media. Once the user selects an edible media for purchase the user account module processes the financial transaction. In some implementations if a licensed image is selected the user account module may require the user to checkout before proceeding to print the image on the edible media.

The edible media module interacts with the image library module to allow the user to identify images that are compatible with particular edible media. The edible media module contains information about edible media compatible with the system. The user chooses the specific type of edible media and the edible media module sends information about this edible media to the image library module . The image library module then isolates specific images that are compatible with the particular type of edible media.

The edible media module includes at least one repository not shown of unique codes that are associated with particular edible media. The edible media module tracks whether or not a code has been used to authorize a print. The edible media module interacts with the print module to verify that the user is using authorized edible media using the codes. The print module notifies the edible media module upon receiving a purchase request which prompts the user to enter the code from the edible media. The edible media module verifies that the code is valid and that the code has not been previously used. If the code is valid then the print module proceeds with the print of the image. If the code is not valid then the print module notifies the user of the invalidity without printing the image.

The image editing module is a software module that allows users to edit selected images. Example editing functions may include cropping moving rotating re touching brightening darkening and adding text to images as well as other image editing operations. The image editing module interacts with the licensing module to prevent users from editing images on which there are editing restrictions imposed by a license. The license module informs the image editing module if there are any restrictions on editing the selected image and if so how. The image editing module then prevents the user from editing any images in violation of a license.

The user account module is a software module that maintains profiles of individual users in user accounts. The user accounts include information pertaining to a number of users such as address data financial data previous image usage etc. In some embodiments the user account module maintains a list of user names and passwords that provide or limit access to particular user accounts. The user account module can process financial transactions for example to allow users to purchase edible media.

The user account module can store purchase and order histories including selected images designs text content printed notifications configured edible media purchased etc. The user account module can also store user profiles address data financial data and image restrictions.

The user account module interacts with the edible media module to allow the user to purchase edible media. Once the user selects the desired edible media the user selects to purchase the edible media. The user account module will then process the purchase. The user account module may prompt the user for credit card information or bank account information for direct debit. Alternatively the user account module may already have this information on file. The user account module will charge the user the designated amount.

In some configurations the user account module provides an option to purchase credits. The credits can be applied to a particular user account for purposes of purchasing images using the credits. The credits can be incremented when purchased by a user and decremented when the user purchases images using system . For example if a user chooses to download and print a digital image the user account module can decrement the user s credits thereby providing payment and print the requested images onto a requested edible medium.

Licensed digital images can be charged on a per use basis. Thus if the user prints the same licensed digital image on six cupcakes the user may be charged six credits for using the licensed digital image six times. In some implementations the system can allow printing of a licensed image multiple times on one sheet of edible media for example at the cost of one usage e.g. one credit . The system may allow a variable relationship between an image and the number of credits required to use the image.

In the event that the user is short on credits the user may be prompted to purchase additional credits by using a credit card for example. If however the user wishes to print non licensed digital images no credit charge will be transacted. Rather the user will simply purchase any materials utilized.

In some embodiments a selected licensed digital image can be instantaneously purchased from the central control device for example using the local control device upon receiving i user entered payment information and ii a user request for purchase of the selected licensed digital image. The payment information can for example allow access to an e commerce system e.g. within system for purchasing licensed digital images using decrementable credits for printing licensed digital images. The e commerce system can be adjustable for multiple currencies such as the U.S. Dollar the Pound and the Euro just to name a few examples.

In some configurations users can pre purchase credits that will enable a print function to be selectable within the GUI for example. The pre purchased credits allow for users to easily access licensed content as part of a custom design and print the design in an accelerated fashion. For example if the user pre purchased credits the user may have been asked to sign a licensing usage agreement at the time of purchasing the credits. Thus when the user performs a transaction with such credits additional forms and or steps are not required of the user during design and print stages.

In some implementations the payment information includes credit card data rather than previously purchased credits. In some embodiments the payment information includes credit card data presented for purchasing decrementable credits.

In general the user account module interacts with the image library module to allow the user to purchase an image from the image library module . Once the user selects the desired image the user chooses to complete the purchase. The user account module will then complete the purchase. For example the user account module can verify whether the user has any available credits. If the user does have available credits then one or more credits are debited from the user s credits and the user account module authorizes the use of the image. If the user does not already have available credits the user account module may prompt the user for credit card information or bank account information for direct debit. Alternatively the user account module may already have this information and use previously stored financial information. The user account module will charge the user the designated amount and authorize the use of the image to complete the purchase.

The user account module allows a principal user to designate one or more secondary users. The user account module interacts with the image library module the license module and the user location module to allow the principal user to designate an authorized image list for the particular secondary user. A principal user accesses the user account module and designates specific secondary users. The principal user then selects the image library module and searches through the image library. The principal user designates which images are authorized for which secondary users. The principal user can also authorize different images for different secondary users. This information is generally stored in the user account module .

The license module is a software module that includes information regarding the system s license to certain images. The license module interacts with the image library module and the user location module to ensure that the user may only search and select for purchase authorized licensed images. The user location module informs the license module of the user s geographic location. The license module determines whether restrictions exist on the sales of particular images in the user s location. If restrictions exist the license module requests that the image library module remove the unauthorized images from the images available to the user. In some configurations authorized lists or pre filtered searching options can be applied to the available licensed content such that a user is pre approved for finding and or downloading particular content.

The license module interacts with the image editing module to ensure that any licensing restrictions on images are followed. Once the user selects a particular image the license module informs the image editing module if any licensing restrictions exist that prevent the user from editing the selected image. If restrictions exist the license module presents the restrictions to the user. The print module is a software module that allows the user to print images using the system . Once the user has selected an image and is ready to print the image onto an edible media the user selects to print the image. The print module allows a user to preselect default printer model information which can be stored within the print module . In some implementations the print module selects a color profile based on printer model information stored within print module . Alternatively print module can perform hardware communication with the printer to determine printer model information for the purposes of selecting a color profile. In another illustrative embodiment print module allows the user to select a color profile. The print module provides data from the central control device to the local control device for printing on a printer attached to the local control device. In certain embodiments the local control device may print data provided by the print module within a print environment provided internally by a software web browser used to navigate the website with at least one image database. In other configurations a local control device may print data provided by the print module in an external printing environment provided separately from the software web browser used to navigate the website with at least one image database.

The print module interacts with the edible media module to verify that the user inputs a code such as an edible media code that corresponds to an authorized edible media. The edible media module verifies that the code is valid and unused before the print module proceeds with sending data to the local control device for printing.

The user location module is a software module that identifies the user s geographic location. In certain implementations this may be accomplished by comparing the user s IP address against publicly available databases. In other embodiments the user location module determines a user s geographic location from a stored user address list. For example the user location module accesses one or more user address lists to determine which users reside in a particular location. The user address list typically includes a number of users with corresponding physical mailing addresses. The user location module accesses the user address lists to determine which geographic location is relevant for a particular user and provide a catalog of images having proper licensing for the determined geographic location. User address lists can be generated by a vendor or third party and sent to individual systems such as system . The secondary user address lists can be uploaded by a primary user e.g. a store manager using storage media or uploaded automatically over the Internet. Although detecting IP addresses and user address lists are discussed above any available method of determining an Internet user s location may be used.

The user location module interacts with the license module and the image library module to ensure that the user can only select and purchase images that are licensed in the geographical area. For example if an image is licensed to be sold or used in Canada the same image may have requirements for use in the United States. As such the user location module can use license module and image library module to ensure image licensing agreements are obeyed.

The user location module interacts with the user account module to ensure that a secondary user can only search and select for purchase images that have been authorized by a principal user. When a user selects to search for an image from the image library module the user location module identifies the user s location. The user location module informs the user account module of the user s location so the user account module can identify whether the user is a secondary user with geographic restrictions on the authorized images available to the user. In some configurations authorized lists or pre filtered searching options can be applied to the available licensed content such that a user is pre approved for finding and or downloading particular content despite the user location falling within a geographic restriction.

The social networking module is a software module that allows the user to access social networking content. For example the social networking module may inform the user which of the available images are the most popular over all the most popular for certain genders or age groups or the most popular for certain events such as birthdays. The social networking module may contain user or consumer reviews of certain images. The social networking module may also suggest ways that images can be altered using the image editing module . The social networking module interacts with the image library module to allow the user to purchase images identified in the social networking module .

The augmented reality module is a software module that allows the user to access augmented reality content when the system detects a valid augmented reality marker. The system can print images onto edible media that contain embedded augmented reality markers. The user can then display the decorated edible media to a video device. In certain configurations this video device is a web camera. The local control device sends the video data to the central control device . The augmented reality module on the central control device scans the incoming video signal and identifies a valid augmented reality marker. The augmented reality module will respond by displaying augmented reality content. For example in certain implementations the augmented reality marker may be embedded in an image of a princess that is used to decorate a cake. The augmented reality module may display a singing and dancing princess in response to recognizing the augmented reality marker.

The training module is a software module that includes training content which instructs users on how to use the decorating system. The training module may contain videos lists of common questions and the answers thereto diagrams or any other training content that user may find useful.

The ordering module is a software module that includes inventory items for a system owner e.g. a bakery owner store owner to access for reordering edible media edible ink replacement parts printheads and other system supplies.

The maintenance module is a software module that includes maintenance menus for updating software hardware or inventory. The maintenance module can additionally provide troubleshooting instructions printer maintenance features testing functions and cleaning functions.

The reporting module is a software module that includes mechanisms for reporting on sales inventory customers errors malfunctions and other events occurring in system . In some embodiments reporting data can be exported to comma delimited files Excel files or exported to particular reporting software. The reporting module can additionally provide site metric reporting via NetInsight Google analytics or similar site metric reporting software.

The messaging module is a software module that includes mechanisms for generating and sending electronic messages to users. For example the messaging module may send an electronic message to specific user accounts or groups of user accounts based on previous purchases. The messaging module may send system users receipts or other billing information in the form of a message. The messaging module may also send advertising content or fliers to known users. In some configurations the messaging module sends messages to system managers or store managers regarding system updates or image updates.

Security module is a software module that handles secure socket connections from local control device . For example following authentication through login procedures through a software web browser central control device can establish additional secure connections to the same local control device with software modules separate from the software web browser. Functionality not incorporated into the software web browser on local control device can interact with the software modules on central control device through security module . Interaction with software modules on central control device can proceed through multiple software applications on local control device . In certain implementations security module handles secure transmission of both licensed image data and financial data for purchases of licensed images. In other illustrative implementations security module handles secure transmission of financial data for purchases of licensed images but does not apply security policies to licensed image data. In certain embodiments HTTP hypertext transfer protocol can be used for transmitting payment and or image data such as in the form of unsecured HTTPS or secured HTTPS. In other embodiments FTP file transfer protocol can be used for transmitting payment and or image data. Alternatively SMTP simple mail transfer protocol can be used for data transfer.

Additional modules can be included in system . For example service oriented third party applications can be merged or supplied as add ins as appropriate. Similarly online advertising content Internet access FLASH applications database management online shopping and other services may be offered in system

The software modules on local control device include authentication modules parallel connection modules parallel browser modules color management modules and or printer communication modules. Additional modules are possible. The described software modules can be selectively combined to form a multifunctional software module or split into multiple software modules.

The authentication module interacts with the parallel connection module . Upon successful verification of an authenticated session between the software web browser on local control device and central control device via network the authentication module causes parallel connection module to establish a second connection to central control device in parallel to the connection used by the software web browser on local control device . In some implementations the parallel connection is established automatically after authentication of a secure connection for the software web browser by authentication module . In other embodiments the second connection is established based on user request. The parallel connection module connects with the security module shown in . In certain implementations parallel connection module may utilize the connection created by the software web browser for communication with central control device .

In certain configurations the second connection occurs over the network used by the software web browser. In other implementations the second connection occurs over a network different from network . The connection established by the parallel connection module can use identical networking protocols or encryption protocols to the connection utilized by the software web browser or can use a different networking and or encryption protocols.

In some embodiments the second connection persists despite the initial connection between the software web browser on local control device and central control device being terminated. In other configurations the second connection terminates concurrently with termination of the first connection between the software web browser on local control device and the central control device .

The parallel connection module interacts with parallel browser module . Parallel browser module utilizes the secure socket connection with central control device over the second connection created by the parallel connection module . Access to software modules on central control device including the image library are accessible to the parallel browser module concurrently with accessibility from the software web browser on local control device . In certain implementations the software web browser on local control device is a generic web browser. The software web browser on central control device can be implemented as 3.sup.rd party software with closed proprietary or undocumented application programming interfaces and or security profiles that deny access to system functions including local file system access or low level printer control commands. In other embodiments the software web browser on local control device provides a documented application programming interface API for the software web browser to interact with other software installed on local control device . Parallel browser module can co exist on local control device with either implementation of software web browser on local control device .

In certain configurations parallel browser module provides a streamlined user interface for accessing software modules residing on central control device . The parallel browser module can be implemented in a variety of programming languages or development environments. In certain implementations the parallel browser module can be implemented as an Adobe Integrated Runtime AIR application. In the AIR application the parallel browser module acts as a cross platform browser based runtime application. In other embodiments parallel browser module can be implemented in C using Qt libraries. In the C Qt framework implementation the parallel browser module acts as a web enabled cross platform application and UI framework with access to system functions such as the local file system.

The parallel browser module is implemented as a Rich Internet Application providing both local file system access and remote web content access. For example remote web content including but not limited to thumbnail representations of licensed images from image library module can be downloaded by parallel browser module and stored in a local cache residing on the local file system of local control device providing low latency rendering of images during image manipulation events including browsing and editing. In other embodiments the parallel browser module is implemented in a software package complying with security policies that permit remote web content access but not local file system access or vice versa. Local cache contents are in a custom format that prevents users from extracting local cache contents for unauthorized editing and or printing of cached licensed images.

The parallel browser module on local control device exchanges data with central control device over the same network connection established by the software web browser. In select implementations the software web browser utilized an unsecured connection such as HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol . The software web browser utilizes a secured connection such as HTTPS HTTP with secure socket layer SSL transport layer security TLS performing security procedures including but not limited to server authentication client authentication and secure encryption key exchange.

The parallel browser module on local control device exchanges data with central control device over a network connection different than the network connection established by the software web browser. The separate connection established by the parallel browser module can either be secured or unsecured independent of if the software web browser connection is secured or unsecured.

The parallel browser module is capable of sending and receiving separate classes of data on different connections and or different connection security profiles. For example image data from image library module may be received by the parallel browser module over an unsecure HTTP connection between the parallel browser module and the central control device while financial data may be sent from the local control device to central control device over a secure connection established by the software web browser. In another example embodiment both image data and financial data may be sent over a secure connection established by either the software web browser or the parallel brower module .

Parallel browser module bypasses existing print drivers provided by the operating system when printing. When bypassing operating system print drivers parallel browser module interacts with a color management module . The color management module provides color matching and correction to print data provided by print module on central control device . Color encoding on print data propagating from print module may be indexed by a color representation scheme as known in the art.

In certain configurations the color representation scheme is as described by the International Color Consortium ICC . The ICC specification uses the CIE color profile and is widely used and is referred to in many International and other de facto standards and was approved as an International Standard ISO 15076 1 which is incorporated herein by reference. A standardized color representation scheme such as the ISO 15076 1 ensures color rendition accuracy despite variations in color detection and production across image capture devices e.g. scanners image display devices e.g. monitors and image reproduction devices e.g. printers . Color management module provides a color managed workflow from source image to printer output applying color representation transformations that ensure accurate color representation in each color domain. The general principles of color managed workflows using the ICC Color management Model have been described variously for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 161 710 to MacLoed et al assigned to Adobe Systems Incorporated which is incorporated herein by reference.

In some implementations color profile information is embedded in the image provided by the print module . In other embodiments color profile information is retrieved separately from the image data provided by the print module . In certain configurations a separate image color profile for the display device connected to the local control device is applied to the retrieved image. In other implementations the display device connected to local control device is not color corrected using any color profile.

Application of color correction to print devices is independent of application of color correction to display devices. In certain embodiments a user can automatically retrieve the corresponding color profile for a printing device connected to local control device based on hardware model information for printer . In other cases the user can provide their own color profile based on color spectrography measurements performed on printed outputs of printer .

The color management module interacts with a printer communication module . The printer communication module provides communication to a printer device connected to local control device without utilizing printer drivers installed on the operating system on local control device . In certain configurations printer communication module automatically detects the model number of the attached printer and downloads corresponding software through the second connection established by parallel connection module . In other implementations printer communication module includes pre installed software for several different print hardware manufacturers and or vendors. In further embodiments printer communication capabilities provided by the printer communication module are not dependent on specific cartridge reservoirs utilized by the printer.

Parallel web browser module is associated with network address identification information. In certain embodiments network address identification information allows modules residing on the local control device to interact with one another without networks external to the local control device such as a LAN MAN or the Internet. In other embodiments network address identification information only allows modules residing on the local control device to interact with one another through an external network connection with or without messages passing through the central control device .

Parallel web browser module and the software web browser on the local control device communicate with a pre defined message format and message exchange patterns. In an illustrative embodiment the Simple Open Access Protocol SOAP is utilized. Alternatives communication schemes for exchanging complex data structures include but are not limited to Extensible Markup Language Remote Procedure Call XML RPC .

Additional modules can be included in system . For example media players advertising displays and other services may be offered in system

User accounts can be managed by an administrator e.g. a bakery or store owner . The administrator typically configures an administrative profile where administrative tasks can be carried out. For example the system owner can log in to an administrative profile for configuring the system reviewing inventory reports and purchasing consumables. The administrative profile can also include options to create additional user accounts update or modify users or passwords generate contact lists browse and order consumables view order or purchase histories modify language parameters e.g. Spanish English Mandarin French etc. manage licensed image assets edit pricing etc.

A web host server within central control device is configured by the administrator to allow users to select particular edible items select customization options and preview designed products before printing. The administrator can add or remove User Interface controls to provide or remove functionality in the GUI. For example the administrator can modify a User Interface within the web host server to ensure all design modification buttons are presented in one interface. This can provide the advantage of allowing the user to quickly modify designs without having to move through multiple screens.

In one example the web host server includes updatable links with i helpful hints and exceptional cake design examples ii how to instructions iii frequently asked questions iv tips and tricks from other users and v online demonstration videos just to name a few example links. In some configurations a full help section is integrated into the system including tool tips videos etc.

In some implementations the web host server includes notification and messaging functionality. For example the web host server may include calendar integration options complete with scheduling and reminder notifications for particular holidays birthdays etc. The notification functionality can also include customized templates or projects which can be attached to the notifications. For example if a company provides customized birthday cakes for all employees the company can create a birthday template coupled to each employee s birthday date in a reminder notification. The notifications can be configured to email a customer for example in advance of an event requiring configuration of an edible media item.

In some embodiments the web host server includes advanced browsing options with predictive text and faceted search filters. As such a customer can easily navigate images and enter text in an expedited fashion. The web host server is operable to attach metadata or categorical information to particular images frames characters or reminders to facilitate users in improving design time for preparing an image for printing.

The websites hosted in system can include menus buttons and other controls. The websites generally include standard website content such as contact information privacy policies warranty information a site map advertising content social media content and licensing information. Other content may be provided in websites hosted in the system .

The systems disclosed herein can provide image manipulation functions. Image manipulation functions can be performed in the GUI in a mocked up on screen version of the final product. Users can modify image media backgrounds frames and text within the system . Functions for modifying and editing images include but are not limited to color skewing cropping zooming rotating conversion to black white or grayscale and filtering. Images can be previewed stretched scaled skewed or otherwise manipulated in a Graphical User Interface to obtain a desired result for the user. Text can be added removed or otherwise modified. For example text can be arced for a round design or angled for special effects. Text can be entered by a user or selected from a list of standard common phrases such as Happy Birthday Congratulations or Happy Anniversary to name a few examples. In some configurations watermarks can be added graphically and printed onto the edible media.

The systems disclosed herein can provide media authentication for licensed images. For example the system validates particular licensed images for printing based on user information image information and or product information. The system provides an inventory system with trackable records. Each trackable record contains information regarding unique lot numbers assigned to each image to ensure image disclosures can be accounted for. Each trackable record can additionally contain quantity information for a product and media type compatible with such a product. Trackable records can be linked to user logs to determine customer accounts that activated particular products or images. This can be used to track lot numbers for recall purposes for example. In some implementations the trackable records can be used as an advertising tool to market to one or more specific customer.

In some embodiments the system prevents unauthorized usage of licensed images by preventing the system and or user from locally saving a licensed image. In addition the system prevents unauthorized usage of licensed images by preventing the user from accessing a particular licensed image more than once in one session for example. Other mechanisms of preventing unauthorized usage of licensed images can be implemented. Low level image processing such as applying ICC color management can still occur in the presence of the above mechanisms for preventing unauthorized image usage.

Upon determining one or more items for purchase users can choose to checkout and purchase such items. The checkout process generally leverages standard e commerce functionality using application programming interfaces APIs for performing transactions. The APIs can integrate functionality such as shopping carts shipping options order preview order confirmation payment options add remove functions etc. The checkout process guides the user through transactions. In some configurations the checkout process can additionally manage reporting and accounting functions.

The online environment in system may represent a website hosting one or more software modules. Software modules in this example include an edible media module and a user account module . The edible media module is a software module that includes information about edible media that is available for purchase including current availability and inventory statistics. The user account module is a software module that includes user accounts having profiles of information regarding particular users such as financial information and address information. The user account module can be configured to process financial transactions.

The user accesses a User Interface element in the website such as GUI to access the user account module . The user account module presents a logon screen to the user and requests entry of a username and password. The user inputs the user name and password to login and the user is logged into the system . In certain illustrative embodiments in the event that the user forgets login credentials an additional prompt permits the user to input identification information such as the answer to a preselected security question a PIN or an e mail address to authenticate the user s request either to reset login credentials or request secure delivery of login credentials.

The username and password may or may not be secure when sent from the software web browser to central control device . For example the username password may be encapsulated in TCP IP packets as unencrypted plain text. Alternatively username and password information may be secured over SSL TLS.

The user account module displays navigation menus . The navigation menus include a number of options representing different ways that the user may use the system . Options can include but are not limited to quick launch items e.g. quick copy quick upload quick print etc. photograph manipulation options framing configuration options artwork selection and manipulation options purchasing options e.g. enter media codes user data etc. ordering options e.g. pre order forms PhotoCake configuring options settings options and administrative options e.g. shut down restart test system etc. . The user can also choose to open a prior design to print copies on new edible media. Other options are possible.

The edible media module provides an option to select to search for edible media . For example the edible media module offers the user the option of searching for specific edible media or browsing through a catalogue of edible media. The user navigates through the catalogue and selects the edible media that the user wishes to purchase . In some implementations the user is provided an option to select multiple types of edible media in a single purchase. When the user has selected the desired edible media the user instructs the user account module that the user is ready to complete the purchase . The user is directed to the user account module which processes the purchase of the edible media.

The user account module prompts the user to enter the user s financial information . The user may enter credit card information or bank account information for direct debit. In certain embodiments the user account module may store the user s financial information. The user has the option of using previously used financial information that is remembered by the user account module . In an illustrative embodiment the user is presented with a screen to allow verification of purchase details before finalizing a purchase. The user account module then completes the purchase by charging the user according to the information that has been entered. In certain embodiments the user has agreement terms that do not require purchase procedures to be executed for each individual image and instead purchase procedures are applied to a batch of images periodically such as at monthly billing cycle.

In some configurations the user account module provides an option for shipping purchased edible media to the user. The user account module may request additional information such as an address the edible media should be sent to or which shipping method the user prefers. Alternatively the user account module may retain previously used address information in which case the user may choose to use previously stored information. The user completes the process by logging off of the system .

The online environment includes an Internet website hosting a user account module and an image library module . The user account module is a software module that includes user accounts containing profiles of information regarding particular users. The image library module is a software module containing a searchable and browsable library of images.

The principal user accesses the user account module and logs in to the principal user s account by entering the principal user s user name and password. The principal user is shown a navigation menu containing a number of selectable options .

The principal user selects to designate secondary users . The principal user is then prompted for information regarding the secondary users and how such secondary users will be identified . For example the principal user may be asked to enter unique user names and passwords for secondary users. Alternatively the principal user may enter email or physical address information for the secondary users. The secondary users may be sent instructions on how to access their new secondary user accounts. The user account module saves the information given on the secondary users and associates the secondary user accounts with the principal user s account.

The image library module allows the principal user to search for authorized images for the secondary users . The principal user searches or browses through available images using keyword criteria such as Disney or Princess or Birthday. The principal user selects images or groups or categories of images that will be authorized for the secondary users and the image library module receives the selections .

Once the principal user has finished searching through the images and selecting images the principal user selects to associate particular images and the user account module associates the selected images with the particular secondary users.

The user account module displays the designated secondary users and the principal user associates the selected images groups or images or categories of images with specific users. The principal user designates different authorized images for users in different geographic locations and or authorized lists. The principal user can subsequently log off of the system .

Referring now to an Internet website includes a number of modules . An edible media module is a software module that includes information about which edible media are compatible with the system and characteristics of the individual types of edible media. The edible media module includes a database of unique codes and information on whether or not the particular codes have been used or not.

A user account module is a software module that includes profiles of information regarding particular users. The user account module allows or disallows users to login to user accounts using a username and a password. The user account module also stores financial information and address information about the user and processes financial transactions.

A license module is a software module that includes information about system licensing to certain images. System licensing information may include data identifying where particular images can be sold by geographic location and if and or how the images may be edited.

An image library module is a software module that includes a searchable and browsable library of images. The image library module also allows the user to upload images from local image sources to use in the system.

An image editing module is a software module that allows a user to edit images. A print module is a software module that provides data to a local control device for printing of selected images onto edible media using a specific color profile for a particular printer. A training module is a software module that includes training content that instructs users to use the system . A user location module is a software module that identifies the geographic location of the user. The user location module can ensure that licensing restrictions are obeyed. In addition the user location module can allow principal users to control which images are offered for sale to secondary users in certain geographic zones. A social networking module is a software module that allows a user to access social networking content and resources.

In operation the user inserts an edible media into the printer. The user accesses the user account module using the GUI and logs into the user s account by entering the user s unique username and password. The system displays a menu containing a number of navigation options .

The user selects the training module to learn how to use the system to decorate edible media . The training content may be any content that aids the user in using the system. In certain embodiments the training module may contain video demonstrations written instructions and lists of common questions and answers. The user selects the training content for viewing and the training module presents the selected training content to the user .

After viewing the training content the user can choose an image to use to decorate an edible media . The user can additionally select an image source. The user may choose a local image source an online image source or the image library in the image library module for example. In this example the user selects the image library as the image source .

The system accesses the user location module and determines the geographic location of the user . In certain configurations the user location module determines the geographic location by looking up the user s IP address and associating the user s IP address with a geographic location. Other methods of determining the user s geographic location may be used.

After the user s geographic location is determined the system accesses the license module and determines whether any licensing restrictions exist for the selected images in the user s geographic location . For example the system may determine the user s physical address from an authorization list and verifies whether any licensing restrictions exist. If licensing restrictions exist for the user s geographic location the system narrows the number of images provided to the user.

If licensing restrictions do not exist for the user or the user s geographic location and or the user is on an authorized list the system can provide the user with all licensed images. The system can additionally provide free images non copyright images or third party designed images.

Referring now to upon determining whether licensing restrictions exist the license module informs the image library module whether any of the images are restricted and or are on an authorized list that can override restrictions such as restrictions based on the user s location . The system identifies whether there are any restrictions from the user account module on the images that the particular user is authorized to purchase . For example the particular user may be a secondary user in which case a principal user may have previously instructed the system which images the secondary user is authorized to purchase. If the particular user has restrictions on which images the user is authorized to purchase the user account module sends the list of authorized images to the image library module .

The image library module receives information on which images are available to the particular user from both the user account module and the license module . The image library module restricts access to unauthorized images from the library of image options available to the user . The image library module displays to the user a searchable and browsable library of images available to the user for purchase or use . The user may search through the images using word searching or alternatively by browsing through image categories and viewing all images in a category.

The edible media module displays a list of the edible media that may be used with the system . The image library module then displays the images that are authorized for the user to purchase and that are compatible with the edible media that the user is decorating . The user selects from the list of edible media the type of edible media that is being decorated . Examples of options for edible media include but are not limited to standard media with sizes of and sheet or precut media of sizes 8 inch round 3 inch round or 2 inch round or Designer Prints.

In some implementations the user can choose to access the social networking module to aid the user in choosing an image. The social networking module can be used in a number of ways. For example the social networking module may inform the user which of the available images are the most popular overall the most popular for certain genders or age groups or the most popular for certain events such as birthdays holidays or other events. The social networking module may include user or consumer reviews of certain images. The social networking module can suggest ways that images can be altered using the image editing module .

Referring now to the user can request to view one or more libraries of images. The image library module displays at least one searchable library of authorized images for the user selected media type . The user selects to view social networking options and selects a social networking option to view the social networking content .

The user selects an image and instructs the system that the user wishes to purchase the image . The user account module checks to see whether the user has sufficient credit to purchase the image . If the user does not have sufficient credit the user has the option of purchasing more credit . The user is prompted to enter financial information such as a credit card to be charged or a bank account for direct debit. Alternatively the user may choose to use previously entered financial information stored in the user s account in the user account module . In some embodiments the user may enter address information and request an invoice of a printing purchasing transaction. In the event that the user has sufficient credit the user is asked to confirm the purchase. Upon confirmation by the user the purchase is completed and the credit is deducted from the user s account .

In some configurations the user may choose to edit the purchased image . Editing a purchased image can be performed using the image editing module . Referring now to the image editing module verifies with the license module that the user is authorized to modify the image. The verification identifies restrictions on editing particular images . If a license does not prevent the image from being altered then the user makes desired edits to the image . The user may be able to crop rotate resize brighten darken re touch and perform other operations to the selected image. In certain embodiments the user can save the edited image for later use or continued editing.

The user selects to print the image . The print module prepares print data and the edible media module prompts the user to enter a code . The user can find the code e.g. edible media code in a location on the edible media or on the packaging and documentation sent to the user with the edible media.

The user inputs the edible media code . The edible media module verifies that the inputted code is valid and that the code has not been previously used .

The user is prompted to input a printer type for use in printing on the edible media . The image library module stores different versions of the same image that are compatible with different printer color profiles. The print module ensures that an image compatible with the color profile of each selected printer is sent to local control device .

Once the printer information is input the print module provides the user the option of viewing a preview of the image printed onto the selected edible media. If the user wishes to see a preview then the image is displayed to the user . If the user declines or once the preview has been shown then the user is asked to confirm the generation of print data. Once the user confirms the print the print information is sent to the local control device for printing onto an edible media . Upon completion of the printing process the user selects to log off the system . Alternatively the user can remain logged on to process additional images to print.

At any point the user can choose to clear a design in progress or reset the design in progress to a previous state. This option provides the user an efficient mechanism to remove mistakes or simply begin a new design.

The embedded augmented reality marker may be any asymmetrical geometric shape with at least two colors of sufficiently high contrast to allow the augmented reality marker to be recognized when scanning image frames within a video signal. The augmented reality marker shape is not required to be related to the augmented reality content but can be any geometric and asymmetrical shape.

The augmented reality content may be any content that combines reality with virtual reality. For example the augmented reality marker may be embedded in an image of a popular cultural figure or may be the figure itself. The augmented reality content shown to the user could be a display of the cultural figure from the image singing and dancing. In another example the augmented reality content could be the opportunity to purchase items related to the image which are otherwise unavailable for purchase.

The system prints an image with an embedded augmented reality marker onto an edible media . For example the printing can be performed using the process of . After printing the image with an embedded augmented reality marker onto the edible media the system accesses the augmented reality module on the website. In certain implementations the user enters a web address into the web browser of the local control device and selects the augmented reality module .

The user identifies the video device . For example the user instructs the augmented reality module of the source of the incoming video signal. The augmented reality module prompts the user to enter a specific video device location. The augmented reality module may communicate with the local control device to determine which video devices are installed for use on the local control device . In some embodiments the augmented reality module can display to the user a list of possible video devices for the user to select a particular device. The user selects a video device.

The augmented reality module scans incoming video signal . The augmented reality module scans the incoming video signal to detect the video signal for a valid augmented reality marker.

The user displays the edible media containing the augmented reality marker to the video device . The video device thus captures video footage of the augmented reality marker and sends the video signal to the augmented reality module on the system controller.

The augmented reality module recognizes the augmented reality marker . The augmented reality module can continually or periodically scan incoming video data to detect other valid augmented reality markers. When the user displays an edible media with an augmented reality marker printed upon the media to the video device the augmented reality module recognizes the marker in the incoming video signal. The augmented reality module responds to the user by displaying augmented reality content . In an illustrative embodiment augmented reality content transmitted over network is displayed on the local control device .

The system includes a printing system connected to the Internet which receives an edible medium . The edible medium may be selected by the user and placed within the system for example.

The system receives a first user input identifying a user of the system . For example a user logs into the system using a username and password. The system determines whether the user is a registered user or a new user .

The system receives a second user input selecting at least one licensed image . For example a user enters a request to select a copyrighted cartoon character for printing on a cake top. In some configurations the system can limit the available licensed images shown to the user according to the user s geographic location and or authorization list. The system retrieves the at least one licensed image from an Internet repository . Upon retrieving the licensed image of the copyrighted cartoon character the system generates an invoice for the user if the user is a registered user. If the user is an unregistered user or a new user the system requests payment information to ensure the licensed image is purchased before printing occurs . Upon verifying payment the system prints the selected licensed image onto the selected edible medium. In some implementations the system enables the user to digitally edit the selected image prior to printing the selected image onto the edible medium.

The system receives a print selected image request . Either licensed or unlicensed images can be printed using the process .

The print module checks the source of the incoming print request . In this example the source is identified as the software web browser. In certain embodiments the print module checks the source by evaluating identifier packets within a data stream. In other configurations the print module recognizes network addresses to identify source applications for a particular data packet.

Upon identifying the source of the print request print module forwards print data over the corresponding secure connection. In this example print data is forwarded over the secure connection between the software web browser on the local control device and the central control device in system .

After the software web browser receives print data from print module over a secure connection the software web browser invokes an internal print environment .

Based on the software web browser s internal print environment a particular print driver installed within the operating system on local control device is invoked by the software web browser . In various implementations the print driver is implemented by a vendor or manufacturer of the printer in some cases using proprietary or not publicly documented code.

The invoked print driver generates a byte stream compatible with the target printer and queues the print task in the operating system s printer spooler . For example at 600 vertical dpi dots per inch 600 horizontal dpi 8.5 by 11 inches 4 colors and 8 bits per color a 134 Megabyte raw byte stream is created. In certain embodiments the software web browser s internal print service and the print driver installed on the operating system are based on proprietary or non documented code. In other configurations certain elements of the software web browser s internal print service or the print driver installed on the operating system provide an open or documented interface allowing print data propagated from print module to be modified prior to being delivered to the operating system printer spooler.

The operating system s printer spooler queues print tasks for the particular printer hardware. The operating system can queue multiple print jobs in the spooler while the printer executes tasks on the queue at a throughput dependent on printing configuration and hardware technology. The printer eventually processes the print corresponding to the requested image . In certain implementations tasks within the spooler can be rearranged such that the print request corresponding to may be processed out of first in first out order.

The system receives a print selected image request . Either licensed or unlicensed images can be printed using the process

The print module checks the source of the incoming print request. In this example the source is identified as the parallel browser module . In certain embodiments the print module checks the source by evaluating identifier packets within a data stream. In other configurations the print module recognizes network addresses to identify source applications for a particular data packet.

Upon identifying the source of the print request print module forwards print data over the corresponding secure connection. In this example the print module forwards print data over the secure connection between the parallel browser module on the local control device and the central control device in system .

After the parallel browser module receives print data from print module over a secure connection the parallel browser module bypasses the operating system s printer drivers and forwards print data to the color management module . The color management module applies color correction by converting from the color profile of the image to the color profile of the particular printing device in order to maintain color consistency. In certain implementations color management module also provides color space conversion such as between CMYK and RGB as necessary and converts to the bit depth required by the printer such as 8 bits or 16 bits. In some embodiments color management module also performs linearization and half tone control to improve image reproduction. In an illustrative embodiment color management module does not entirely rely on operating system color management functions resulting in an installation independent framework for color management. Color management functions may be implemented in an open source implementation such as the Little Color Management System LCMS or in a proprietary implementation such as EFI s Colorproof XF software.

Color corrected print data is propagated to printer communication module . The printer communication module creates a byte stream compatible with the intended printer and queues the print task in the operating system s printer spooler .

The operating system s printer spooler queues print tasks for particular printer hardware to print. The printer eventually processes the print corresponding to the requested image .

Referring now to a central control device and local control device shown in system includes a number of modules . A parallel connection module is a software module that establishes a secondary connection between central control device and local control device . This secondary connection is in parallel with a connection between a software web browser residing on local control device and the central control device .

A user account module is a software module that includes profiles of information regarding particular users. The user account module allows or disallows users to login to user accounts using a username and a password. The user account module also stores financial information and address information about the user and processes financial transactions. Following successful login central control device provides local control device with user identification data. In some embodiments parallel web browser module may receive user identification data directly from central control device . In other embodiments parallel web browser module may receive user identification data through the software web browser.

In certain embodiments Parallel web browser module receives user identification data through the associated network address identification information and following reception of user identification data parallel web browser module remains independently operable from the software web browser during the duration of an active socket connection between parallel web browser module and the software web browser.

In an illustrative embodiment a valid user login session for parallel web browser module is determined by the inclusion of unexpired user identification data such as a unique token provided by central control device in communications between the central control device and local control device .

A license module is a software module that includes information about system licensing to certain images. System licensing information may include data identifying where particular images can be sold and if and or how the images may be edited.

A parallel browser module is a software module that provides a GUI to software modules shown in such as the image library module which allows the user to upload images from local image sources to use in the system and the image editing module which allows a user to edit images. An authentication module is a software module that verifies successful login to the user account module before permitting parallel browser module to establish a connection. A print module is a software module that initiates the printing of selected images onto edible media using a specific color profile for a particular printer. A color management module is a software module that applies color correction algorithms to images provided by print module . A printer communication module is a software module that encodes color corrected output into a byte stream compatible with a particular printer.

Prior to process the user utilizes a software web browser to log into a secure site establish an account and download an application installer. The application installer creates modules including but not limited to the parallel browser module authentication module color management module and printer communication module on the local control device .

Process begins with execution of the authentication module . Execution can occur manually through the GUI or automatically through startup events during operating system bootup. Following execution authentication module enters an inactive state and is activated manually via GUI or automatically using a threshold condition such as elapsed time . Upon activation authentication module verifies if a secure session with user account module through a software web browser has already been established . Following detection of no existing secure session with user account module authentication module initiates an instance of a software web browser residing on local control device . Authentication module causes the new instance of the software web browser to navigate to an Internet website providing access to the user account module the website displaying a prompt for user login credentials .

Following successful login the parallel browser module is activated . In certain implementations parallel browser module can be activated from a navigation option shown within the software web browser used for login procedures. In other embodiments parallel browser module can be activated externally from the software web browser such as an icon in GUI .

In each method of activating parallel browser module parallel connection module first establishes a second connection in parallel with the secure connection between the software web browser on local control device and the website server on central control device . In certain configurations the second parallel connection is automatically terminated when the first secure connection is terminated. In other implementations the second connection established by parallel connection module persists after the first secure connection module is terminated.

Referring now to following establishment of a second connection by parallel connection module parallel browser module displays a menu containing a number of navigation options . In another embodiment for instance when parallel browser module interacts with software modules that the software web browser is not capable of interaction with parallel browser module displays more navigation options than displayed in the software web browser such as color correction page layout and printer configuration options. In other configurations independent of if parallel browser module is communicable with more software modules than the software web browser parallel browser module displays fewer navigation options. In this example parallel browser module displays options relating to designing edible media and does not display options available in the software web browser such as subscription information account management and customer alerts.

After parallel browser module displays navigation options the user can choose an image to use to decorate an edible media. The user may choose images from a local image source an online image source or the image library in the image library module of . In this example the user selects the image library as the image source .

The system can perform operations not explicitly shown in . As one example the system can access the user location module shown in and determine the geographic location of the user. After the user s geographic location is determined the system can access the license module and determine whether any licensing restrictions exist for images in the user s geographic location. The system narrows the number of images provided to the user in parallel browser module based on licensing restrictions .

Parallel browser module displays to the user a searchable and browsable library of images available to the user for purchase or use . The user may search through the images using word searching or alternatively by browsing through image categories and viewing all images in a category. While not shown in this example in some embodiments the user can choose to access the social networking module shown in to aid the user in choosing an image.

The user selects an image and instructs the system that the user wishes to purchase the image . In some configurations the user account module prompts the user through parallel browser module to enter financial information such as a credit card to be charged or a bank account for direct debit. Alternatively as shown in this example the user account module operates in the background to utilize payment data associated with the unique username and password used for establishing the first secure connection between the software web browser and web server without interrupting the process of designing the edible media.

Referring now to following image selection the user selects an edible media type . Examples of options for edible media include but are not limited to standard media with sizes of and sheet or precut media of sizes 8 inch round 3 inch round or 2 inch round.

In some implementations the user may choose to edit the purchased image from within the parallel browser module . The user may crop rotate resize stretch to width stretch to height brighten darken re touch and perform other operations to the selected image. The parallel browser module also permits the user to undo operations navigate back to a previous options interface or navigate to the next options interface.

In some embodiments the user may choose to add text to the purchased image . In one option the user can select from a list of phrases such as Congratulations Bon Voyage or Happy Birthday. In another option the user can type a custom phrase. The user may be able to bend a phrase upwards or downwards to varying degrees of curvature straighten a phrase change font type font color and select left right or centered justification. Furthermore the user may be able to crop rotate resize stretch to width stretch to height brighten darken re touch and perform other operations to the text independently or in conjunction with the selected image. The parallel browser module also permits the user to undo operations navigate back to a previous options interface or navigate to the next options interface.

The user selects print options after the parallel browser module prompts the user for print options such as number of prints for the particular image . Other examples include but are not limited to print orientation image tiling and providing grayscale or color options for a given image or print region. Parallel browser module passes on print options to print module . In some cases the user is prompted to input a printer type for use in printing on the edible media.

The image library module shown in stores different versions of the same image that are compatible with different printer color profiles. The print module ensures that an image compatible with the color profile of each selected printer is transmitted to the local control device for printing .

Upon receiving print data from print module over the secure second connection between local control device and central control device parallel browser module forwards print data to color management module .

Referring now to color management module applies color correction by converting from the color profile of the image to the color profile of the particular printing device in order to maintain color consistency across devices . Color management module provides color correction capabilities to each graphical text photo and artwork element flattening multiple layers into a single bitmap following color correction. Color management module also provides any color space conversion such as between CMYK and RGB as necessary and converts to the bit depth compatible with the printer such as 8 bits or 16 bits . Color management module also performs linearization and half tone control to further improve image reproduction .

Printer communication module bypasses printer drivers installed in the operating system and instead directly encodes a printer compatible byte stream and appends the byte stream to the printer spooler in the operating system . The operating system printer spooler proceeds to execute the print tasks in the queue resulting in an edible media being printed. The printer communication module together with parallel connection module provides a user rights controlled low level print management process for the edible media decorating system .

At any point in the process of the user can choose to clear a design in progress or reset the design in progress to a previous state. This option provides the user an efficient mechanism to remove mistakes or simply begin a new design.

Any number of User Interface elements can be provided to a user of system . The User Interface elements may include multiple screens presented as web pages. As is typical the GUI in system provides a home screen and various other screens available for user navigation. One example home screen may include user selectable controls to perform a quick copy of an image upload or print a photograph select options such as frames or artwork generate an order create a design and modify system settings.

The quick copy control can be selected by a user to initiate a scanner for uploading an image and quickly copying the image to a system repository. The quick copy control can provide instructions onscreen to the user for accomplishing the quick copy. The instructions may include text graphics and or video content. The instructions can be provided in a user selectable language.

The upload or print a photograph control can be selected to upload and print a photograph. The photograph control can instruct a user to identify a media source e.g. scanner CD USB Flash card web camera etc. . The photograph control can request that the user verify media settings and upon verification the control can upload the photograph. The user can choose to edit the uploaded photograph and print the uploaded photograph with applied editing.

Options such as selecting frames or artwork are selected by the user to invoke the system to configure frames and or artwork for printing. The configuration options can for example include verifying original media settings and selecting a frame or artwork item. The system can retrieve the frame and or artwork and allow the user to perform edits. The users can additionally edit a particular edible media e.g. topping before printing the frame and or artwork on the edible media.

The order form control can be used to generate an order. For example users can choose to generate and complete a number of standard order forms. Example order forms include a licensed artwork order form a licensed frames order form a general order form a customer cake order form and a customer deli order form. In some configurations users can print an order form and manually request an edible media print or product.

Other controls can be provided to present other information about the system and or inventory available to the system . For example controls can be provided to present inventory management items such as quarterly purchase reports complete purchase history reports on hand inventory reports and the like.

Another example control can include options or screens for modifying system settings including default color and default fonts. Users may also wish to customize a user account associated with the websites hosted on system . For example a user may wish to change a color scheme or font size when logging into one or more websites hosted on system .

Another example control can provide maintenance checklists and tasks for an administrative user. The maintenance controls may only be visible to the administrative user upon login. Other standard system users may not view or access the maintenance controls and or menus.

In some implementations the User Interface can provide links to copyright release forms copyright statement forms or other legal documents. Users can choose to preview and or print the legal documents on demand.

The User Interface contains a region to select between display languages. Region displays the subscriber s name software version number of licensed image credits available and the number of print media available. Region provides a navigation option to return to the software web browser to display the User Interface for the MyPhotoCake webpage. Region shown without a text label in this example provides a quick link to a webpage in a software web browser providing technical support and frequently asked questions relating to the User Interface . In alternative implementations region can include a text label.

The User Interface also contains a region for the user to choose what to print on a topping including Photo Image and Frame Photo sources.

User Interface includes a region to select between display languages. Region displays the subscriber s name software version number of licensed image credits available and the number of print media available. Region provides a navigation option to return to the software web browser to display the User Interface for the MyPhotoCake webpage. Region provides a quick link to a webpage in a software web browser providing technical support and frequently asked questions relating to the User Interface . Region provides the option to navigate backwards or forwards within the Create Cake User Interface sequence. User Interface also includes a topping selection region which provides multiple topping options including but not limited to standard media with sizes of and sheet or precut media of sizes 8 inch round 3 inch round or 2 inch round. User Interface also includes topping selection preview region which allows a user to preview changes to the image based on a selected topping configuration in real time.

User Interface also includes a topping editing region which provides multiple topping editing options. Editing options include but are not limited to crop rotate resize stretch to width and stretch to height.

Editing options also include the choice to add text. The user can select from a list of phrases such as Congratulations Bon Voyage or Happy Birthday or the user can type a custom phrase. The user may be able to bend a phrase upwards or downwards to varying degrees of curvature straighten a phrase change font type font color and select left right or centered justification.

User Interface also includes topping editing preview region which allows a user to preview changes to the image based on a selected edits in real time.

User Interface includes a region to select between display languages. Region displays the subscriber s name software version number of licensed image credits available and the number of print media available. Region provides a navigation option to return to the software web browser to display the User Interface for the MyPhotoCake webpage. Region provides to the user a searchable and browsable library of frame images available to the user. The user may search through the frame images using word searching or alternatively by browsing through image categories and viewing all images in a category. Region provides a scrollable region displaying thumbnails of frame images available to the user based on search results or selected categories from region . To select a particular frame image the user clicks on a thumbnail displayed in region . Following selection of a particular frame image the User Interface of is displayed for the purposes of selecting the local image file to be displayed within the framed area. Subsequent User Interface displays for creating a print of the Frame Photo type proceeds in the same sequence as for the Photo type as described earlier in regards to discussion of nodes of User Interface Tree .

User Interface includes a region to select between display languages. Region displays the subscriber s name software version number of licensed image credits available and the number of print media available. Region provides a navigation option to return to the software web browser to display the User Interface for the MyPhotoCake webpage. Region provides to the user a searchable and browsable library of images available to the user. The user may search through the images using word searching or alternatively by browsing through image categories and viewing all images in a category. Region provides a scrollable region displaying thumbnails of images available to the user based on search results or selected categories from region . To select a particular image the user clicks on a thumbnail displayed in region . Following selection of a particular image the User Interface of is displayed for the purposes of selecting the local image file. Subsequent User Interface displays for creating a print of the Image type proceeds in the same sequence as described earlier in regards to discussion of nodes of User Interface Tree .

Region provides to the user a searchable and browsable library of images available to the user. The user may search through the images using word searching or alternatively by browsing through image categories and viewing all images in a category. Prior to entering a search term or category selection region provides separate scrollable row regions displaying thumbnails of images corresponding to Featured New and Popular Images available to the user. Following entering a search term or category selection region is replaced with a single scrollable region displaying a matrix of thumbnails corresponding to search or category selection results. New images in the Image Library Module are labeled with a NEW marker on the respective thumbnails.

For each thumbnail when the user performs a mouse over the thumbnail is overlaid with details such as an image title and or price as shown in region of . When the user performs a click action on a thumbnail a pop up window appears providing ever further information on the selected image such as copyright information and the option to Add to Favorites or Create this Cake corresponding to the clicked image as shown in region of . The Create this Cake option in takes the user to the User Interface as depicted by the converging branches on node in .

Region provides to the user a searchable and browsable library of exemplary cake designs available to the user. The user may search through the cake designs using word searching or alternatively by browsing through design categories and viewing all cake designs in a category. Prior to entering a search term or category selection region provides separate scrollable row regions displaying thumbnails of cake designs corresponding to Featured and New designs available to the user. Following entering a search term or category selection region is replaced with a single scrollable region displaying a matrix of thumbnails corresponding to search or category selection results. New cake designs are labeled with a NEW marker on the respective thumbnails.

Similar to the Create Cake webpage for each thumbnail when the user performs a mouse over the thumbnail is overlaid with details such as a descriptive title. When the user performs a click action on a thumbnail a pop up window appears providing ever further information on the selected image such as the item number and the image used and the option to Create Cake corresponding to the clicked image. The Create Cake option takes the user to the User Interface as depicted by the converging branches on node in .

The memory stores information within the system . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the system . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device is optionally a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device.

The input output device provides input output operations for the system . In one implementation the input output device includes a keyboard and or pointing device. In another implementation the input output device includes a display unit for displaying Graphical User Interfaces.

In some examples the features described are implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus is optionally implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by a programmable processor and method steps are performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features are optionally implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that are optionally used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program is optionally written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it is deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory are optionally supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features in some instances are implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user provides input to the computer.

The features are optionally implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a Graphical User Interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system are connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system optionally includes clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications are optionally made without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

