---

title: Methods and systems for ranking items on a presentation area based on binary outcomes
abstract: A method includes accessing a number of cards from a database. The cards are ranked in the database based on a test conducted on a number of users. The cards are associated with one or more rule states. The one or more rule states provide binary outcomes of one or more rules. Each rule is identified using a code. The test is conducted by presenting different random sequences of the cards to different users and receiving inputs from the number of users. The method further includes receiving a request for a presentation area from a client device operated by a user. The presentation area is used for displaying the number of cards in an order, which is determined based on the test. The method includes providing the number of cards for display in the order within the presentation area on the client device of the user in response to the request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09529858&OS=09529858&RS=09529858
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09529858
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140306
---
The present disclosure relates generally to methods and systems for ranking items on a presentation area based on binary outcomes.

A great deal of information is provided to people who use electronic devices such as mobile phones to browse the world wide web. The world wide web includes multiple web pages that include a wide variety of information e.g. information regarding music artists political events music events movies etc. A user accesses a web page to find out about current events. However the information on a web page is not presented in an organized manner other than the current occurrence of events. For example two events that occur on the same day is presented simultaneously to the user regardless of whether the user is interested in the events. Users view the unorganized information but do not find the information of interest.

The following detailed description together with the accompanying drawings will provide a better understanding of the nature and advantages of various embodiments described in the present disclosure.

In some embodiments a web page includes news that may be of interest to users. The news is in a form of a featured large module near a top center of the web page. The web page further includes an ordered list of articles e.g. stories etc. an entity that develops and manages the web page believes users will be interested. The ordered list is in the form of a long stream of stories in a central area of the web page. The web page also includes pre selected structured data cards that serve as summary views of snapshot content from categories e.g. sports weather finance etc. along a right side of the web page starting below an ad placement.

In various embodiments a decision is made by the entity to provide an order of the cards on the web page based on a guess by the entity regarding wants of multiple users. This order is broadcasted to every user every time the user visits the web page. The systems and methods for ranking categories on the web page based on binary outcomes provide that when each user is shown a relevant card at a top of a list of cards each time the user visits the web page the user finds the web page more useful than the order that is broadcasted to every user every time the user visits the web page.

In several embodiments the cards belong to a wide range of knowledge domains and a central team e.g. branch subdivision etc. of the entity does not necessarily understand wants of a user in each of those domains in a manner in which a domain owner e.g. a sports product manager a weather product manager etc. understands the wants. In these embodiments each card presents different types of data. For example a video card has a list of links to videos a sports card has a series of game scores and a weather card has forecast data. Various approaches are taken by the central team to assign relevance values to the cards. This is in contrast to the ordered list of articles in which each article has the same relevance metadata and can therefore be compared to any other article.

In various embodiments instead of trying to fit each card into a universal description of cards where metadata is sparse for each card the systems and methods described in the present disclosure treat each card independently. This is done by assigning a series of binary rules that guide relevance for each card.

In some embodiments the methods include defining a rule for each feature of each card. The defining is performed by a ranking server. Once the rules are defined by the ranking server the cards are provided by a web server for presentation on a number of client devices to a randomly selected experimental population of users. During presentation of the cards an order of the cards is randomly selected by the ranking server for each visit to the web page for each user. Moreover on each visit to the web page a state of each of the rules that have been specified for a card is determined by the ranking server and recorded in a memory device of the ranking server. For each visit it is determined and recorded by the ranking server in a memory device of the ranking server whether or not that visit resulted in a relevance event. Examples of a relevance event include a click by a user or a hover by the user or a view by the user or a combination thereof.

After gathering by the ranking server of a large number of samples of these page views by users in some embodiments selections e.g. clicks hovers etc. are modeled by position by the ranking server in a column in which the cards are presented on the web page to determine how a position of a card biases a likelihood that a relevance event will occur. For example a click on one of the cards in an eighth position e.g. slot etc. from a top of a column of the web page is about three times less likely than a click on another one of the cards in a first position from the top in the column. In this example when observing relevance events relevance events that occur for the card in the eighth position are about three times as much as relevance events for the card in the first position. Moreover after gathering the large number of samples a series of rule states to relevance event likelihood mappings is determined by the ranking server. For example for each card a mapping between total page views per card per rule state and total relevance events per card per rule state is determined. With the latter as a numerator and the former as a denominator a normalized relevance score is determined by the ranking server for each card in a given rule state.

In some embodiments the ranking server does not consider a meaning of a rule while receiving and recording a relevance event or while ranking a card. For example the ranking server does not parse a rule to determine an English meaning of the rule. In this example the ranking server does not determine a domain of a card. It takes time and cost to determine the domain of a card.

In some embodiments a method includes accessing a number of cards from a database. The cards are ranked in the database based on a test conducted on a number of users. The cards are associated with one or more rule states. The one or more rule states provide binary outcomes of one or more rules. Each rule is identified using a code. The test is conducted by presenting different random sequences of the cards to different users and receiving inputs from the number of users. The method further includes receiving a request for a presentation area from a client device operated by a user. The presentation area is used for displaying the number of cards in an order which is determined based on the test. The method includes providing the number of cards for display in the order within the presentation area on the client device of the user in response to the request.

In various embodiments a method for arranging a plurality of cards is described. The method includes receiving the plurality of cards. Each card has multimedia content to be displayed on a presentation area. The multimedia content has one or more features. The cards are associated with one or more rules. The method further includes sending to arrange the plurality of cards on the presentation area in a random order for a plurality of users that are capable of viewing the cards arranged in a user specific order. The random order is different for different users. The method includes identifying user interactivity with the features of any one of the cards. The interactivity with one of the features in one of the cards sets a binary outcome for the card. The method includes sending for display the plurality of cards ordered in accordance with a ranking defined based on the binary outcomes for the plurality of cards. The method is executed by a processor.

In various embodiments a method for arranging a plurality of categories on a presentation area is described. The method includes receiving the categories which are to be presented on a presentation area. One of the categories is different than another one of the categories. Each category includes a presentation of a combination of features. The categories are associated with a number of combinations of binary outcomes of a number of combinations of rules. The method includes sending for display to a number of client devices the categories. Each category is associated with a corresponding one of the combinations of binary outcomes. The method further includes determining a number of the client devices from which indications of relevance actions are received when the categories based on the combinations of binary outcomes are presented on the client devices and ranking the categories for presentation on the presentation area based on the number of client devices from which the indications of the relevance actions are received. The method is executed by a processor.

In some embodiments a server includes a memory device for storing a computer program. The server further includes a processor coupled to the memory device for retrieving the computer program from the memory device and executing the computer program. The processor executes the computer program for receiving a plurality of cards. Each card has multimedia content to be displayed on a presentation area. The multimedia content has one or more features. The cards are associated with one or more rules. The processor further executes the computer program for sending the plurality of cards for arrangement on the presentation area in a random order for a plurality of users that are capable of viewing the cards arranged in a user specific order. The random order is different for different users. The processor also executes the computer program for identifying user interactivity with the features of any one of the cards. The interactivity with one of the features in one of the cards sets a binary outcome for the feature of the card. The processor executes the computer program for sending for display the plurality of cards ordered in accordance with a ranking defined based on the binary outcomes for the plurality of cards.

The following example embodiments and their aspects are described and illustrated in conjunction with apparatuses methods and systems for ranking categories on a presentation area based on binary outcomes. The embodiments and their aspects are meant to be illustrative examples and not limiting in scope.

The web page is identified by a uniform resource locator URL . The website is a set of related web pages served from a single web domain. The website is hosted on the web server accessible via a network . Examples of the network include a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a proprietary network or a combination thereof etc. To illustrate the network includes the Internet an Intranet or a combination thereof.

The web page is a document and is transported from the web server to a client device e.g. a client device A a client device B a client device C etc. by using a protocol e.g. a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Examples of a client device include a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet a cell phone a smart phone etc.

A computer application e.g. a web browser etc. that is executed on a client device renders content of the web page according to formatting instructions e.g. hypertext markup language HTML instructions etc. onto a display device of the client device. A display device is further described below.

The web page includes an advertisement displayed on top of the web page . The web page further includes a carousel that has a top part A and a bottom part B. Examples of the top part A include a module which is a part of a computer program that contains one or more computer software routines. In some embodiments a module of a software program can be developed independent of other parts of the software program. The bottom part B includes multiple stories A and B. Each story as described in the present disclosure includes content e.g. multimedia content text audio video images photos etc. Examples of the multimedia content include a combination of any two of audio video text images and animation. In some embodiments a story provides news to a user. For example a story provides a visual image of a real life event that has occurred. When a selection is received from a user A via an input device of the story B the top portion A displays the story B. For example a larger version of the story B is displayed in the top portion A.

In some embodiments each story has a heading e.g. a title etc. which is followed by a brief description of the story and or information regarding a publisher of the story. Examples of the information regarding the publisher include a name of the publisher a city in which the publisher has its main office a place of incorporation of the publisher etc.

Below the carousel is a stream . The stream includes multiple articles and . Each article includes a story. Some stories in the stream are the same as some of the stories A and B of the carousel .

When a selection is received from the user A via the input device of a hyperlink within a story a web page that provides details of the story instead of a brief description of the story is displayed on the display device of the client device A.

A list of categories 1 2 3 4 and 5 is displayed on the right e.g. in a right column etc. on the web page . The list of categories 1 thru 5 is displayed in a random order. For example a ranking server of the system includes a random number generator RNG that generates a random sequence of numbers e.g. 1 thru 5 etc. and the sequence provides a vertical order of arrangement of the categories 1 thru 5 in the column on the web page . The random sequence of numbers is generated to perform a test on one or more of the users A B and C to determine a relevance score.

In some embodiments the ranking server provides a different random order of arrangement of the categories 1 thru 5 for each user A B and C. For example the ranking server assigns a first random order of arranging the categories 1 thru 5 for the client device A and a second random order of arranging the categories 1 thru 5 for the client device B. The first random order arranges the category 1 on top of the category 2 and the second random order arranges the category 2 on top of the category 1. In various embodiments the ranking server assigns the first random order of arranging the categories 1 thru 5 for a user account of the user A and the second random order for a user account of the user B. For example when the user A logs into his her user account via a client device and then accesses the web page the category 1 is displayed on top of the category 2 and when the user B logs into his her user account via a client device and then accesses the web page the category 2 is displayed on top of the category 1. Examples of user accounts are provided below.

In various embodiments a number of a random sequence is unknown to the random number generator before generating the number.

The categories 1 thru 5 are different from each other. For example the category 1 is different from the categories 2 thru 5. Examples of any of the categories 1 thru 5 include a finance category a weather category a photos category a videos category a sport category a horoscopes category a birthdays category and a comics category etc. For example the category 1 is a weather category and the category 2 is a finance category. As another example subject matter of the category 1 is different from subject matter of the category 2. To illustrate the category 2 includes information about stocks wall street stock markets etc. and the category 1 includes information about temperature in a city during a day chance of rain in the city during the day temperature in the city during a next day chance of rain in the city during the next day etc. As another illustration the category 3 includes scores of playoffs conducted by a sports association e.g. a basketball association a baseball association a football association a soccer association etc. and the category 4 includes images of scenic places in the world. To illustrate further the category 5 includes links to videos and a category 6 not shown includes birthdays of social network friends of the user. In various embodiments the birthdays are displayed when the user A logs into his her social network account via the web page and provides permission to the entity that manages the web page to access the birthdays from the social network. As another illustration of the different categories a category 7 not shown includes horoscopes of people whose birthdays fall in a current month in which the web page is displayed on the client device A and a category 8 not shown includes images of a cartoon of comics. It is difficult for a server to compare the categories 1 thru 5 with each other without implementing the systems and methods for ranking described herein. For example without application of the systems and methods for ranking described herein the categories 1 thru 5 are ranked equally.

In some embodiments a category is a card that is displayed on the display device of the client device A. Each card includes a close selector e.g. selector represented as X etc. to receive a close selection from a user via an input device of a client device to close the card on the web page . Upon receiving the close selection a prompt to save the close selection in a user account is displayed by a client device. For example when a user logs into his her user account and then provides the close selection via an input device to a processor of a client device the processor sends the close selection preference to the web server . The web server associates the close selection preference to the user account. Next time when the user logs into his her user account the web server sends the web page for display with the card closed. When the user selects the close selection on the closed card via an input device of a client device the closed card is reopened on the web page .

In some embodiments each card is stored in a database within a memory device of a server the web server the ranking server etc.

In various embodiments each card is displayed by executing a corresponding computer application. For example a Finance branch of an entity is in charge of developing and managing a computer program that is executed by a processor of the web server to determine a format of presenting e.g. displaying etc. information regarding a finance card. As another example a sports branch of an entity is in charge of developing and managing a computer program that is executed by a processor of the web server to determine a format of presenting information regarding a sports card. Examples of format of a card include a position of the card on the web page a color of the card on the web page a texture of the card on the web page a shade of the card on the web page a format of features of the card on the web page etc.

In various embodiments different servers are used to determine formats of displaying information about different cards. For example a first web server is used to determine a format of displaying information about the finance card and a second web server is used to determine a format of presenting information about the sports card.

For each visit of the web page by one or more of the users A B and C during the test the ranking server determines whether a number of relevance actions are performed by one or more of the users A B and C with respect to the category 1 when the category 1 is displayed on a corresponding one or more of the client devices A B and C based on a combination of outcomes of a combination of rules e.g. a rule and a rule etc. assigned to the category 1 by the ranking server . In various embodiments the category 1 includes features and . The feature of category 1 is sent by the web server for display in a first manner e.g. format etc. on the display device of the client device A when the ranking server determines that an outcome of application of a rule of the category 1 is true and the feature of category 1 is sent by the web server for display on the display device of the client device A in a first manner when the ranking server determines that an outcome of application of a rule of the category 1 is true. On the other hand the feature of category 1 is sent by the web server for display in a second manner on the display device of the client device A when the ranking server determines that an outcome of application of the rule of the category 1 is false and the feature of category 1 is sent by the web server for display in a second manner on the display device of the client device A when the ranking server determines that an outcome of application of the rule of the category 1 is false. An example of display of the feature of the category 1 in the first manner includes a display that is not grayed out and an example of display of the feature of the category 1 in the second manner includes a display that is grayed out. Another example of display of the feature of the category 1 in the first manner includes a display that is highlighted and an example of display of the feature of the category 1 in the second manner includes a display that is not highlighted. The feature of category 1 is displayed on the user device A to convey to the user A the outcome of the rule of category 1 and the feature of category 1 is displayed on the user device A to convey to the user A the outcome of the rule of category 1. For example the feature of category 1 conveys to the user A that U.S. markets are closed when the U.S. stock markets are closed and the feature of category 1 conveys to the user A that U.S. markets are open when the U.S. stock markets are open.

In some embodiments each rule is a query associated with an environment. For example a rule includes whether the stock market e.g. a stock market environment etc. is open. As another example a rule includes whether weather conditions are good. As yet another example a rule includes whether a sport is being played at a location of a user. Whether a sport is being played at a location is an example of a condition. As another example a rule includes whether a scenic image is created and ready for presentation on the web page . Whether the scenic image is created and ready for presentation on the web page is an example of an image condition. As still another example a rule includes whether today e.g. a day on which the user A visits the web page on his her client device A is a birthday of the user A or his her social network friends. Whether the birthday of the user A or his her social network friends is today is an example of a birthday condition. As another example a rule includes whether a horoscope is ready for presentation on the web page for a month during which the user A accesses the web page via his her client device A. Whether the horoscope is ready for presentation on the web page is an example of a horoscope condition. As another example a rule includes a query whether the user A is less than 20 years old on a day the user A accesses the web page via his her client device A. Whether the user A is less than 20 years old on a day the user A accesses the web page is an example of a comics condition.

In several embodiments instead of sending the feature of the category 1 for display in the second manner and instead of sending the feature of the category 1 in the second manner the feature of category 1 is not sent by the web server for display on the display device of the client device A when the ranking server determines that an outcome of application of the rule of the category 1 is false and the feature of category 1 is not sent by the web server for display on the display device of the client device A when the ranking server determines that an outcome of application of the rule of the category 1 is false.

In various embodiments whether or not a feature is displayed within a category is independent of an outcome of an application of a number of rules that is associated with the category. As an example the features and are not displayed within the category 1 independent of an outcome of the rules and of the category 1. For example the category 1 includes or does not include a feature that indicates that the U.S. markets are open. In this example the category 1 is displayed on a display device of the client device A when a binary outcome of a first rule is that the U.S. markets are open when a binary outcome of a second rule is that the user A is greater than 22 years old and when a binary outcomes of a third rule is that a change is a portfolio of the user A is less than 5 between yesterday and today which is the day on which the web page is accessed by the client device A. In this example whether the U.S. stock markets are open whether the user A is greater than 22 years old and whether the portfolio of the user A is changed less than 5 are examples of rules that are associated with the category 1. In these embodiments a rule is evaluated to determine a binary outcome of the rule by the ranking server which is a backend server and the feature is or is not displayed on the client device A.

In some embodiments the ranking server determines an outcome of a rule based on input received from a user or from a database. For example the ranking server accesses a weather database that stores information about the weather to determine whether it will rain today which is the day on which the web page is accessed by the user A on the client device A or tomorrow. Upon receiving information from the weather database that it will rain tomorrow an outcome of a rule whether it will rain tomorrow is true. On the other hand upon receiving information from the weather database that there is no or little chance of rain tomorrow an outcome of a rule whether it will rain tomorrow is false. As another example the ranking server receives an input from the user A via an input device of the client device A to determine user demographics e.g. whether the user A is older than 22 years or is a male or a female or is interested in weather or has studied in a college or has studied at a university or a combination thereof. Upon receiving an input from the user A that the user is older than 22 years an outcome of a rule as to whether the user A is older than 22 years is true. On the other hand upon receiving an input from the user A that the user is not older than 22 years an outcome of a rule as to whether the user A is older than 22 years is false.

Examples of a feature include text or an image or a video or an audio or an animation or a hyperlink or a combination thereof. To illustrate a feature includes text that is hyperlinked to a web page that provides details about a story. In this illustration the text is a title of the story. As another illustration a feature includes a hyperlink to a video. As yet another illustration a feature includes a thumbnail image that includes a hyperlink to an increased size version of the thumbnail image. In some embodiments the increased size version occupies an entire area of a screen e.g. full screen area etc. of a display device of a client device. In several embodiments the increased size version occupies a portion of an area of a screen of a display device of a client device and is larger than the thumbnail image.

An example of the relevance action with respect to a category includes a hovering relevance action in which the user hovers a mouse pointer e.g. a cursor etc. on top of or close to e.g. adjacent to etc. a feature of the category. An example of a hover includes a mouse over. Another example of a relevance action with respect to a category includes a clicking relevance action in which the user selects a feature of the category after placing a mouse on top of the feature. In some embodiments upon receiving the selection of a feature of a category the web server serves a web page that describes the feature in detail and or that provides an increased size version of the feature and or that describes other features or stories that are in the same category as that of the feature. For example upon receiving a selection of an image of a comic the web server serves images of the comic published on the web page for a current date on which the selection is received and further servers images of a comic published on the web page for dates previous to the current date. Yet another example of a relevance action with respect to a category includes viewing e.g. focusing staring looking etc. at a feature of the category. To illustrate the ranking server determines that a relevance action has occurred with respect to a category when the user A looks at a feature within the category for more than a pre determined period of time e.g. stares at the feature etc. Still another example of a relevance action with respect to a category includes a combination of hovering over selecting and viewing a feature of the category. A relevance action performed by a user is an example of an input from the user.

Moreover for each visit of the web page by the users A B and C during the test the ranking server determines whether a relevance action is performed by one or more of the users A B and C with respect to the category 2 when the category 2 is generated based on a combination of binary outcomes of a number of rules e.g. rules and assigned by the ranking server to the category 2 etc. Also for each visit of the web page by the users A B and C the ranking server determines whether a relevance action is performed by one or more of the users A B and C with respect to the category 3 when the category 3 is generated based on a combination of binary outcomes of a number of rules e.g. rules and assigned by the ranking server to the category 3 etc.

For each category 1 thru 5 of the web page the ranking server determines a number of users A B and C that performed the relevance action with respect to the category. The user A operates the client device A the user B operates the client device B and the user C operates the client device C. For example the ranking server determines that the user A from all the users A thru C selected the feature of the category 1 and did not select the features of the remaining categories 2 thru 5 displayed on the web page to determine that the user A performed a relevance action with respect to the category 1. The user A selected the feature of the category 1 on the web page displayed on the client device A to generate a relevance event e.g. a selection event etc. The users B and C visited the web page and did not select any feature of the category 1. The user B visited the web page displayed on the client device B and the user C visited the web page displayed on the client device C. As another example the ranking server determines that the users B and C from all the users A thru C selected the feature of the category 2 and did not select the features of the remaining categories 1 and 3 thru 5 displayed on the web page . In this example the ranking server determines that two relevance events are generated with respect to the category 2 from two relevance actions of the users B and C with respect to the category 2. The relevance actions include selections of the feature of the category 2 by the users B and C. The user B selected the feature of the category 2 on the web page displayed on the client device B and the user C selected the feature of the category 2 on the web page displayed on the client device C. The user A visited the web page on the client device A and did not select any features of any of the categories 2 thru 5 during the visit.

All possible binary outcomes e.g. or true or false etc. for a combination of rules of a category that are applied by the ranking server is shown in a table which is stored in a memory device of the ranking server . For example a row of binary outcomes 0 0 0 that are determined by the ranking server indicates it is false that the user A is greater than 22 years old it is false that a portfolio of the user A changed greater than 5 between today and yesterday and it is false that the U.S. markets are open. In this example the rules whether the user A is greater than 22 years old whether the portfolio of the user A changed greater than 5 between today and yesterday and whether the U.S. markets are open are applied by the ranking server to determine binary outcomes of the rules. Moreover in this example the rules are assigned to a category. As another example a row of binary outcomes 0 0 1 that are determined by the ranking server indicates it is false that the user A is greater than 22 years old it is false that a portfolio of the user A changed greater than 5 between today and yesterday and it is true that the U.S. markets are open.

The ranking server determines and assigns for each category 1 thru 5 the relevance score which is a ratio of a number of relevance actions performed by the users A B and C with respect to the category to a number of visits of the web page by the users A B and C. In some embodiments the number of page visits of the web page is equal to the number of users A B and C when each user A B and C visits the web page once. For example the ranking server determines that for the category 1 a relevance score is by determining that out of the three users A B and C each of whom visited the web page once the user A performed a relevance action with respect to the category 1. When the users A B and C visited the web page the category 1 displayed the features and of the category 1. As another example the ranking server determines that for the category 2 a relevance score is by determining that out of the three users A B and C each of whom visited the web page once two users B and C performed a relevance action with respect to the category 2. When the users A B and C visited the web page the category 2 displayed the features and of the category 2.

The ranking server ranks the categories 1 thru 5 on the web page based on the relevance scores. For example upon determining that the relevance score of the category 2 is greater than the relevance score of the category 1 the ranking server ranks the category 2 to be above the category 1 on the web page . The ranking server sends an instruction to the client devices A B and C to arrange the category 2 to be above the category 1. In some embodiments the ranking server sends an instruction to the web server to rank the categories 1 thru 5 based on a rank determined by the ranking server . Upon receiving the instruction the web server re arranges the categories 1 thru 5 based on the ranks received from the ranking server and provides the re arranged categories 1 thru 5 to one or more of the client devices A B and C for display. In various embodiments instead of or in addition to arranging the category 2 above the category 1 the ranking server instructs to change a format e.g. color texture shade etc. of the category 2 when the category 2 is in a top position between positions of the category 1 and category 2. The change is made compared to the category 1 to highlight the category 2 compared to the category 1 on the web page .

After the test e.g. after the relevancy scores are determined for the categories of the web page etc. the changed order of categories is presented on the web page to one or more of the users A B and C or to another user D who accesses the web page with the changed order via a client device D. For example the ranking server sends the ranking generated based on the relevancy scores to the web server . When the user D requests the web page from the web server the web server provides the web page with a re arranged order of categories based on the ranking via the network to the client device D of the user D.

In some embodiments in which categories are accessed on a mobile application of a mobile device the user D accesses the mobile application on the client device D via an input device of the client device D. The mobile application is received from a mobile application server via the network and stored on a mobile device. Examples of a mobile device are provided below. Upon accessing the mobile application categories that are re ranked are provided from the ranking server or another server to the client device D for display within the mobile application. The mobile application is executed by a processor of a client device to display the re arranged categories on a display device of the client device D. Similarly in some embodiments the re arranged categories are presented with corresponding mobile applications that are accessed by a corresponding one of client devices A thru C of the one or more users A thru C.

It should be noted that the re ranking of the categories e.g. moving the category 2 to the top compared to the category 1 etc. is performed when each category 1 and 2 has the same combination of features as that before the re ranking is performed. For example the category 1 has the same combination of features before and after the re ranking from the top position of the category 1 to position lower than the category 2. As another example the category 2 has the same combination of features before and after the re ranking from a position lower than the category 1 to the position above the category 1.

In various embodiments the test is performed with respect to any number of users and results of the test e.g. re arrangement of categories are applied to any number of users.

In some embodiments instead of on the top the advertisement is displayed on another area e.g. bottom right center left etc. of the web page .

It should be noted that a bottom of the web page is below the center of the web page and a top of the web page is above the center of the web page . Moreover a right side of the web page is to the right of the center of the web page and a left side of the web page is to the left of the center of the web page .

In various embodiments instead of the categories 1 thru 5 being displayed in the column on the web page the categories 1 thru 5 are displayed in a row on the web page or in any other arrangement e.g. diagonal zig zag linear curved etc. on the web page .

In various embodiments the web page includes any number of categories. In several embodiments the categories 1 thru 5 are displayed on another area e.g. bottom left center top etc. of the web page .

In some embodiments a card has a rectangular shape or a square shape or a polygonal shape or an oval shape or a circular shape or a zigzag shape or a curved shape. In various embodiments a card has a bounded shape that is bounded by a number of lines or a number of curves or a combination thereof.

Although the embodiments described in the present disclosure are described with respect to a server in some embodiments instead of a server multiple servers are used. In various embodiments instead of a server a virtual machine is used.

In various embodiments instead of a true outcome an outcome is represented as a 1 and instead of a false outcome an outcome is represented as a 0 .

In several embodiments a number of users that perform a relevance action with respect to a feature of a category on the web page is determined by the ranking server by determining a number of different user accounts logged into to perform the relevance action. For example when the user A logs into a first user account to perform a relevance action with respect to a feature on the web page and logs into a second user account to perform a relevance action with respect to the feature on the web page the ranking server determines that two users have performed the relevance action with respect to the feature. It should be noted that the relevance actions performed by the user A are independent of a number of client devices that are operated by the user to log into the user accounts and to perform the relevance actions.

In some embodiments during the test the ranking server assigns a weight to a relevance score based on a position of one of the categories 1 thru 5 among all the categories 1 thru 5 on the web page and based on whether a relevance action is performed with respect to the one of the categories 1 thru 5. For example the ranking server assigns a higher weight to a relevance score of the category 2 that is below the category 1 than a weight assigned to a relevance score of the category 1. As another example the ranking server assigns a higher weight to a relevance score of the category 3 that is below the category 2 than a weight assigned to a relevance score of the category 2. As another example a weight assigned to a relevance score of the category 8 is exponentially higher than a weight assigned to a relevance score of the category 2. As shown in as a position of a category becomes lower vertically on the web page the category becomes less likely to receive a selection from a user. plots a number of clicks received from users versus a position of a category in a column on the web page . To account for the less likelihood of being selected the weight assigned to the category 8 is exponentially higher than a weight assigned to the category 2. As another example a weight assigned to a relevance score of the category 3 is linearly greater than a weight assigned to a relevance score of the category 2. In various embodiments instead of a linear or an exponential function any other mathematical function that is increasing with a decrease in position of a category from multiple positions of categories on the web page is used. In these embodiments a weighted relevance score which is a multiple of a relevance score and a weight assigned to the relevance score is used by the ranking server to rank the categories 1 thru 5. For example upon determining that the category 4 has a higher weighted relevance score than a weighted relevance score of the category 3 the ranking server determines to rank the category 4 to be higher than a rank of the category 3 and sends an instruction to the client devices A B and C to display the category 4 above the category 3 and or highlighted with respect to the category 3.

In various embodiments the ranking server receives the categories 1 thru 5 from the web server upon requesting the web server from the categories. Before the categories 1 thru 5 are received by the ranking server the categories 1 thru 5 are randomly displayed on the web page for different users A B and C. In some embodiments before the categories 1 thru 5 are received by the ranking server the categories are displayed in an order generated based on ranking performed by the ranking server .

The card C has a category of finance. The card C displays a value of S P500 stock market index on the current day a value of NASDAQ composite index on the current day and a value of Dow Jones Industrial Average index on the current day a percentage change in the S P500 on the current day a percentage change in the NASDAQ composite index on the current day and a percentage change in the Dow Jones Industrial Average index on the current day. The card C also includes a field in which one of the users A B and C enter via an input device of a corresponding one of the client devices A B and C a ticker symbol of a stock to receive a value of the stock on the current day. Upon receiving the ticker symbol the web server sends a web page that includes additional finance information e.g. full name of an entity having the ticker symbol a 52 week high to low range of values of a stock having the ticket symbol whether the company provides a dividend etc. to one of the client devices A B and C from which the ticker symbol is received.

The card C has a category of sports. The card C lists two scores one for a basketball game of Houston s basketball team versus Oakland s basketball team and another for a game of Denver s basketball team versus Milwaukee s basketball team. The card C further includes a field in which one of the users A B and C enter via an input device of a corresponding one of the client devices A B and C a team name. Upon receiving the team name the web server sends a web page that includes a play schedule of a team having the team name to one of the client devices A B and C from which the team name is received.

The card C has a category of photos. Various images are includes in the card C. Upon receiving a selection of one of the images in the card C from one of the client devices A B and C the web server sends an increased size version of the image for display on the one of the client devices A B and C.

In various embodiments the card C includes temperatures for any number of days or for another time frame e.g. current month next month etc. In some embodiments instead of or in addition to temperature the card C includes other weather information e.g. chance of rain chance of snow chance of a storm chance of a tsunami etc.

In some embodiments the card C includes other information about finance e.g. information regarding personal investing 401K information retirement planning information futures stock market information currency stock market information information regarding mutual funds information regarding exchange traded funds options stock market information etc.

In several embodiments the card C includes information about other sports e.g. badminton volleyball soccer football etc. In various embodiments the card C includes information about other basketball leagues e.g. National College Athletic Association league local basketball leagues in Sunnyvale Calif. etc.

Tables 1 thru 10 below are used to illustrate a method for assigning relevance scores to categories of the web page . Table 1 shows examples of various rules of the finance card which is a card that includes finance information and is included on the web page .

When a user logs into a network e.g. a social network an email network a game network etc. the web server communicates with a network server not shown that creates and manages the network. Examples of the network server include a social network server a game server and an email server.

It should be noted that a rule is assigned a code by the ranking server . For example a rule is identified using a logged value e.g. a code etc. The ranking server does not parse a rule to determine a meaning e.g. an English meaning etc. of the rule. The ranking server distinguishes and identifies different rules based on logged values and the logged values are independent of meanings of the rules.

Table 2 shows examples of various rules of a birthday card which is a card that includes birthday information e.g. birthday of the user A birthdays of social network friends of the user A etc. and is included on the web page .

Table 3 shows examples of various rules of the sports card which is a card that includes sports information and is included on the web page .

Table 4 shows examples of various rules of a weather card which is a card that includes weather information and is included on the web page .

Table 5 shows examples of whether a relevance event e.g. performance of a relevance action occurrence of a relevance action etc. has occurred with respect to each category of the web page for a combination of features presented in the category.

The web server receives a request for the web page from one or more of the client devices A B and C. The request includes a URL of the web page . When the request is received the web server sends a web page that is identified by a URL of the web page . Each time the web page is sent to one of the client devices A B and C the web server indicates to the ranking server that the web page is sent to the one of the client devices A B and C. Each time the ranking server receives the indication that the web page is sent to one of the client devices A the web page is visited on the client device A by the user A.

During a first visit of the web page by one of the users A B and C it is determined by the ranking server that an outcome of application of the rule qm by the ranking server is true and an outcome of application of each rule qh and qa is false. It should be noted that as described herein a true outcome of an application is a true rule state and a false outcome of the application of the rule is a false rule state. A feature that describes the rule qm is displayed in the finance card. For example the ranking server instructs the display device of the client device A to display a percentage change in a value of a stock in the stock portfolio of the user A is greater than 5 percent within the finance card on the web page . Moreover in this example the ranking server instructs the display device of the client device A to display that a stock market is closed and that the user A is not greater than 22 years old. In some embodiments the ranking server does not instruct the display device of the client device A to display that the user A is not greater than 22 years old. In various embodiments the ranking server receives demographic information regarding a user e.g. age of the user birthday of the user a place of residence of the user a car that the user drives a college that the user attended etc. from a user account of the user. For example the ranking server sends a request to a social network server that manages a social network account of a user to receive the demographic information of the user.

Similarly it should be noted that in various embodiments information regarding a category is received by the ranking server from a category server e.g. the web server etc. to apply to a rule regarding the information to further determine whether an outcome of application of the rule is true or false. For example finance information is received from a finance server to apply to a rule regarding the finance information to further determine whether an outcome of application of the rule is true or false. Moreover as another example birthday information is received from a social network server to apply to a rule regarding the birthday information to further determine whether an outcome of application of the rule is true or false. As another example sports information is received from a sports server to apply to a rule regarding the sports information to further determine whether an outcome of application of the rule is true or false. As another example weather information is received from a weather server to apply to a rule regarding the weather information to further determine whether an outcome of application of the rule is true or false.

With reference back to the table 5 the ranking server determines whether a relevance event has occurred with respect to the finance card during the first visit to the web page when an outcome of application of the rule qm is true and outcomes of application of the rules qh and qa is false. For example it is determined whether an indication is received from the client device A that the finance card displayed on the web page is selected or hovered over or is viewed or a combination thereof by the user A. The ranking server stores a binary outcome indicating whether a relevance event occurred with respect to the finance card.

Similarly for the first visit the ranking server determines whether a relevance event occurred with respect to the birthday card for a combination of outcomes of rules associated with the birthday card whether a relevance event occurred with respect to the sports card for a combination of outcomes of rules associated with the sports card and whether a relevance event occurred with respect to the weather card for a combination of outcomes of rules associated with the weather card.

Moreover similarly for each of second and third visits of the web page by one of the users A B and C the ranking server determines whether a relevance event occurred with respect to the finance card for a combination of outcomes of rules associated with the finance card whether a relevance event occurred with respect to the birthday card for a combination of outcomes of rules associated with the birthday card whether a relevance event occurred with respect to the sports card for a combination of outcomes of rules associated with the sports card and whether a relevance event occurred with respect to the weather card for a combination of outcomes of rules associated with the weather card.

Table 6 shows examples of relevance scores assigned by the ranking server for true outcomes of different rule combinations of the finance card.

Similarly table 7 shows examples of relevance scores assigned by the ranking server for true outcomes of different rule combinations of the birthday card table 8 shows examples of relevance scores assigned by the ranking server for true outcomes of different rule combinations of the sports card and table 9 shows examples of relevance scores assigned by the ranking server for true outcomes of different rule combinations of the weather card.

In some embodiments a relevance value e.g. a relevance score etc. that is lower that a relevance value for the NONE state is an indicator to the ranking server that a combination of outcomes of rules that is applied by the ranking server to generate a relevance value lower than the relevance value corresponding to the NONE state is to be dropped by the ranking server . For example the ranking server determines that the relevance scores 0.145901891 0.167498428 and 0.181063053 in table 9 are lower than the relevance score 0.198962304 for the NONE state. In this example the ranking server determines not to change an order of the weather card when it is determined by the ranking server that an outcome of application of the rule w is true or that an outcome of application of the rule w is true or an outcome of application of each rule w and wh is true. In various embodiments the ranking server determines to change an order of the weather card when it is determined by the ranking server that an outcome of application of the rule w is true or that an outcome of application of the rule w is true or an outcome of application of each rule w and wh is true.

Table 10 provides examples of relevance scores that are determined by the ranking server for various page visits by the user A or by a number of the users A B and C after the finance card the birthday card the sports card and the weather card are assigned a relevance score by the ranking server . For example a first page visit in table 10 is that of the user A and a second page visit in table 10 is that of the user A and both the visits are made after the finance card the birthday card the sports card and the weather card are assigned a relevance score by the ranking server . As another example the first page visit in table 10 is that of the user A and the second page visit in table 10 is that of the user B and both the visits are made after the finance card the birthday card the sports card and the weather card are assigned a relevance score by the ranking server .

The ranking server determines to place a card with the highest relevance score at the top of a column compared to cards that have relevance scores lower than the highest relevance score. For example during the first page visit by the user A of the web page after the finance birthday sports and weather cards are assigned the relevance score by the ranking server the ranking server sends an instruction to the client device A to place the sports card at a top of a column of the web page followed by placement of the weather card in the column in the web page further followed by placement of the finance card in the column on the web page and then followed by the birthday card in the column on the web page . As another example during the second page visit by the user A of the web page after the finance birthday sports and weather cards are assigned the relevance score by the ranking server the ranking server sends an instruction to the client device A to place the birthday card at a top of a column of the web page followed by placement of the weather card in the column in the web page further followed by placement of the finance card in the column on the web page and then followed by the sports card in the column on the web page . As yet another example during the third page visit by the user A of the web page after the finance birthday sports and weather cards are assigned the relevance score by the ranking server the ranking server sends an instruction to the client device A to place the sports card at a top of a column of the web page followed by placement of the weather card in the column in the web page further followed by placement of the finance card in the column on the web page and then followed by the birthday card in the column on the web page .

The sports application rating agent communicates with a sports tenant that is executed by a processor of a sports server and the sports tenant retrieves sports information from a database and or from a universal database to provide to the home page APL tenant via the sports application rating agent. Similarly the weather application rating agent communicates with a weather tenant that is executed by a processor of a weather server and the weather tenant retrieves weather information from a database to provide to the homepage APL tenant via the weather application rating agent. The weather application rating agent retrieves identities of various places on Earth to provide to the weather tenant. The weather tenant then retrieves weather at the places from a database to provide to the homepage APL tenant.

The video application rating agent communicates with a video tenant that is executed by a processor of a video tenant and the video tenant communicates with a user channels computer program. The user channels computer program retrieves videos for a channel that is assigned to a user from a database and provides the videos via the channel to the homepage APL via the video application rating agent.

Moreover in some embodiments the video tenant accesses videos from the universal database via a cloud storage computing platform.

Also the horoscope application rating agent accesses horoscope information from the universal database to provide to the homepage APL tenant. Similarly the comic application rating agent accesses comic information from the universal database to provide to the homepage APL tenant the photo application rating agent accesses photo information from the universal database to provide to the homepage APL tenant and the finance application rating agent accesses finance information from the universal database to provide to the homepage APL tenant. The finance application rating agent also communicates with a finance market time application programming interface API to obtain real time market information e.g. stock market information futures market information currency market information etc. via the finance market time API. The birthday application rating agent communicates with a membership API to receive membership information e.g. username password etc. from a user.

The client device includes a processor in communication with a memory device via a bus. In some embodiments the term processor is not limited to being a processor but also includes an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a programmable logic device PLD or a central processing unit CPU or a microprocessor or a combination thereof. Examples of a memory device include a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a volatile memory a non volatile memory a Flash memory a redundant array of disks etc. The client device also includes a power supply one or more network interfaces an audio interface a display device a video interface one or more input devices an input output I O interface and a location sensor e.g. a GPS device etc. The power supply provides power to the client device . In one embodiment a rechargeable or non rechargeable battery is used to provide power. In some embodiments the power is provided by an external power source such as an alternating current AC adapter or a powered docking cradle that supplements and or recharges a battery.

The client device may optionally communicate with a base station not shown or directly with another client device. The network interface includes circuitry for coupling client device to one or more networks e.g. the network etc. and is constructed for use with one or more communication protocols and technologies including but not limited to global system for mobile communication GSM code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP short message service SMS general packet radio service GPRS ultra wide band UWB Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax or any of a variety of other wireless communication protocols. The network interface is sometimes known as a transceiver transceiving device or network interface card NIC .

The audio interface is arranged to provide audio data and or receive audio signals such as a sound. For example the audio interface is coupled to speakers that output audio signals. As another example the audio interface is coupled to a microphone to receive audio signals. In one embodiment the speakers convert audio data into audio signals. In some embodiments audio interface includes an analog to digital converter to convert audio signals into audio data.

The display device may be a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display a light emitting diode LED display or any other type of display used with a client device. In some embodiments the display device includes a touch sensitive screen arranged to receive input from an input device such as a stylus or from one or more fingers or from a combination of one or more fingers and a thumb of a user.

In one embodiment instead of the processor executing a renderer software program that converts multimedia data to display such as render the web page categories etc. the video interface includes a GPU that performs the execution. In some embodiments the renderer software program is stored in the memory device .

The input devices include one or more input devices arranged to receive input from a user. For example input devices include an input detector a mouse and a keyboard. Examples of the input detector include a biometric sensor e.g. a fingerprint sensor an eye location detector etc. The biometric sensor produce an electrical current when it scans a body part e.g. eyes fingers thumb etc. of a user and the electrical current is converted to a digital form before being received by the processor for analysis.

Client device also includes the I O interface for communicating with external devices such as a headset or other input or output devices. In some embodiments I O interface utilizes one or more communication technologies such as universal serial bus USB infrared Bluetooth or the like. In various embodiments I O interface includes an analog to digital converter ADC .

The memory device includes a RAM and a ROM . The memory device illustrates an example of computer readable medium for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. The memory device stores a basic input output system BIOS for controlling low level operation of client device . The memory device also stores an operating system for controlling an operation of the client device . It will be appreciated that in one embodiment the operating system includes UNIX LINUX Android operating system or Windows Mobile operating system.

The RAM further includes applications and or other data. Applications may include computer executable instructions which when executed by client device provide functions such as rendering filtering and analog to digital conversion. Examples of the applications include a web browser application an email application a game application a social network application etc.

Examples of the location sensor include a GPS transceiver a mobile transceiver etc. The location sensor includes a device or circuit or logic that can generate geo location data to determine a location of the client device .

The mass memory as described above illustrates another type of a computer readable medium. In some embodiments a computer readable medium includes volatile nonvolatile removable and a non removable memory medium implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Examples of a computer readable medium include RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc ROM digital versatile disks DVD optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store information which can be accessed by a processor.

The mass memory stores program code and data. One or more application computer programs are loaded into the mass memory and run on the operating system . Examples of application computer programs include email programs schedulers calendars transcoders database programs word processing programs web based programs server programs spreadsheet programs and so forth.

Likewise in some embodiments the server device includes additional mass storage facilities such as a CD ROM DVD ROM drive and hard disk drive . The hard disk drive is utilized by server device to store among other things application programs computer programs databases and the like.

A basic input output system BIOS is also provided for controlling a low level operation of the server device . The server device also can communicate with the network via a network interface unit which is constructed for use with various communication protocols mentioned above including a transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP protocol. The network interface unit is sometimes known as a transceiver transceiving device network interface card NIC and the like.

In some embodiments the server device includes a simple mail transfer protocol SMTP handler application for transmitting and receiving email. In various embodiments the server device includes an HTTP handler application for receiving and handing HTTP requests from one or more client devices A B C and an HTTPS handler application for handling secure connections. The HTTPS handler application initiates communication with an external application e.g. a web browser etc. residing on the client devices A B C in a secure fashion.

The server device also includes an I O interface for communicating with external devices such as a mouse keyboard scanner or other input devices.

It should be noted that although some of the operations described above are performed by a single processor in some embodiments an operation is performed by multiple processors or multiple operations are performed by multiple processors.

In some embodiments the operations described above as being performed by a server are being performed by one or more processors of the server.

In various embodiments the operations described above as being performed by multiple servers are performed by one server. For example the operations described above as being performed by the web server and the ranking server are performed by the ranking server .

In some embodiments the operations described above as being performed by one server are performed by multiple servers.

It should be noted that although a majority of the above described embodiments are described with respect to the web page in some embodiments instead of presenting categories on the web page the categories are presented within a mobile application. In various embodiments the mobile application is an application computer program that is executed by a processor of a mobile device e.g. a smart phone a tablet computer etc. The mobile application is usually available through application distribution platforms.

Embodiments of the present disclosure may be practiced with various computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a network.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the embodiments can employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Any of the operations described herein that form part of the embodiments are useful machine operations. The embodiments also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus may be specially constructed for a special purpose such as a special purpose computer. When defined as the special purpose computer a computer can also perform other processing program execution or routines that are not part of the special purpose while still being capable of operating for the special purpose. Alternatively the operations may be processed by a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by one or more computer programs stored in the computer memory cache or obtained over a network. When data is obtained over a network the data maybe processed by other computers on the network e.g. a cloud of computing resources.

One or more embodiments can also be fabricated as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can be thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD recordables CD Rs CD rewritables CD RWs magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can include computer readable tangible medium distributed over a network coupled computer system so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Although the method operations were described in a specific order it should be understood that other housekeeping operations may be performed in between operations or operations may be adjusted so that they occur at slightly different times or may be distributed in a system which allows the occurrence of the processing operations at various intervals associated with the processing as long as the processing of the overlay operations are performed in the desired way.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications can be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the embodiments are not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

