---

title: Flow chamber analyte detection method
abstract: A flow chamber and method for detecting the presence of one more cell produced analytes under flow conditions. The flow chamber includes two compartments separated by a permeable membrane on which a plurality of cells may be positioned. The permeable membrane shields one or more analyte sensors positioned one compartment from the convective transport forces of a fluid flow within the other compartment to allow reliable and accurate detection of cell-produced analytes and determination of the concentration of cell-produced analytes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09535058&OS=09535058&RS=09535058
owner: Drexel University
number: 09535058
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140730
---
This invention was reduced to practice with Government support under Grant No. NIH HL068164 awarded by the National Institutes of Health and Grant No. NSF BES0301446 awarded by the National Science Foundation the Government is therefore entitled to certain rights to this invention.

The invention relates to a flow chamber and a method for detecting low concentrations of molecules produced by cells.

The flow conditions in conventional single compartment flow chambers present difficulties in detecting and measuring cell produced diffusible molecules which are typically produced in low concentrations. Diffusible molecules are rapidly carried from the cell surface into the flow current due to convective transport forming a steep concentration gradient that inhibits the accurate measurement of the diffused molecule concentration. The sensors utilized in conventional flow chambers are also typically unable to make accurate measurements under flow conditions due to the sensor placement and poor flow signal sensitivity. Consequently single compartment flow chambers are unable to accurately or reliably detect or measure the amount of diffusible molecules produced by cells contained within the single compartment flow chamber.

Specifically conventional flow chamber systems are incapable of accurately detecting and measuring cell nitric oxide NO generated by cells placed under shear stress by contact with a flowing fluid. NO is known to rapidly diffuse and has a short half life of about 2 30 seconds. Consequently NO produces sharp gradients in concentration near the source of production due to convective transport which rapidly removes the NO that diffuses into the fluid from the cell surface. The steep concentration gradient and low concentration levels of NO produced by cells make accurate and reliable NO measurements under controlled in vitro conditions virtually impossible. Although placement of the NO sensing electrodes close to the exposed cell surface can reduce the potential effects discussed above such an electrode placement will cause disturbances in the flow profile in the vicinity of the cells being monitored thereby altering the results by changing the effective shear stress due to the flow on some or all of the cells. Furthermore the electrodes used for NO measurement can also be sensitive to flow thereby further distorting or masking the NO signal.

Research on shear stress induced NO production has been severely limited because of the foregoing experimental difficulties and detection limitations on concentration and accuracy. NO detection measured in a system which applies changes in shear stress by changing the fluid flow is particularly challenging because of the low NO concentrations and the many competing phenomena including convection diffusion and chemical degradation. Similar problems exist in relation to measurement of other cell generated species as well.

Consequently there is a need to develop an improved flow chamber that addresses the deficiencies of the prior art and enables detection and measurement of low concentration cell produced diffusible molecules such as NO.

In a first aspect the invention is directed to a flow chamber for detecting an analyte. The flow chamber includes a first compartment having a fluid inlet and fluid outlet for allowing a fluid to flow through the first compartment. The flow chamber further includes a second compartment and an analyte sensor positioned within the second compartment. A permeable membrane having a first surface that is exposed to fluid flow in the first compartment a second surface positioned within the second compartment separates the first and second compartments.

In a second aspect the invention is directed to a flow chamber for detecting an analyte. The flow chamber includes a first compartment having a fluid inlet and fluid outlet for allowing a fluid to flow through the first compartment. The flow chamber further includes a second compartment and an analyte sensor positioned within the second compartment. The flow chamber also includes a structure for allowing passage of an analyte from the first compartment to the second compartment wherein the analyte sensor is positioned at a known distance from a surface of said structure.

In a third aspect the invention is directed to a method for detecting an analyte using a flow chamber described in the first aspect of the invention. The method involves positioning a plurality of cells within the flow chamber on the first surface of the permeable membrane. The analyte sensor may be positioned a known distance from said plurality of cells. Fluid is flowed through the first compartment and the analyte produced by said plurality of cells is detected.

For illustrative purposes the principles of the present invention are described by referencing various exemplary embodiments thereof. Although certain embodiments of the invention are specifically described herein one of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be employed in other apparatuses and methods. Before explaining the disclosed embodiments of the present invention in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of any particular embodiment shown. The terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Further although certain methods are described with reference to certain steps that are presented herein in certain order in many instances these steps may be performed in any order as may be appreciated by one skilled in the art and the methods are not limited to the particular arrangement of steps disclosed herein.

It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Additionally the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms comprising including and having can be used interchangeably.

The present invention is directed to a flow chamber and method for detecting the presence of one more cell produced analytes under flow conditions. Flow chamber includes a first compartment and a second compartment separated by a permeable membrane on which a plurality of cells may be positioned. Permeable membrane serves to insulate one or more analyte sensors positioned within second compartment from the convective transport forces of fluid flow within second compartment . Analyte sensor located proximate to permeable membrane enables the detection of one or more cell produced analytes that diffuse through permeable membrane . Cell produced analytes are generated in response to an applied stimulus and diffuse through permeable membrane into second compartment where the analytes are detected by analyte sensor . In an exemplary embodiment the invention enables the determination of analyte concentration or a change in analyte concentration over time.

As shown in flow chamber includes two compartments and is arranged to detect the presence of one or more cell produced analytes generated in response to an applied stimulus. A first compartment is configured as an enclosed structure defined by a ceiling floor and plurality of side walls . First compartment further includes a fluid inlet port and fluid outlet port through which a fluid may be flowed for example in order to apply shear stress to cells positioned therein. In one embodiment a fluid source is connected to fluid inlet via a conduit and supplies a fluid to first compartment. The fluid is subsequently expelled via fluid outlet port and drained from the substantially closed system. Alternatively fluid inlet port and fluid outlet port may be connected via a conduit forming a substantially closed system wherein a fluid may be continuously circulated. In an exemplary embodiment first compartment forms a substantially controlled and closed system wherein a pump is attached to and or valves are positioned within fluid inlet port fluid out let port one or more conduits connected thereto or combinations thereof in order to set and regulate the pressure within and prevent leakage of fluid from first compartment .

A second compartment formed as a substantially enclosed or enclosed interior space defined by a ceiling floor and plurality of side walls may be configured as a closed system. In an exemplary embodiment second compartment forms a substantially small enclosed space in order to ensure that the contents of second compartment and the diffused analyte quickly achieve equilibrium. In an exemplary embodiment second compartment has a volume of about 1000 ml or less preferably about 500 L to about 800 L. Second compartment is located proximate to a permeable membrane separating first and second compartments . Due in part to the small volume and zero flux condition at the other boundaries of second compartment and the short diffusion distance from permeable membrane the concentration of an analyte in second compartment is substantially uniform and rapidly equilibrates with the analyte concentration in the cell layer. Optionally second compartment may include a fluid inlet port and fluid outlet port that allows for a fluid to be introduced contained and or flowed through second compartment for the purpose of rinsing second compartment and its contents. In an exemplary embodiment second compartment may have the same flow system components and system configuration as that of first compartment .

Separating two or more compartments of flow chamber is a permeable membrane which may be configured as any porous substrate that provides a surface on which a plurality of cells may be positioned. In the embodiment of a plurality of cells are immobilized and or cultured on a first surface of permeable membrane that is exposed to fluid flow within first compartment . For purposes of the present invention any group of cells may be positioned on first surface of permeable membrane forming one or more cellular layers or a tissue matrix. Exemplary cells include cells that can adhere to or be cultured on a two dimensional substrate such as epithelial cells endothelial cells vascular smooth muscle fibroblasts osteoblasts chondrocytes endothelial cells including lymphatic endothelial cells and stem cells at various stages of differentiation.

Permeable membrane allows for the passage of at least one analyte of interest from first compartment to second compartment particularly analytes produced by the cells positioned on permeable membrane . Exemplary analytes include small molecules preferably dissolved gases such as nitric oxide NO and oxygen ions such as calcium potassium magnesium hydrogen pH sugars such as glucose nucleotides such as adenosine triphosphate ATP adenosine diphosphate ADP and adenosine monophosphate AMP small proteins such as endothelin and lipids such as prostacyclin. Large molecule analytes however may also be investigated using flow chamber . In an exemplary embodiment permeable membrane has a plurality of apertures or pores that allow for the diffusion of small analytes through permeable membrane . In an exemplary embodiment the size of each aperture or pore is from about 0.1 m to about 12 m in diameter preferably from about 0.1 m to about 8 m in diameter more preferably from about 0.4 m to about 5 m in diameter and most preferably from about 0.4 m to about 3 m in diameter. Additionally the porosity i.e. area fraction of the pores of permeable membrane may be up to about 0.14 preferably up to about 0.005 and more preferably from about 0.005 to about 0.5. The selected pore size and porosity of permeable membrane is dependent upon the diffusibility of the analyte being investigated.

Positioned between first and second compartments permeable membrane is designed to shield the contents and environment of second compartment from the convective forces generated by fluid flow in first compartment . Specifically the structure of permeable membrane substantially shields the cell produced analytes that have diffused across permeable membrane analyte sensor and any fluid contained within first compartment from the convective fluid flow within first compartment . This shielding effect is achieved by virtue of the fact that permeable membrane forms a structural barrier that substantially inhibits the fluid flow and consequently substantially inhibits or prevents the kinetic transfer of flow force between the first and second compartments .

As shown in the embodiment of permeable membrane separates and forms a structural barrier between the first and second compartments . First surface of permeable membrane forms first compartment ceiling and second surface of permeable membrane forms second compartment floor . Permeable membrane is preferably positioned flush with respect to a wall of first compartment allowing for a laminar and uniform fluid flow in first compartment . Alternatively permeable membrane may be positioned so as to protrude or be recessed within first compartment thereby causing a more complex and possibly turbulent fluid flow pattern in first compartment due to interference of the permeable membrane with the fluid flow. As shown in permeable membrane is arranged so as to separate flow chamber into a first compartment and a second compartment . One of ordinary skill in the art however would appreciate that so long as permeable membrane creates a structural barrier between two or more compartments of flow chamber alternative flow chamber configurations may be utilized. For example first and second compartments may be arranged in a side by side orientation wherein permeable membrane forms side walls of first and second compartments .

One or more analyte sensors positioned within second compartment can be used to detect the presence of an analyte determine analyte concentration determine a change in analyte concentration determine analyte production rate or combinations thereof. In one embodiment two or more analyte sensors may be positioned within second compartment wherein each analyte sensor is customized to detect a different analyte. Alternatively a plurality of the same analyte sensors can be positioned at different locations within second compartment . This embodiment may be useful for example for studying the effects of complex flow patterns on the generation of analytes by cells since it could give information about analyte generation at different locations along the immobilized cells exposed to a stimulus such as a fluid flow in first compartment . Analyte sensor may be any sensor suitable for detecting an analyte such as an electrode or piezoelectric cantilever sensor and may be capable of detecting an analyte under dry or wet environmental medium. Exemplary analyte sensors may include high sensitivity sensors capable of detecting small molecules preferably dissolved gases such as nitric oxide NO and oxygen ions such as calcium potassium magnesium hydrogen pH sugars such as glucose nucleotides such as ATP ADP and AMP small proteins such as endothelin and lipids such as prostacyclin.

In order to quantify the concentration or change in concentration of one or more analytes produced by the cells positioned on permeable membrane analyte sensor may be placed within second compartment at a known fixed distance from the cells which can be approximated by the distance to first surface of permeable membrane . Alternatively second compartment can be fabricated to be sufficiently small that fluid contained in second compartment will quickly equilibrate with cell generated analyte that diffuses through permeable membrane to provide quantitative information about analyte concentration. Analyte sensor may be fixed to or located proximate to any surface of second compartment including ceiling floor side walls or combinations thereof. Alternatively analyte sensor may be removably inserted into second compartment via an analyte sensor port . The distance between analyte sensor and the cell surface first exposed surface maybe adjusted and fixed by virtue of fasteners such as clamps and threaded fasteners. In an exemplary embodiment second compartment may be constructed from a substantially transparent material having a plurality of graduated indicators on a surface thereof that provides a guide and means for measuring the distance between analyte sensor and first surface of membrane on which the cells are located.

In the embodiments shown in flow chamber further includes a sensor holder that can be associated with second compartment and analyte sensors to facilitate positioning analyte sensors in a fixed predetermined distance relative to the first surface of permeable membrane . Sensor holder having the interior space defining and second compartment is inserted into a sleeve configured as a container with a shape size and dimensions that corresponds to and is adapted to securely receive a portion of sensor holder preferably the interior space defining second compartment and second compartment . In this embodiment permeable membrane forms a lower surface of sleeve . Preferably the distance between a lower surface of sensor holder and permeable membrane is about 300 m. Sleeve is adapted to contain one or more liquids providing a sensing medium in which analyte sensor is bathed upon insertion into sleeve . Prior to insertion into sleeve floor is absent from second compartment creating an open system wherein a distal end of sensor is unconfined. Optionally one or more micromanipulators may be attached to sensor holder in order to allow a user to interact with sensor holder second compartment analyte sensor or a combination thereof when flow chamber is placed under a microscope.

To facilitate the detection of analytes present in low concentration analyte sensors can be positioned proximate to second surface of permeable membrane . Preferably analyte sensor may directly contact second surface of permeable membrane. In an exemplary embodiment analyte sensor is positioned about 5 m to about 50 m preferably about 5 m to about 20 m from a second surface of membrane . The selected distance of analyte sensor relative to exposed surface may be dependent upon the size and concentration of the analyte being investigated. The purpose of accurately positioning the analyte sensor is that it allows calculation of analyte concentrations from known concentration gradients in case it is desirable to determine analyte concentrations in this manner.

In addition to analyte sensors flow chamber may include one or more environmental sensors for monitoring one or more environmental conditions of one or more compartments of flow chamber . Exemplary environmental sensors that may be positioned within first or second compartment may include temperature sensors pressure sensors flow rate sensors or combinations thereof. Environmental sensors may be fixed to a surface of or removably inserted via an environmental sensor port into a flow chamber compartment . In an exemplary embodiment environmental sensors may be connected to a system capable of adjusting an environmental condition of a flow chamber compartment in response to measurements obtained from one or more environmental sensors .

During operation a plurality of cells may be immobilized and or cultured on first surface of permeable membrane . While a plurality of cells may be positioned on first surface forming multiple cell layers that extend into the interior of first compartment the cells adjacent to the first surface of membrane are located at a known distance relative to analyte sensor since this distance can be determined by summing the thickness of membrane with the distance from analyte sensor to second surface of membrane . Specifically as shown in the cells directly contact and are aligned along first surface . Consequently the distance between sensor and the plurality of cells may be approximated by the distance between sensor and first surface .

A stimulus is then applied to the cells inducing the cells to generate or change the production of one or more analytes. In an exemplary embodiment the applied stimulus may be shear stress exerted on the cells by a fluid flow within first compartment the addition or withdrawal of stimulating or inhibiting molecules under steady fluid flow conditions in first compartment environmental changes such as changes in temperature pressure or flow rate in first compartment or combinations thereof.

In one embodiment a fluid is flowed through first compartment in a direction substantially parallel to ceiling forming a laminar flow that applies a substantially uniform shear stress to the cells. The applied shear stress induces the cells to produce or modify the production of one or more analytes. In an exemplary embodiment the physiological shear stress applied to the cells is about 0 to about 200 dyn cm. It is desirable to achieve the shear stress with the lowest flow rates possible in order to limit the convective transport of the analyte. This may be accomplished by minimizing the cross sectional dimensions of the flow chamber subject to practical limitations and desired uniformity of the flow field.

Alternatively the fluid flow may have a more complex and or turbulent flow pattern that may be achieved using a variety of different methods. In one embodiment a complex flow pattern may be created by virtue of the placement of permeable membrane relative to the fluid flow. In another embodiment the geometry of flow chamber or one or more components thereof can be configured or modified so as to produce any number of flow patterns of interest. For example a sudden expansion in first compartment would produce flow separation creating a recirculation zone that mimics flow at branch points in blood vessels. Also the flow pattern may be modified by fluctuation of the fluid flow rate. In addition to incremental step changes in flow rate any number of time dependent flow patterns including periodic waveforms could be used.

The cell produced analytes that are generated in response to the stimulated cells diffuse through permeable membrane into second compartment . By virtue of the small substantially closed and stagnant fluid environment of second compartment the fluid and analyte within second compartment can be induced to quickly reach equilibrium. Additionally permeable membrane provides a structural barrier that insulates the diffused analytes from the effect of convective transport due to fluid flow in first compartment ensuring that the measurements made by one or more analyte sensors positioned within second compartment accurately reflect the analyte concentration produced by the cells. These features enable flow chamber to accurately and reliably detect and or measure the concentration of analytes present in low concentrations.

In order to quantify analyte concentration without having to allow the contents of second compartment to equilibrate and or detect a change in analyte concentration over time within second compartment analyte sensor may be fixed or removably positioned within second compartment at a known distance relative to the first surface of membrane on which the cells are located. Preferably a distal end of analyte sensor contacts second surface of membrane to establish a distance between distal end of analyte sensor and first surface of membrane equal to the membrane thickness.

In the embodiment shown in second compartment and analyte sensor may be attached to a sensor holder and bathed within a liquid bath contained within sleeve to enhance detection sensitivity. Sensor holder which has an interior space defining second compartment is subsequently inserted into sleeve containing a fluid bath in which analyte sensor is bathed. Flow cell may be placed on the platform of a microscope and sensor holder second compartment analyte sensor or combinations thereof may be manipulated using micromanipulators .

Upon fixing the distance between sensor and first surface of membrane it may be possible to determine the change in analyte concentration over a predetermined interval of time by comparing measurements taken by analyte sensor at two different predetermined flow rates or by employing more complicated flow patterns which for example vary over time. Analyte concentration within second compartment may also be determined at a predetermined point by calibrating analyte sensor for example by flushing second compartment with an experimental fluid to obtain a baseline value for a particular analyte.

To calibrate sensor and enhance the accuracy of the measurements taken by sensor second compartment and analyte sensor positioned therein may be periodically rinsed by flushing a liquid such as distilled water or cleaning solution through second compartment said fluid entering via inlet port and exiting at outlet port . Additionally analyte sensor may be periodically removed from flow chamber for cleaning between measurements.

To further ensure optimal sensing conditions environmental sensors may be positioned within first and or second compartment to monitor an environmental condition of the compartment such as pressure temperature and fluid flow rate. A system operatively associated with environmental sensors may automatically adjust and regulate one or more environmental conditions of the flow chamber in response to a measurement obtained from one or more environmental sensors . For example the temperature within second compartment may be adjusted to optimize detection. Additionally the pressure in first and second compartments may be regulated to provide a substantially neutral pressure flow chamber system.

The measured analyte concentration is dependent on the analyte production rate as well as the convective and diffusive mass transport processes occurring in the flow chamber. The flow chamber may be calibrated to account for the mass transport effects. Alternatively it may be possible to determine the dynamic change in NO production by using mathematical modeling such as the model described in A. A. Fadel K. A. Barbee D. Jaron A computational model of nitric oxide production and transport in a parallel plate flow chamber 37 2009 943 954 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The mathematical model may be used to relate the steady state NO concentration at the position of the electrode to the analyte production rate.

Additionally the mathematical model may be used to determine the initial analyte production rate which may be estimated by fitting a theoretical mathematical function to the relationship between steady state analyte concentration changes for a range of shear stress step changes. In an exemplary embodiment this relationship may be mathematically modeled using a simple linear model or a nonlinear relationship model such as a hyperbolic model or sigmoidal model. The mathematical model enables the determination of steady state analyte values at various applied shear stresses allowing the steady state difference in the change in NO concentration between any two shear stress levels to be determined. This procedure is described in A. Andrews D. Jaron D. Buerk P. Kirby and K. Barbee Direct real time measurement of shear stress induced nitric oxide produced from endothelial cells in vitro Nitric Oxide 23 2010 335 342 incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The innovative flow chamber offers a unique advantage by providing real time direct spatial and temporal in vitro detection of analytes present in low concentrations. By insulating the analyte in a stagnant second compartment separated by permeable membrane from convective transport due to fluid flow in first compartment fluid system prevents disturbances in the fluid flow profile prevents possible effects of the flow on analyte sensor and avoids problems associated with chamber leaking at the sensor insertion site. Additionally by controlling the distance of analyte sensor from the cell surface and or configuring second compartment as a substantially small and enclosed space to ensure rapid equilibration and analyte and fluid in second compartment accurate and reliable quantitative concentration measurements can be obtained. Additionally the use of the flow chamber to conduct in vitro experiments offers a significant advantage by providing the ability to control shear stress and determine analyte concentration changes in real time. This is due in part to the fact that the measured analyte concentrations reflect a combination of analyte production by the cells and convective and diffusive mass transport effects of the system. Experimental data may be coupled with mathematical modeling to interpret the results and to relate analyte production to shear stress.

Flow chamber of the present invention may be used for variety of applications and may be particularly well suited for use as a research tool. In an exemplary embodiment flow chamber may be used to measure the amount of or changes in small cell produced molecules such as NO generated in response to an applied fluid flow shear stress. In one embodiment the flow chamber can be used to conduct and evaluate simulations in which specific signaling events are explicitly modeled. The signaling pathways can be studied in detail by simulating the effects of inhibitors or other interventions and comparing the effects on the dynamics of the NO response. Therefore the flow chamber may be used to investigate the mechanisms that determine NO production. The invention may further provide a method for studying the kinetics of the signaling mechanisms linking NO production with shear stress as well as pathological conditions involving changes in NO production or availability. Additionally the flow chamber may be used to evaluate different theoretical models which have previously been limited by the paucity of quantitative data regarding production and transport of NO.

The device can also be used to detect and study other cell produced diffusible molecules present in low concentrations. Alternatively flow system may be used for chemical analyte analysis that and need not involve immobilizing cells on permeable substrate or generating cell produced analytes.

In an experimental study direct real time measurement of NO concentration changes due to flow induced shear stress stimulation of endothelial cells in vitro using the flow chamber of the present invention was investigated. The measured NO concentrations reflect a combination of NO production by the cells and convective and diffusive mass transport effects of the system. The experimental protocol set forth in the study provides a method for studying the mechanisms linking NO production with shear stress as well as pathological conditions involving changes in NO production or availability.

Bovine aortic endothelial cells BAECs were cultured in Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium Mediatech Cellgro supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum Sigma 2 mmol l L glutamine Mediatech Cellgro and penicillin streptomycin Mediatech Cellgro . The cells were grown to confluency and subsequently plated onto the lower surface of individual polyester Transwell membranes Corning Transwell Permeable Supports having a 24 mm diameter culture area with 3 m pores . The Transwell membranes were then placed in an incubator overnight inverted and cultured for 1 day before conducting the experimental study. The Transwell membranes were subsequently washed 3 three times with a solution of Dulbecco s Phosphate Buffered Saline PBS with calcium magnesium Sigma supplemented with 70 M L arginine L arg Sigma and inserted into the flow chamber.

The flow chamber included an electrode and equipment for measuring NO TBR4100 4 channel Free Radical Analyzer and 200 m diameter mini sensors for NO measurements ISO NOPF . The electrodes were frequently recoated with nafion Sigma and re calibrated during the experimental study to improve selectivity. The recoating process involved at least two dip dry sessions. The electrodes were calibrated by the decomposition of a NO donor S nitroso N acetyl penicillamine SNAP using Cu II . The SNAP was prepared by dissolving 5 mg EDTA and 5.0 mg 2.0 mg of SNAP in 250 mL HPLC grade water. The electrode was immersed in 12 mL of 0.1 M copper II sulfate in distilled water for about 1 to about 2 hours until the electrode stabilized. Aliquots of SNAP were sequentially added in an amount of about 10 L 20 L 40 L 80 L after each signal reached a plateau. A multipoint calibration plot was created using Data Trax software produced by WPI . The sampling rate was 10 samples s. The change in recorded potential was converted to corresponding molarities of NO produced by SNAP addition. The efficiency of the conversion of SNAP to NO was 0.6. Electrode sensitivity was at least about 10 pA nM. The electrodes were tested for sensitivity to nitrite NO after the calibration procedure and sensitivity was found to be about 1.5 to about 3 per 100 mM. Sensitivity increased when the electrode sensitivity to NO had decreased significantly below 5 pA nM. The temperature probe supplied by WPI was pre scaled using a two point entry of known temperatures 0.03125V 1 C. 0.625V 20 C. .

As shown in the flow chamber was made from parallel plates of polycarbonate with a spacer that determined its height. The dimensions in cm of the flow channel were about 4.57 W 12.19 L 0.025 H. The flow inlet and outlet had large reservoirs with sampling ports. A glass coverslip covered an opening in the bottom plate allowing visualization of the cell layer and the electrode on an inverted microscope. As shown in endothelial cells were grown on the lower surface of a Transwell porous membrane which fit into the flow chamber flush with the upper plate of the flow chamber. The flow chamber had an upper compartment and lower compartment separated by the porous Transwell membrane. Below the Transwell membrane fluid flowed through the parallel plate channel that defined the lower compartment exposing the endothelial cells to uniform shear stress. Above the Transwell membrane a stagnant upper fluid compartment having a small volume housed the NO electrode and temperature sensor. This design placed the electrode out of the fluid flow avoiding problems associated with potential flow sensitivities flow disturbances and chamber leaking at the electrode insertion site. Furthermore due to the small volume and zero flux condition at the other boundaries of the stagnant upper fluid compartment and the short diffusion distance through the membrane the concentration of NO in the upper fluid compartment was nearly uniform and rapidly equilibrated with the concentration in the cell layer. The electrode was lowered into the upper compartment of the flow chamber until it rested on the surface of the Transwell membrane at a fixed distance from the ECs of about 10 m equal to the thickness of the membrane. This configuration allowed the NO generated by the cells to be measured abluminally from the endothelial cell layer. Due to the temperature sensitivity of the NO electrode the flow chamber was enclosed in a water bath at 37 C. in order to prevent heat loss and temperature fluctuations. In addition samples were taken during experiments from sampling ports and later analyzed for NO concentration using an NO Analyzer Sievers NAO280i .

The flow chamber was sterilized under ultraviolet light for 20 minutes before each use. The flow chamber was flushed with each of the following 100 mL of 70 ethanol and 100 mL of deionized water and then prepped with 75 mL of the PBS with calcium and magnesium supplemented with 70 M L arg solution. The PBS with calcium and magnesium supplemented with 70 M L arg solution was pumped into the lower compartment of the flow chamber using a Reglo Z Digital pump Ismatec . Flow rates were calculated based on desired shear stresses using Equation 1. 6 Equation 1 where w is the chamber width of the lower flow chamber h is the chamber height of the lower flow chamber is the viscosity is the shear stress dyn cm and Q is the flow rate. The pump was controlled using a LabView program which was adapted from the manufacture s online LabView driver. Using an inverted light microscope Nikon TE300 Eclipse under 10 objective the electrode was lowered using a micrometer until the electrode gently rested on the surface of the Transwell membrane. The chamber was then placed in an enclosed heated water bath of about 37 C. for an hour without flow until the electrode and temperature in the flow chamber stabilized.

120 mL of the PBS with calcium and magnesium supplemented with 70 M L arg solution was cycled continuously through the lower compartment of the flow chamber during the experiment at a low flow rate of 0.25 mL min corresponding to a wall shear stress of 0.1 dyn cm to prevent the accumulation of NO due to basal unstimulated production. The cells plated on the Transwell membrane were exposed to multiple step changes in flow rate ranging from about 0.1 dyn cmto about 20 dyn cmwith a 3 minute interval between the step changes. Specifically as shown in a series of step changes in flow rate corresponding to shear stresses of about 1 6 10 and 20 dyn cmwere applied always returning to 0.1 dyn cmbetween stimuli.

The PBS with calcium and magnesium supplemented with 70 M L arg solution was then exchanged with PBS with calcium magnesium with 1 mM N Nitro L arginine methyl ester L NAME pH 7.2 Sigma . The L NAME solution was flushed through the lower compartment of the flow chamber. Fluid flow was subsequently turned off for 1 hour prior to repeating the same sequence of step changes that were performed prior to L NAME treatment.

The step changes in flow elicited reproducible changes in NO concentration wherein cells could be repeatedly stimulated without diminution of the response. The magnitudes of the responses were consistent within an experiment but varied among cultures. The chamber was continuously perfused at a low flow rate of 0.25 mL min corresponding to a wall shear stress of 0.1 dyn cm to prevent the accumulation of NO due to the basal unstimulated NO production. A series of step changes in flow rate corresponding to shear stresses of 1 6 10 or 20 dyn cmwere applied always returning to 0.1 dyn cmbetween stimuli. The steady state NO concentration at 0.1 dyn cmwas offset to zero in order to show the change in NO concentration in response to each step change in shear stress shown to occur at 50 second intervals. The cellular response to the applied shear stress involved a sharp transient decrease in NO concentration upon step change initiation followed by an increase in NO concentration to a new higher steady state.

The change in steady state was calculated as the difference between the baseline prior to the step change and the steady state value following the step change as shown in . The differences were calculated using the average concentration over a 13 s interval prior to the step change and the average concentration at the new steady state over a 9 s interval after the step change. The steady state change averaged about 6 nM for a step change to 1 dyn cm about 25 nm for a step change to 6 or 10 dyn cmand about 45 nM for a step change to 20 dyn cm. In addition the magnitude of the initial decrease was found to be shear stress dependent. For the steady state concentration to increase with increased shear stress the NO production rate must exceed the rate of removal by the increased convective transport effects.

The steady state change at 20 dyn cmwas statistically different from the change observed in response to 6 or 10 dyn cmbut was not statistically significant between 6 and 10 dyn cm. The steady state change from 0.1 to 1 dyn cmwas statistically different from step changes to all the other shear stresses. Concentration changes ranged from about 21 nM to about 9 nM from about 19 nM to about 53 nM from about 20 nM to about 47 nM and from about 24 nM to about 62 nM for a step change to 1 6 10 and 20 dyn cm. However because convective transport is higher at the higher flow rate the NO production rate must have been higher at 10 dyn cmthan at 6 dyn cm. Additionally the magnitude of the initial decrease in NO concentration was found to be shear stress dependent suggesting that the transient decrease was related to the convective effect of the step change in flow.

As shown in the time course of the NO concentration profiles following a step change were analyzed using an exponential fit to calculate the time constant t . Average tvalues were 64 s 41 s and 21 s for 6 10 and 20 dyn cm respectively. Exponential curves did not accurately reflect the time course for a step change from 0.1 to 1 dyn cm. Mean and SE were plotted and statistics were calculated using the paired two tail t test n 8 for 1 6 and 10 dyn cmand n 6 for 20 dyn cm p

Shear stress induced NO responses were compared before and after L NAME treatment. Following stimulation at multiple shear stresses the experimental fluid was exchanged with 1 mM L NAME having a pH of 7.2. Measurements with L NAME were made under the same protocols as were used prior to treatment with L NAME with the shear stress starting at 0.1 dyn cmand then increasing in step changes to 1 6 10 or 20 dyn cm. As shown in the sample traces of step change occurs at 50 second intervals. The steady state concentration at 0.1 dyn cmwas offset to zero in order to show the individual NO response due to the step change. The solid lines in these figures represent the NO response prior to L NAME treatment and the dotted line represents the NO response after L NAME treatment with the exception of the range of 0.1 to 1 dyn cm.

The measured NO concentration is dependent on the production rate of NO as well as the convective and diffusive mass transport processes occurring in the flow chamber. To account for the transport effects in the flow chamber and consequently properly interpret the measured concentration changes the transport process was mathematical modeled to determine the dynamic changes in NO production. The experimental results were compared to a mathematical model of transient and steady state NO transport. A. A. Fadel K. A. Barbee D. Jaron A computational model of nitric oxide production and transport in a parallel plate flow chamber . 37 2009 943 954 describes the development of the mathematical model. Within the flow domain described by plane Poiseuille flow the convection diffusion equations for the transport of NO were solved using finite element analysis. Production of NO occurred in the 5 um thick endothelial layer where mass transport is by diffusion only. An auto oxidation reaction was included in both domains with the oxygen concentration taken to be a constant throughout the chamber. The dimensions and configurations of the chamber in the mathematical computations accounted for a membrane of about 10 m and the stagnant compartment above the cell layer.

The model permitted relation of the steady state NO concentration at the position of the electrode to the production rate within the endothelial layer. This relationship was approximately linear with the slope strongly dependent of the shear rate as shown in . The solid lines of represent the relationship of steady state NO concentration as a function of Rfor each of the shear stress values used in the study. These relationships demonstrated that the size of a stimulated change in production rate represented by the measured change in NO concentration depends on the baseline concentration.

Although the measurement technique used in this experiment only determined the relative changes in NO concentration using the computational model for the flow chamber it was possible to estimate the basal production rate of NO based on an analysis of the steady state concentration changes for a range of shear stress step changes. If the baseline concentration at 0.1 dyn cmis known or can be estimated then the measured change in NO concentration can be related to the change in production rate. By fitting an expression for the shear stress dependent production of NO to the measured changes in NO concentration in response to a range of shear stress steps the basal production rate was estimated. Three relationships for shear stress dependent Rwere investigated to determine the best fit for the steady state experimental results for each relationship as shown in .

The simplest model tested for NO production rate was linear with shear stress R R A black bars where Ris the basal production rate Ris the rate of NO production A is the slope and is shear stress. Two nonlinear relationships for Ras a function of shear stress were also investigated a hyperbolic model R R R A represented in by the bar with horizontal hatching where Ris the maximum rate of stimulated production above R and a sigmoidal model R R 1 A exp hatched bars where Ris the maximum rate of production. The basal rate for the sigmoidal model can be calculated from R R 1 A . Predicted steady state NO values at each shear stress for each relationship were obtained from the computational model for the flow chamber allowing the steady state difference in the change in NO concentration between any two shear stress levels to be determined.

Comparisons for the best fit of these models to the experimental data mean SE open bars are shown in . The linear model represented by the black bar provided the least suitable fit. The two nonlinear models appear to provide excellent fits to most of the experimental data although both underestimate the change in NO for the change in shear stress from 0.1 to 6 dyn cm. The hyperbolic model represented by the bar with horizontal hatching provided the closest match to the data. Although the sigmoidal function could be made to fit the discrete data points fairly well the production rate was nearly constant within the plateau phase of the curve while shear stress and thus convective transport increased. This would lead to a non physiological situation in which NO concentration decreases at shear stress values higher than a local maximum occurring between 10 and 20 dyn cm. Calculated values for the basal NO production rate R at zero shear stress and Rat different shear rates based on parameters that provided the best fit to the to the experimental data for each relationship are summarized in Table 1 and shown graphically in . In the calculated Rand release rates for experimental shear stresses are shown for the hyperbolic model at 1 dyn cm.

The three models for shear stress dependent Rwere also fit to steady state NO concentration change data that was obtained from the L NAME studies. The hyperbolic model provided the best fit and the linear model the least suitable fit. All the models underestimated the experimental data for the 0.1 to 1 dyn cmchange in shear stress. The analysis found that L NAME partially inhibited Runder the experimental condition of the study L arg also in perfusate . At the highest shear stress change 0.1 to 20 dyn cm Rwas about 57.3 about 57.6 and about 58.3 of Restimated from untreated ECs using the linear hyperbolic and sigmoidal models respectively.

The computer models also permitted investigation of the role of mass transport in the dynamics of the transient response. As shown in simulations of NO concentrations were evaluated at the electrode location for a step change in shear stress from about 0.1 dyn cmto about 20 dyn cm. The initial decrease in NO concentration was followed by an increase to an elevated steady state concentration. Two mathematical simulations are shown in utilizing either a time dependent ramp dashed line or time independent instantaneous step relationship dotted line between NO production and shear stress. Simulations were performed for a shear stress change from 0.1 to 20 dyn cm which occurred at 50 s. The time independent model demonstrated that following a step change a steady state concentration was reached almost instantaneously. The time dependent model utilized a linearly increasing production rate in response to the initiation of shear stress. This produced an initial decrease in NO concentration in response to the change followed by an increase until a new steady state concentration was reached. The model describes NO production as a basal production rate plus a shear stress dependent NO production component. In one simulation the stimulated production rate of NO was dependent on shear stress alone with no lag between change in shear stress and the increase in production rate. In this case the NO concentration reached its new steady state almost instantaneously. In contrast when a gradual increase in production rate linear with time was simulated it was possible to mimic the time dependent changes in NO concentration observed experimentally including the transient decrease and subsequent slower rise to the new steady state. The nearly instantaneous response to a step change in production indicates that the response time of the NO measurement is not limited by diffusion through the membrane. The time course of the NO concentration changes therefore reflects a time dependent cellular response rather than a transport lag.

The experiment enabled direct real time measurement of NO concentration changes due to flow induced shear stress stimulation of endothelial cells in vitro. The concentration changes were partially attenuated by the endothelial nitric oxide synthase eNOS inhibitor L NAME. The failure of L NAME to completely abolish the NO response may in part be due to the incomplete removal of L arg from the upper compartment. However the level of inhibition that was observed is consistent with previous studies with L NAME treatment of in vivo vessels.

The experimental results indicated that following a step change from a low shear stress of 0.1 dyn cmto higher shear stresses the NO concentration at the electrode first transiently decreased and then increased to a steady state concentration that is higher than the initial steady state value except for a shear stress change to 1 dyn cm. As suggested by the experimental simulations this initial decrease is due to convective washout whose effect is immediate. Since the simulated production rate is actually the net release of NO from the cell production minus any consumption by the cell in this experiment changes in NO due to NO production were indistinguishable from changes in NO due to reactions consuming NO within the cell. Thus the possibility that the lag in release was due in part to increased production accompanied by a simultaneous increase in NO consumption through rapid reactions with reactive species such as superoxide or lipid peroxyl radicals could not be ruled out. When an instantaneous increase in production rate was simulated it was predicted that a very rapid increase in NO concentration with no transient decrease would be observed. In addition the magnitude of the initial decrease in the experimental results was found to be shear stress dependent supporting the idea that the transient decrease was related to the convective effect of the step change in flow.

Following the initial decrease the concentration increased to a new steady state that was higher than the pre stimulus level. The ability to measure changes in NO concentration in real time allows analysis of the kinetics of the responses of endothelial cells to changes in shear stress. The time constants characterizing the rate at which the concentration approached the steady state decreased significantly as the size of the step change in shear stress increased. This suggested that in addition to the steady state production rate being dependent on shear stress the rate at which the signaling process leading to increased production are activated was also dependent on the size of the shear stress stimulus. The simulation of the time course of NO concentration changes due to an instantaneous increase in production in response to a step in shear stress indicated that there was negligible transport lag in our measurement system. Therefore the time dependence of the concentration changes reflected the dynamics of the cellular response.

For the steady state concentration to increase with increased shear stress the stimulated NO production rate must exceed the rate of removal by the increased convective transport effects. The experimental data and analysis showed that for small increase in shear stress the concentration deceased despite an increase in production rate. This was consistent with previous study predictions. Furthermore even though the steady state concentration changes for 6 and 10 dyn cmwere similar the changes in production rate at 10 dyn cmwere much greater than at 6 dyn cm as shown in Table 1 and .

The relationships between steady state NO concentration and production rate for different flow conditions presented in provided a template for interpreting the measured responses in terms of stimulated changes in production. Use of this template required knowledge of the absolute concentration in the baseline condition. This could be determined through the development of an in situ calibration procedure. Alternatively as accomplished in the present experiment the basal production rate was estimated by fitting a theoretical relationship between production rate and shear stress to the measured NO changes for a range of shear stress step changes. In the study as shown in Table 1 the highest value for Roccurred at 20 dyn cm. The technique of the present experiment permitted observation of the dynamics of the Rresponse on a small time scale. The experimental measurements combined with mathematical modeling of the transport processes also enabled determination of the dynamic changes in NO production by the cells.

Direct real time measurement of NO concentration changes due to flow induced shear stress stimulation of endothelial cells in vitro using the flow chamber of the present invention was performed. In this study solutions of Dulbecco s Phosphate Buffered Saline PBS with calcium magnesium Sigma supplemented with 70 L arginine L arg Sigma or 1 mM L NAME solution Sigma were tested using the flow chamber in the same manner as described in Example 1 with the exception that the NO was measured in response to step changes in flow rate corresponding to shear stresses from about 1 dyn cmto about 5 dyn cmand from about 1 dyn cmto about 10 dyn cm the same experimental protocol as that of Example 1 was utilized.

The step change from about 1 to about 5 dyn cmproduced an increase in NO that is approximately 70 of the response to 10 dyn cm. Endothelial cells exposed to shear stress in the presence of 1 mM N Nitro L arginine methyl ester L NAME significantly reduced the flow induce NO response consistent with its action as a competitive inhibitor of NO synthase.

It is to be understood that even though numerous characteristics and advantages of the present invention have been set forth in the foregoing description together with details of the structure and function of the invention the disclosure is illustrative only and changes may be made in detail especially in matters of shape size and arrangement of parts within the principles of the invention to the full extent indicated by the broad general meaning of the terms in which the appended claims are expressed.

