---

title: Constructing custom knowledgebases and sequence datasets with publications
abstract: Illustrative embodiments of custom knowledgebases and sequence datasets, as well as related methods, are disclosed. In one illustrative embodiment, one or more computer-readable media may comprise a custom knowledgebase and an associated sequence dataset. The custom knowledgebase may comprise a plurality of assertions that have been automatically extracted from a plurality of publications, where each of the plurality of assertions encodes a relationship between a subject and an object. The sequence dataset may comprise a plurality of called biological sequences, where each of the plurality of called biological sequences is associated with one or more of the plurality of assertions of the custom knowledgebase.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563741&OS=09563741&RS=09563741
owner: BATTELLE MEMORIAL INSTITUTE
number: 09563741
owner_city: Columbus
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140516
---
The present disclosure relates generally to custom knowledgebases and sequence datasets and more particularly to custom knowledgebases and sequence datasets that may be used to interrogate biological sequence data from metagenomic samples.

A knowledgebase is a technology used to store complex structured and or unstructured information that may be used by a computing device e.g. a knowledge based system or expert system to deduce new information. Knowledgebases often represent their stored information using an object model sometimes called an ontology with classes subclasses and instances. This ontology permits the representation of knowledge as a hierarchy of concepts with a particular domain using a shared controlled vocabulary to denote types properties and or interrelationships associated with the information.

Some attempts have been made to develop knowledgebases in the areas of genetics and genomics. For instance the Comprehensive Antibiotic Research Database CARD described in McArthur et al. The Comprehensive Antibiotic Resistance Database Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy vol. 57 pp. 3348 3357 2013 includes data describing antibiotics and their targets along with antibiotic resistance genes associated proteins and antibiotic resistance literature. The CARD utilizes an Antibiotic Resistance Ontology ARO for the classification of antibiotic resistance gene data. Existing knowledgebases in the areas of genetics and genomics however have typically relied entirely on subject matter experts to manually construct the ontologies used by the knowledgebases.

The present invention may comprise any one or more of the features recited in the appended claims any one or more of the following features and or any combinations thereof.

According to one aspect a method may comprise automatically extracting a plurality of assertions from a plurality of publications wherein each of the plurality of assertions encodes a relationship between a subject and an object manually editing the plurality of assertions automatically extracted from the plurality of publications to construct a custom knowledgebase for a particular biological field and constructing a sequence dataset comprising a plurality of called biological sequences wherein each of the plurality of called biological sequences is associated with one or more of the plurality of assertions of the custom knowledgebase.

In some embodiments manually editing the plurality of assertions automatically extracted from the plurality of publications may comprise at least one of i selecting a subset of the plurality of assertions automatically extracted from the plurality of publications for inclusion in the custom knowledgebase ii modifying the content of one or more of the plurality of assertions automatically extracted from the plurality of publications for inclusion in the custom knowledgebase and iii creating one or more additional assertions for inclusion in the custom knowledgebase. The manual editing of the plurality of assertions automatically extracted from the plurality of publications may be performed by one or more subject matter experts in the particular biological field.

In some embodiments automatically extracting the plurality of assertions from the plurality of publications may comprise utilizing natural language processing software to derive the plurality of assertions from the text of the plurality of publications. The plurality of publications may comprise peer reviewed articles selected by the subject matter experts. The natural language processing software may be trained by the subject matter experts to recognize relevant assertions in the text of the plurality of publications. Each of the plurality of assertions may be expressed as a Resource Description Framework RDF triple.

In some embodiments constructing the sequence dataset may comprise automatically extracting one or more called biological sequences from the plurality of publications. Constructing the sequence dataset may further comprise extracting additional called biological sequences from one or more publicly available databases grouping the additional called biological sequences with the one or more called biological sequences automatically extracted from the plurality of publications in response to one or more predetermined resemblance criteria being met and associating each group of called biological sequences with one or more of the plurality of assertions of the custom knowledgebase. The plurality of called biological sequences included in the sequence dataset and the associations between the plurality of called biological sequences and the plurality of assertions of the custom knowledgebase may be manually edited by the subject matter experts.

According to another aspect one or more computer readable media may comprise a custom knowledgebase comprising a plurality of assertions that have been automatically extracted from a plurality of publications wherein each of the plurality of assertions encodes a relationship between a subject and an object and a sequence dataset comprising a plurality of called biological sequences wherein each of the plurality of called biological sequences is associated with one or more of the plurality of assertions of the custom knowledgebase.

In some embodiments the plurality of assertions automatically extracted from the plurality of publications may have been manually edited by one or more subject matter experts in a biological field of the custom knowledgebase. The one or more computer readable media may further a client application configured to compare a plurality of sample biological sequences to the plurality of called biological sequences of the sequence dataset and determine for each sample biological sequence that resembles a called biological sequence of the sequence dataset one or more probable characteristics associated with that sample biological sequence using one or more assertions of the custom knowledgebase that are associated with the called biological sequence that resembles that sample biological sequence.

In some embodiments the plurality of called biological sequences of the sequence dataset comprise at least one of called biological sequences that provide resistance to one or more antibiotics and called biological sequences that mediate regulation of antibiotic resistance and the plurality of assertions of the custom knowledgebase comprise assertions that encode relationships between the called biological sequences of the sequence dataset and at least one of antibiotic resistance elements and regulatory elements. The plurality of assertions of the custom knowledgebase may further comprise assertions that encode relationships between antibiotic resistance elements and particular resisted antibiotics.

According to yet another aspect a method may comprise comparing a plurality of sample biological sequences to a plurality of called biological sequences included in a sequence dataset retrieving from a custom knowledgebase associated with the sequence dataset one or more assertions that are associated with a called biological sequence of the sequence dataset that resembles one of the plurality of sample biological sequences wherein the custom knowledgebase comprises a plurality of assertions that have been automatically extracted from a plurality of publications each of the plurality of assertions encoding a relationship between a subject and an object and determining one or more probable characteristics associated with the sample biological sequence that resembles the called biological sequence of the sequence dataset using the one or more assertions retrieved from the custom knowledgebase.

In some embodiments the plurality of assertions automatically extracted from the plurality of publications may have been manually edited by one or more subject matter experts in a biological field of the custom knowledgebase. The method may further comprise generating the plurality of sample biological sequences using massively parallel sequencing of a metagenomic sample. Determining one or more probable characteristics associated with the sample biological may sequence comprise determining one or more antibiotics likely to be resisted. The method may further comprise generating a report that comprises a ranked listing of the antibiotics likely to be resisted.

While the concepts of the present disclosure are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the concepts of the present disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the present disclosure and the appended claims.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etcetera indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Embodiments of the concepts described herein may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. For instance embodiments of the concepts described herein may be implemented as data and or instructions carried by or stored on one or more machine readable or computer readable storage media which may be read and or executed by one or more processors. A machine readable or computer readable storage medium may be embodied as any device mechanism or physical structure for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device or system . For example a machine readable or computer readable storage medium may be embodied as read only memory ROM device s random access memory RAM device s magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices mini or micro SD cards memory sticks and others.

In the drawings specific arrangements or orderings of schematic elements such as those representing devices modules software and data elements may be shown for ease of description. However it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the specific ordering or arrangement of the schematic elements in the drawings is not meant to imply that a particular order or sequence of processing or separation of processes is required. Further the inclusion of a schematic element in a drawing is not meant to imply that such element is required in all embodiments or that the features represented by such element may not be included in or combined with other elements in some embodiments.

In general schematic elements used to represent software may be implemented using any suitable form of machine readable instruction such as software or firmware applications programs functions modules routines processes procedures plug ins applets widgets code fragments and or others and that each such instruction may be implemented using any suitable programming language library application programming interface API and or other software development tools. For example some embodiments may be implemented using Java C and or other programming languages. Similarly schematic elements used to represent data or information may be implemented using any suitable electronic arrangement or structure such as a register data store table record array index hash map tree list graph file of any file type folder directory database and or others.

Further in the drawings where connecting elements such as solid or dashed lines or arrows are used to illustrate a connection relationship or association between or among two or more other schematic elements the absence of any such connecting elements is not meant to imply that no connection relationship or association can exist. In other words some connections relationships or associations between elements may not be shown in the drawings so as not to obscure the disclosure. In addition for ease of illustration a single connecting element may be used to represent multiple connections relationships or associations between elements. For example where a connecting element represents a communication of signals data instructions or other information it should be understood by those skilled in the art that such element may represent one or multiple signal paths as may be needed to effect the communication.

The present disclosure relates to custom knowledgebases and sequence datasets that are constructed and curated using semi automated methods. In particular the knowledgebase may comprise assertions that are automatically extracted from the professional literature and then manually edited by subject matter experts in the particular biological field to which the knowledgebase is directed. Similarly the sequence dataset associated with the custom knowledgebase may comprise called biological sequences e.g. nucleotide sequences protein sequences etc. that are automatically extracted from the professional literature as well as other public sources and associated with the assertions of the custom knowledgebase subject to manual editing by the subject matter experts. Using the presently disclosed methods a custom knowledgebase and an associated sequence dataset for antibiotic resistance have been constructed. In that illustrative embodiment the antibiotic resistance knowledgebase contains assertions automatically extracted from over 800 peer reviewed articles while the antibiotic resistance sequence dataset contains over 3 800 biological sequence types and over 250 000 individual biological sequences.

Once constructed the custom knowledgebases and sequence datasets of the present disclosure may be used to interrogate biological sequences that are read from metagenomic samples. For instance using the illustrative antibiotic resistance knowledgebase and sequence dataset a client application can identify antibiotic resistance elements in sample biological sequences and report on what antibiotic drugs are likely to be resisted as a result of the identified antibiotic resistance elements. As such the illustrative antibiotic resistance knowledgebase and sequence dataset may support microbial biothreat identification surveillance and or analysis tools that are rapid accurate and or field accessible deployable. Similarly the illustrative antibiotic resistance knowledgebase and sequence dataset may also be used to implement real time and accurate infectious disease decision support tools for clinicians at the point of care. While many of the features of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the illustrative embodiment of a custom knowledgebase and sequence dataset for antibiotic resistance it is contemplated that custom knowledgebases and sequence datasets according to the present disclosure might also be constructed and utilized to interrogate biological sequences for any number of characteristics including but not limited to virulence elements hydrocarbon degrading enzymes visible characteristics e.g. in human genomes and race performance factors e.g. in horse genomes .

Referring now to one illustrative embodiment of an environment including a custom knowledgebase a sequence dataset and a client application is shown as a simplified block diagram. The custom knowledgebase represents the knowledge of a particular biological field e.g. antibiotic resistance and is organized around an ontology that is specific to that biological field. In other words the custom knowledgebase organizes the information needed to understand and represent that particular biological field with reference to the professional literature. In the illustrative embodiment the custom knowledgebase is embodied as data stored on one or more computer readable media.

The custom knowledgebase comprises a plurality of assertions each of which encodes a relationship between a subject and an object as illustrated in . In the illustrative embodiment each of the assertions is expressed as a Resource Description Framework RDF triple. As such the assertions have the form subject verb or verb phrase object. The assertions may encode any number of relationships which will be dependent on the particular biological field represented by the custom knowledgebase and the ontology used. In the illustrative embodiment of the antibiotic resistance knowledgebase by way of example the assertions may represent relationships such as subject confers resistance to drug object where the subject is a particular protein sequence or its encoding nucleotide sequence and the object is a particular antibiotic drug. The assertions may also represent relationships with various antibiotic resistance elements and regulatory elements. For instance some of the assertions may encode a relationship between a biological sequence or group of biological sequences and an antibiotic resistance element or regulatory element while other assertions may encode a relationship between an antibiotic resistance element and a particular resisted antibiotic.

In the illustrative embodiment of the antibiotic resistance knowledgebase the assertions comprehensively describe the various classes of antibiotic resistance elements including efflux pumps and their components antibiotic inactivating enzymes antibiotic target altering enzymes antibiotic target replacement proteins proteins that result in reduced permeability to antibiotics as well as sequence mutants that confer antibiotic resistance. The assertions of the illustrative antibiotic resistance knowledgebase also describe sequence elements that regulate expression of the types of resistance. Furthermore the assertions specify particular resisted antibiotic drugs for each type of antibiotic resistance. The relationships between the antibiotic resistance elements regulatory elements and antibiotic drugs are all described by the ontology .

As described in greater detail below with reference to the custom knowledgebase is constructed and or curated in a semi automated manner. In particular many of the assertions of the custom knowledgebase are generated automatically via extraction from a number of publications . In some embodiments the publications may be peer reviewed articles from the relevant biological field that have been selected by subject matter experts in that field. As illustrated in an extraction engine may be used to digest the text of the publications to derive the assertions from the publications . For instance the extraction engine may analyze the text of the publications for assertions that fit the subject relationship object format and then encode each of these assertions as an RDF triple. The assertions derived by the extraction engine may then be manually edited e.g. by subject matter experts to construct the custom knowledgebase . As discussed further below this manual editing may involve associating an automatically extracted assertion with a particular term of the ontology . It will be appreciated that in contrast to prior art knowledgebases that have been generated by subject matter experts in an entirely manual fashion the semi automated construction and curation methods of the present disclosure offer significant time and cost savings and or corresponding increases in the completeness of the custom knowledgebase .

The sequence dataset comprises a plurality of called biological sequences that are relevant to the biological field of the custom knowledgebase . In the illustrative embodiment the sequence dataset is embodied as data stored on one or more computer readable media. Each of the called biological sequences of the sequence dataset is associated with one or more of the assertions of the custom knowledgebase . In other words each of the called biological sequences is linked to one or more assertions that describe that called biological sequence . In the illustrative embodiment the called biological sequences of the sequence dataset are also grouped by types that may be described by the same assertion s . The associations between the called biological sequences or groups thereof and the assertions may be established automatically and or manually by subject matter experts.

In the illustrative embodiment of the antibiotic resistance sequence dataset the called biological sequences include both called biological sequences that provide resistance to one or more antibiotics and called biological sequences that mediate regulation of antibiotic resistance. By way of example the called biological sequences of the antibiotic resistance sequence dataset include protein sequences associated with resistance to particular antibiotics as well as the encoding DNA sequences for those proteins. In some embodiments of the sequence dataset some of the called biological sequences may include adjoining or flanking sequences in addition to the sequence elements directly associated with one or more assertions to provide for more robust matching of sample biological sequences to those called biological sequences .

Like the custom knowledgebase the sequence dataset may be constructed and or curated in a semi automated manner as described in greater detail below with reference to . In particular some of called biological sequences of the sequence dataset may be extracted from the publications in some embodiments at the same time the assertions are extracted from the publications . As illustrated in the extraction engine may be used to digest the text of the publications to extract the called biological sequences from the text. For instance when the extraction engine detects an assertion in the one of the publications the extraction engine may then search for called biological sequences set forth in the publication as examples of that assertion . The called biological sequences found by the extraction engine may then be manually edited e.g. by subject matter experts to construct the sequence dataset .

It is also contemplated that in some embodiments additional called biological sequences may be automatically extracted from publically available databases e.g. National Center for Biotechnology Information NCBI databases and added to the sequence dataset . As described in greater detail below with reference to these additional called biological sequences may be compared to the called biological sequences extracted from the publications to determine whether they sufficiently resemble one another. If the additional called biological sequences and the called biological sequences extracted from the publications meet certain predetermined resemblance criteria they may be grouped together and associated with the same assertion s in the custom knowledgebase .

The client application interacts with the custom knowledgebase and the sequence dataset to infer information about sample biological sequences . The client application may receive the sample biological sequences from any number of sources e.g. as part of a FASTA or FASTQ format computer file . As described in greater detail below with reference to the client application may be configured to compare the sample biological sequences to the called biological sequences of the sequence dataset . Where a sample biological sequence sufficiently resembles one of the called biological sequences included in the sequence dataset the client application may then use the assertion s of the custom knowledgebase that are associated with that called biological sequence to determine one or more probable characteristics associated with that sample biological sequence . In other words the client application may utilize the knowledge represented by the custom knowledgebase and the sequence dataset to predict characteristics that will be expressed in the sample from which the sample biological sequences were read.

The client application may generate a report summarizing the results of interrogating one or more sample biological sequences including the probable characteristic s determined to be associated with those sample biological sequences . In some embodiments the report may include a ranked listing of antibiotics that are likely to be resisted by the sample from which the sample biological sequences were read. By way of illustrative example the report may list a number of antibiotics beginning with those with the most resistance elements present in the sample and concluding with those with the fewest or no resistance elements present in the sample. In some embodiments the report might also include the minimum inhibitory concentrations for the listed antibiotics and even citations and or hyperlinks to relevant publications. It will be appreciated that many other formats for the report are possible.

In the illustrative embodiment the client application is embodied as software instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which may be executed by one or more processors . The client application may provide a custom graphical user interface GUI to users of the custom knowledgebase and the sequence dataset that allows the users to create new reports access old reports store reports and keep track of different cases based on particular metagenomic sequence samples.

Referring now to one illustrative embodiment of a method of constructing the custom knowledgebase and the sequence dataset is shown as a simplified flow diagram. The method is illustrated as a number of blocks . Although the blocks are generally shown and described sequentially in the present disclosure it will be appreciated that the blocks do not necessarily need to be performed in a particular order unless otherwise noted below . For instance it is contemplated that many of the blocks might be performed in parallel with other blocks during the method .

The method begins with block in which the extraction engine is trained to recognize assertions relevant to a particular biological field in the text of the publications . In some embodiments block may involve subject matter experts and or others providing the extraction engine with examples of relevant assertions . Block might also involve subject matter experts and or others reviewing the results of previous attempts by the extraction engine to extract assertions from the text of publications and providing feedback to the extraction engine to improve its performance. In other words it is contemplated that in some embodiments the blocks may be performed iteratively as part of training the extraction engine to recognize assertions relevant to the particular biological field. In block one or more publications are selected to be input to the extraction engine for the extraction of assertions from the text of those publications . In some embodiments block may involve subject matter experts selecting peer reviewed articles from the relevant biological field that should be input to the extraction engine.

After block the method proceeds to block in which the extraction engine automatically extracts a plurality of assertions from the publications . In some embodiments the extraction engine may include natural language processing software to derive the assertions from the text of the publications . In one illustrative embodiment the natural language processing software may be embodied as the K Platform Extractor commercially available from Lymba Corporation of Richardson Tex. As discussed above in the illustrative embodiment each of the assertions extracted by the natural language processing software is expressed as an RDF triple that encodes a relationship between a subject and an object see . In some embodiments of method block may also involve automatically extracting one or more called biological sequences from the publications . For instance when the extraction engine detects an assertion in the one of the publications the extraction engine may then search for called biological sequences set forth in the publication as examples of that assertion .

After block the method proceeds to block in which the custom knowledgebase is constructed using the assertions that were automatically extracted from the publications during block . As illustrated in block also involves block in which the automatically extracted assertions are manually edited e.g. by one or more subject matter experts in the particular biological field to which the custom knowledgebase is directed . It is contemplated that the manual editing of the assertions in block may involve a number of tasks including but not limited to selecting a subset of the assertions automatically extracted from the publications for inclusion in the custom knowledgebase or alternatively deleting the assertions that should not be included in the custom knowledgebase modifying the content of one or more of the assertions automatically extracted from the publications and or creating one or more additional assertions for inclusion in the custom knowledgebase .

After block the method also proceeds to block in which the sequence dataset is constructed. In the illustrative embodiment shown in block involves constructing the sequence dataset using the called biological sequences that were automatically extracted from the publications during block . In some embodiments block may also involve blocks . In block additional called biological sequences are extracted from one or more publicly available databases e.g. an NCBI database . After block the method proceeds to block in which the additional called biological sequences extracted from the databases are compared to the called biological sequences extracted from the publications . Where one or more predetermined resemblance criteria between the additional called biological sequences extracted from the databases and the called biological sequences extracted from the publications are met these called biological sequences are grouped together.

After blocks and and or in some embodiments during blocks the method proceeds to block in which each called biological sequence or group of called biological sequences is associated with one or more of the assertions of the custom knowledgebase . In some embodiments block may involve manual editing of the associations between the called biological sequences and the assertions of the custom knowledgebase e.g. by subject matter experts . In other embodiments the associations of the called biological sequences with the assertions may be partially or fully automated. For instance an association between an assertion and a called biological sequences that are both automatically extracted from a publication during block may be maintained throughout the method .

While the method has generally been described above in terms of newly constructing the custom knowledgebase and the sequence dataset it will be appreciated that the method may also be utilized to curate or update the custom knowledgebase and the sequence dataset on an ongoing basis. For instance new publications may periodically be input to the extraction engine to extract new assertions and called biological sequences in order to keep the custom knowledgebase and the sequence dataset up to date. Similarly as additional called biological sequences are periodically added to the publicly available databases these additional called biological sequences may be added to the sequence dataset .

Referring now to one illustrative embodiment of a method of using the client application the sequence dataset and the custom knowledgebase to interrogate the sample biological sequences is shown as a simplified flow diagram. The method is illustrated as a number of blocks . Although the blocks are generally shown and described sequentially in the present disclosure it will be appreciated that the blocks do not necessarily need to be performed in a particular order unless otherwise noted below . For instance it is contemplated that many of the blocks might be performed in parallel with other blocks during the method .

The method begins with optional block in which a plurality of sample biological sequences are generated using MPS of a metagenomic sample. In other embodiments where a data file e.g. a FASTA or FASTQ format file containing sample biological sequences is received the optional block need not be performed as part of the method . In either case the client application receives sample biological sequences either from an MPS instrument or from a data file prior to proceeding to block .

In block the client application communicates with the sequence dataset to compare the sample biological sequences to the called biological sequences included in the sequence dataset . As a result of the comparisons performed in block the client application determines whether any of the sample biological sequences resembles or matches one or more of the called biological sequences . In some illustrative embodiments an alignment algorithm e.g. the BLAST algorithm may be used to determine a degree of resemblance between each sample biological sequence and each of the called biological sequences included in the sequence dataset . Each sample biological sequence may be matched to the called biological sequences with the highest degree of resemblance assuming the resemblance exceeds a threshold value. Alternatively if a sample biological sequence does not sufficiently resemble any of the called biological sequences the client application may determine that the sample biological sequence has no matches in the sequence dataset . In other embodiments the client application may require exact matching between the sample biological sequences and the called biological sequences during block .

For each sample biological sequence that is determined to resemble one of the called biological sequences during block the method proceeds to block in which the client application communicates with the custom knowledgebase to retrieve one or more of the assertions . In particular during block the assertion s that are associated with the called biological sequence determined to resemble the sample biological sequence are retrieved.

After block the method proceeds to block in which the assertions retrieved from the custom knowledgebase in block are used to determine one or more probable characteristics associated with the sample biological sequence . The resemblance between the sample biological sequence and the called biological sequence in combination with the assertions associated with the called biological sequence allow the custom knowledgebase to be used to infer information about the sample biological sequence . In the illustrative embodiment block may involve determining one or more antibiotics likely to be resisted by the sample from which the sample biological sequences were read. Like block block is performed for each sample biological sequence that was determined in block to resemble one of the called biological sequences .

The method may conclude with optional block in which a report is generated that includes the probable characteristic s determined to be associated with the sample biological sequences in block . In the illustrative embodiment the report includes a ranked listing of antibiotics that are likely to be resisted by the sample as determined in block . As noted above the report may list a number of antibiotics beginning with those with the most resistance elements present in the sample and concluding with those with the fewest or no resistance elements present in the sample. It will be appreciated that in other embodiments alternative formats for the report may be used.

While certain illustrative embodiments have been described in detail in the figures and the foregoing description such an illustration and description is to be considered as exemplary and not restrictive in character it being understood that only illustrative embodiments have been shown and described and that all changes and modifications that come within the spirit of the disclosure are desired to be protected. There are a plurality of advantages of the present disclosure arising from the various features of the methods systems and articles described herein. It will be noted that alternative embodiments of the methods systems and articles of the present disclosure may not include all of the features described yet still benefit from at least some of the advantages of such features. Those of ordinary skill in the art may readily devise their own implementations of the methods systems and articles that incorporate one or more of the features of the present disclosure.

