---

title: Information processing apparatus, information processing system, display control method, and display control program
abstract: An information processing apparatus, information processing system, display control method, and display control program stored on a recording medium, each of which receives a user input that instructs specific operation to be performed on an information apparatus, transmits information regarding the specific operation instructed by the user input to the information apparatus via the network, predicts an execution result of the specific operation to be performed on the information apparatus based on the user input to generate a predicted execution result, and displays information reflecting the predicted execution result as a response to the user input, prior to receiving a response including an actual execution result of the specific operation that is performed on the information apparatus from the information apparatus via the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09225860&OS=09225860&RS=09225860
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 09225860
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140117
---
This patent application is based on and claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 to Japanese Patent Application No. 2013 011148 filed on Jan. 24 2013 in the Japan Patent Office the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention generally relates to controlling display of a user interface and more specifically to an information processing apparatus an information processing system a display control method and a display control program stored in a recording medium each of which is capable of controlling display of a user interface at the information processing apparatus.

The recent information processing apparatuses such as a personal computer or a portable information processing terminal are used to remotely control an information apparatus by communicating data using such as a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . For example in case of remotely setting a value of a specific item on the information apparatus using the information processing apparatus the information processing apparatus may send information regarding a set value to the information apparatus every time such value is set at the information processing apparatus and display a result based on a response from the information apparatus. Alternatively the information processing apparatus may send information regarding a plurality of set values to the information apparatus at once to reflect the result of setting the set values at once.

Example embodiments of the present invention include an information processing apparatus information processing system display control method and display control program stored on a recording medium each of which receives a user input that instructs specific operation to be performed on an information apparatus transmits information regarding the specific operation instructed by the user input to the information apparatus via the network predicts an execution result of the specific operation to be performed on the information apparatus based on the user input to generate a predicted execution result and displays information reflecting the predicted execution result as a response to the user input in prior to receiving a response including an actual execution result of the specific operation that is performed on the information apparatus from the information apparatus via the network.

The accompanying drawings are intended to depict example embodiments of the present invention and should not be interpreted to limit the scope thereof. The accompanying drawings are not to be considered as drawn to scale unless explicitly noted.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In describing example embodiments shown in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner.

In the following description illustrative embodiments will be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations e.g. in the form of flowcharts that may be implemented as program modules or functional processes including routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types and may be implemented using existing hardware at existing network elements or control nodes. Such existing hardware may include one or more Central Processing Units CPUs digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays FPGAs computers or the like. These terms in general may be referred to as processors.

Unless specifically stated otherwise or as is apparent from the discussion terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

In the following example embodiments an image processing system including an image processing apparatus and an information processing terminal is described as an example of an information processing system. The image processing apparatus such as a multifunctional peripheral MFP is an example of an information apparatus. The information processing terminal is an example of an information processing apparatus that allows the user to remotely operate the information apparatus such as the image processing apparatus.

The MFP and the information processing terminal may each be implemented by an apparatus independent from each other. However it is technically possible to incorporate the functions of the information processing terminal to be incorporated into the MFP for example as a control system that controls operation of the MFP .

The MFP provides various image processing functions such as copy function scan function facsimile function and print function. In this example the MFP is a subject for control by the information processing terminal . More specifically the information processing terminal functions as an operation device that a user operates to control the MFP . In one example the information processing terminal may be implemented by a general purpose operation device having a user interface such as a personal computer including a notebook computer or a tablet computer a smart phone or a personal digital assistant PDA . Alternatively the information processing terminal may be implemented by a dedicated operation device specially designed for the MFP to operate the MFP . As described above the information processing terminal may be mounted on or provided in the MFP .

The information processing terminal receives a user instruction for setting one or more specific image processing functions of the MFP from the user and notifies the user of information regarding the set image processing functions of the MFP . The MFP receives the user instruction for setting the image processing functions of the MFP from the information processing terminal performs operation of setting the image processing functions and sends an execution result of setting the image processing functions to the information processing terminal . More specifically the execution result indicates whether setting of the specific image processing functions is successful. This process of communicating between the information processing terminal and the MFP to set image processing functions according to the user instruction is so called settings operation.

In case the information processing terminal which is independent of the MFP remotely controls settings operation with respect to the MFP the MFP and the information processing terminal communicate with each other to perform settings operation using the predetermined communications protocol. For example in case of remotely controlling settings operation using the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP the information processing terminal communicates with the MFP each time a user instruction for setting a specific item is received at the information processing terminal for example through a transaction of a HTTP request and a HTTP response. Depending on a condition of the network that connects the MFP and the information processing terminal or a communications protocol used for communication the response that is sent from the MFP in response to the request from the information processing terminal may delay thus causing a slow response with respect to the user instruction regarding the settings operation. With this delay the user at the information processing terminal may press the same key more than once thus lowering efficiency in settings operation.

Alternatively the information processing terminal may send information regarding a plurality of items that the user instructed to set for a predetermined time period to the MFP at once and reflect setting of the plurality of items at once based on a response from the MFP . While this may reduce a data traffic an error in settings operation is reflected at the information processing terminal only after the information processing terminal receives the response from the MFP . This may require the user to re enter a set value while some items may not be set due to an error at the MFP . Further if the user cancels or modifies a set value at the information processing terminal such change is not timely reflected at the information processing terminal as the information processing terminal displays information only after it receives a response from the MFP .

In view of the above in the following example embodiments while waiting for a response from the MFP in response to a request for setting items on the MFP the information processing terminal predicts a result of executing settings operation at the MFP in response to that request and displays information based on the predicted execution result. Accordingly the information processing terminal displays information based on a predicted execution result in response to the user instruction more quickly even in case the response indicating the actual execution result from the MFP is delayed. With a faster response to the user instruction the user at the information processing terminal is suppressed from repeatedly pressing the same key.

Referring now to operation of controlling display of a user interface at the information processing terminal performed by the image processing system of is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention.

The MFP includes a network communication device a network server a job configuration manager an application programming interface API a memory manager an engine manager a user data manager a plotter and a scanner .

The network communication device is implemented by for example a network interface circuit and transmits or receives data through the network using a communications protocol such as Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP . The network server analyzes data to be transmitted or received through the network communication device and controls transmission or reception of data with respect to the outside apparatus. For example the network server may be implemented by a web server based on httpd such as a IITTP daemon. The network server executes processing according to a HTTP request received from a HTTP client and responds an execution result of processing the HTTP request to the HTTP client.

The plotter performs image forming operation using image forming devices such as a photoconductor an image developing device a transfer device etc. in response to an instruction for printing that is generated by a print application. The scanner performs image reading operation using a scanner that scans an original image into image data in response to an instruction for scanning that is generated by a scan application.

The memory manager controls operation with respect to a memory of the MFP for example in the process of image forming or image reading. For example the memory manager reserves or releases an image memory space or compresses or expands image data in the memory.

The engine manager manages hardware resources such as the plotter or the scanner to control image forming operation or image reading operation.

The user data manager manages various user specific data such as an address book of each user user authentication data or user authorization data.

The memory manager engine manager and user data manger may be implemented by a processor that operates in cooperation with a memory according to various programs.

The API is provided between a platform layer including the components to that is the memory manager engine manager and user data manager and an upper layer including application such as print application and scan application. The API transfers various processing requests from the upper layer to the components to of the platform layer using a predetermined functional module.

The job configuration manager manages settings information regarding one or more items to be set for a job to be performed. The job configuration manager may be implemented by a processor that operates in cooperation with the memory. Examples of the job include but not limited to a print job to be performed in response to a print instruction a scan job to be performed in response to a scan instruction and a copy job to be performed in response to a copy instruction. For the copy job the settings information indicates selection of a sheet tray selection of a discharge tray whether to combine a multiple pages into one page image size enlargement or reduction post processing to be performed such as sorting or stapling etc. The job configuration manager communicates with the memory manager engine manager and or user data manager via the API to obtain information managed by at least one of these components. Using the obtained information the job configuration manager determines whether settings operation can be executed according to the user instruction for setting which is received from the information processing terminal . The job configuration manager executes settings operation based on a determination result indicating whether settings operation can be executed and sends the execution result to the information processing terminal through the network communication device and the network server .

In this example illustrated in the job configuration manager functions as a manager that manages execution of settings operation. The network communication device and the network server function as a receiver that receives a user instruction regarding settings operation from the information processing terminal and a transmitter that transmits an execution result of executing settings operation to the information processing terminal .

The MFP has a hardware structure that is substantially similar to that of a known MFP such that its explanation is omitted.

Still referring to the information processing terminal includes a network communication device an input output device an operation display device and a prediction model manager .

The network communication device which may be implemented by a network interface circuit transmits or receives data through the network using a communications protocol such as TCP IP.

The input output device includes an input device such as a keyboard a touch panel and or a microphone and an output device such as a display that may be an external display or an incorporated display and or a speaker. The input output device receives a user input through the input device or displays a processing result thorough the output device.

The operation display device controls transmission or reception of data regarding settings operation transmitted through the network communication device . The operation display device operates in cooperation with the input output device to provide a user interface that allows the user to instruct settings operation. For example the operation display device may be implemented by a web browser that performs operation based on HTML data received from the MFP . Alternatively the operation display device may be implemented by a dedicated application that functions as a HTTP client that processes data to be transmitted or received using the HTTP.

In this example the operation display device receives settings operation screen data that allows the user to input information regarding various settings for the MFP from the MFP . Based on the settings operation screen data the operation display device causes the input output device to display a settings operation screen.

The operation display device receives a user input that inputs or selects a set value of an item with respect to the settings operation screen through the input output device . The operation display device transmits information regarding the item to be set to the MFP through the network communication device . The operation display device causes the input output device to display a predicted result of settings operation that is a predicted result of setting the set value based on a prediction model managed by the prediction model manager .

The prediction model manager manages the prediction model which is used to predict an execution result of executing settings operation by the MFP in response to the user input regarding settings operation. The prediction model memory may be implemented by a processor that operates in cooperation with a memory area of a supplemental memory such as a hard disk drive HDD solid state drive SSD or flash memory.

In this example the operation display device may be implemented by a processor such as a CPU which operates in cooperation with a display such as a touch panel that functions as the input output device . More specifically the operation display device includes an operation input a response display a predictor and a match probability manager .

The operation input receives a user input for instructing the MFP to execute settings operation such as selection of a set value of an item being displayed on the settings operation screen. In response to the user input the operation input transmits information regarding a set value of the item to be set to the MFP through the network communication device as well as to the predictor . The operation input with the input output device thus performs the inputting function. The operation input with the communication device thus performs the transmitting function.

The predictor refers to the prediction model stored in the memory and managed by the prediction model manager to predict an execution result of settings operation which is being performed at the MFP based on the information regarding a set value of the item. The predicted execution result generated by the predictor is output to the response display .

The response display causes the display such as the touch panel functioning as the input output device to display a predicted response with respect to the user input regarding settings operation based on the predicted execution result generated by the predictor in prior to receiving a response from the MFP . When the response display receives a response indicating the actual execution result of the settings operation from the MFP the response display obtains the difference between the actual execution result and the predicted execution result and updates the predicted execution result on the display to reflect the actual execution result when there is any difference. More specifically the predicted execution result will be changed to reflect the actual execution result. Accordingly the response display performs the display controlling function.

In this example illustrated in the network communication device and the operation display device function as a transmitter that sends information regarding settings operation to the MFP and a result receiver that receives an execution result of settings operation from the MFP . The input output device and the operation input performs the input function that accepts the user input that instructs the MFP to perform settings operation. The predictor performs the predicting function that predicts an execution result of settings operation by the MFP based on the user input that instructs settings operation. The input output device and the response display performs the display control function that displays a predicted response indicating the predicted execution result of settings operation instructed by the user input based on the predicted execution result predicated by the user input.

Referring now to operation of displaying a settings operation screen at the information processing terminal performed by the information processing terminal that operates in cooperation with the MFP is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention.

At S the network communication device of the information processing terminal requests the MFP for data for displaying a settings operation screen settings operation screen data .

At S the network communication device of the MFP sends the settings operation screen data to the information processing terminal in response to the request. In this example the settings operation screen data includes options regarding set values of the respective items on the settings operation screen currently set values of the items and various other data that relate to the settings operation screen.

At S the information processing terminal causes the input output device to display the settings operation screen based on the settings operation screen data received from the MFP .

In the A3 tray key is displayed in dark color indicating that the value A3 is currently selected for the sheet tray item.

Referring back to at S the operation input of the information processing terminal determines whether a user input is received through the settings operation screen being displayed through the input output device . When it is determined that there is no user input detected at S NO at S the operation repeats S to wait for any user input. When it is determined that the there is a user input detected at S YES at S the operation proceeds to S.

At S the operation input of the information processing terminal receives a user input that indicates a set value of a specific item that is selected by the user. For example assuming that the A4 tray key is selected from the operation settings screen of the information processing terminal receives the set value A4 for the sheet tray item through the operation input .

At S the information processing terminal sends the set value of the item that is input to the MFP through the network communication device . For example the set value A4 for the sheet tray item is transmitted to the MFP .

In concurrent with waiting for a response from the MFP at S the operation display device of the information processing terminal instructs the match probability manager to obtain a prediction model stored in the memory . Based on the obtained prediction model the predictor obtains a predicted execution result which is a prediction of a result to be obtained by the MFP that performs settings operation as requested by the user input.

At S the response display of the information processing terminal causes the display functioning as the input output device to display a predicted response indicating the predicted execution result of the settings operation as instructed by the user input.

In the settings operation screen of in response to the user selection of the A4 tray key the A4 tray key is displayed inverted indicating that the set value A4 is predicted to be selected for the sheet tray item.

In alternative to displaying the user selection of the A4 tray key as illustrated in the response display may additionally display an icon based on the predicted execution result until when the information processing terminal receives a response indicating the actual execution result from the MFP . In the icon TBD which stands for to be decided indicates that selection of the A4 tray key is based on prediction. As long as the icon reflects that selection is tentative any other symbol may be used. Further in alternative to the icon the response display may display the selected key differently such as with a bolded line. Alternatively the response display may display additional information such as a message a pop up window or balloon which indicates that selection of the tray is tentative.

After the information processing terminal sends information regarding the set value of the set item to be set to the MFP at S the MFP performs S to S.

At S the MFP receives the set value of the set item received from the information processing terminal through the network communication device .

At S the job configuration manager of the MFP inquires at least one of the memory manager engine manager and user data manager to inquire about various information regarding settings operation to be performed.

At S the job configuration manager of the MFP performs settings operation in which the set value of the set item is analyzed and reflected. In one example the execution result of the settings operation indicates that setting of the set value is successfully performed. Alternatively the execution result of the settings operation indicates that setting of the set value is not successfully performed for example due to an error. For example when a sheet tray corresponding to the selected A4 tray is out of recording sheets an error is generated. In another example when stapling or sorting which corresponds to the staple key or the sort key cannot be performed due to a trouble in post processing an error is generated. This determination is made based on information obtained from any one of the memory manager engine manager and user data manager . At S the job configuration manager of the MFP obtains the execution result of performing the settings operation at the MFP based on the request received from the information processing terminal .

At S the MFP sends a response with the execution result of the settings operation which indicates whether the settings operation is successfully performed at the MFP to the information processing terminal through the network communication device .

After displaying the predicted response at S the information processing terminal proceeds to perform S. At S the information processing terminal determines whether the response with the execution result is received from the MFP through the network communication device . When it is determined that the response with the execution result is not received NO at S the operation repeats S to keep waiting for the response. When it is determined that the response with the execution result is received YES at S the operation proceeds to S.

At S the response display of the information processing terminal compares between the predicted execution result obtained at S and the actual execution result received at S to determine whether the predicted execution result matches the actual execution result. When it is determined that the predicted execution result matches the actual execution result YES at S the operation ends. In such case the response display of the information processing terminal keeps displaying the predicted execution result on the display. In case the additional icon is displayed as illustrated in the response display of the information processing terminal stops displaying the icon to indicate that selection of the A4 tray key is fixed.

When it is determined that the predicted execution result does not match the actual execution result NO at S the operation proceeds to S. At S the response display of the information processing terminal updates the display so as to display the fixed response indicating the actual execution result received from the MFP and the operation ends.

When updating the display based on the actual execution result the response display may preferably display an additional text to indicate that display of the predicted result is changed to the fixed result. In this example settings operation screen of when the actual execution result indicates that the staple key is unselected which differs from the predicted execution result indicating that the staple key is selected a warning icon and a message indicating that updated to correct value are displayed. In alternative to the warning icon and or the message such additional information may be displayed in various other forms or ways.

Referring now to a prediction model which is stored in the memory of the information processing terminal under control of the prediction model manager of and referred to by the information processing terminal at S of is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention. illustrates an example data structure of the prediction model managed by the prediction model manager . For each one of current set values of set items current settings in the table the predicted set value predicted settings data in the cell is stored in association with each specific settings operation to be performed with respect to the set item settings operation in the table .

Depending on a type of information processing apparatus such as the MFP there may be a combination of set values that cannot be set at the same time. For example in case of copier such as the MFP as illustrated in the non standard size document cannot be selected while the mixed size document is currently set. As the predicted execution result selection of the set value non standard size document is prohibited when the current set value mixed size document is selected. In such case it is predicted that setting of the set value non standard size document fails resulting in non selection of the non standard size document .

The prediction table of is one example of a table storing static information indicating possible combinations of set items that cannot be set at the same time and possible combinations of set items that can be set at the same time. With the prediction table of the information processing terminal is able to search whether the set value to be set with respect to the current set value is allowed. The prediction model may be implemented in various ways in alternative to the prediction table of such that the prediction model may be implemented as a program code that includes selecting or determining processing.

Further in alternative to or in addition to statically defining the possible combinations of set values using the prediction model the prediction model may dynamically define whether selection of a specific set value should be prohibited based on collected status information regarding the MFP . For example the status information of the MFP may be collected periodically or at any desired time. For example the information processing terminal may periodically obtain status information regarding a status of the A4 sheet tray. Based on the status information when the A4 sheet tray is not out of recording sheet the information processing terminal determines that the set value A4 can be set. In such case the predictor of the information processing terminal determines that changing from the currently set value to the set value A4 is allowed. Based on the status information when the A4 sheet tray is out of recording sheet the set value A4 cannot be set. In such case the predictor of the information processing terminal determines that change from the currently set value to the set value A4 is prohibited.

In one example in response to the user selection at the information processing terminal the response display refers to the prediction model of to obtain the attribute data identified by the attribute data ID. In this manner additional information based on the attribute data can be displayed as the predicted response. Further in addition to the attribute data the response display may obtain the predicted execution result as described above referring to . In such case the prediction model of may additionally store information regarding the predicted execution result in the cell or the attribute data may include information regarding the predicted execution result. illustrate settings operation screens when the predicted response is displayed including additional information based on attribute data.

In this example any one of the prediction models of may be previously generated by a vender of the MFP based on a specification of the MFP . Alternatively the prediction model may be obtained at any desired time from a server of the vendor through the Internet for example so as to keep the prediction model updated.

While the prediction model can be prepared according to the specification of the MFP even with the prediction model the predicted execution result may not be always accurate as it relates to a current status of the MFP that may vary from time to time. In one example in order to further improve operability for the user the operation display device of may further include the match probability manager .

The match probability manager which may be implemented by the processor that operates in cooperation with any desired memory stores the match probability indicating a successful rate when the predicted execution result matches the actual execution result received from the MFP . In this example the response display may display the predicted execution result in a manner that reflects the match probability.

For example it is assumed that the staple is selected from the settings operation screen of . In displaying the predicted execution result in response to selection of the staple key the response display refers to the match probability table of to obtain the match probability of the set value staple is 6 11 which is less than 90 . The response display further refers to the appearance correspondence table of to obtain the triangle icon which is associated with the match probability of less than 90 . As illustrated in an icon having the triangle shape is displayed above the staple key which is displayed as unselected. With the additional information indicating the match probability the user can instantly recognize that selection of the staple key may not be accepted at the MFP .

In this example illustrated in an appearance of additional information to be displayed is changed specifically by changing a symbol used for the icon. The appearance of additional information to be displayed is however not limited to this example such that a numerical value or any other design that reflects the match probability may be used.

Referring now to operation of displaying a user interface related to settings operation performed by the information processing terminal that operates in cooperation with the MFP is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention. illustrates a data sequence diagram illustrating operation of controlling display of a user interface related to settings operation performed by the MFP and the information processing terminal that communicate with each other via the network .

At S the information processing terminal receives the user input regarding the settings operation through the input output device for example user selection of the staple key from the settings operation screen being displayed at the information processing terminal .

At S the input output device sends information regarding the set value of the set item based on the user selection to the operation display device .

At S the operation display device sends information regarding the set value of the set item to the network communication device of the MFP via the network through the network communication device . At S and S the network communication device transfers the information regarding the set value of the set item to the job configuration manager under control of the network server .

In concurrent with sending settings information to the job configuration manager at S the operation display device sends a request for obtaining the predicted execution result to the prediction model manager . More specifically the request includes settings information that is received at the input output device such as the selection of the staple key.

At S the prediction model manager refers to the prediction model to obtain the predicted execution result and sends a response including the predicted execution result to the operation display device . For example referring to the prediction model of or A the prediction model manager obtains a predicted execution result in the cell for the current set value orientation cannot read and the settings operation staple that is the predicted execution result prohibited . Based on the response from the prediction model manager the operation display device predicts non selection of the staple key 

At S the operation display device sends a request for obtaining attribute data from the attribute data table to the prediction model manager . In this example the request includes settings information that is received at the input output device or the predicted execution result obtained at S.

At S the prediction model manager obtains the attribute data from the attribute data table and sends a response including the attribute data to the operation display device . For example referring to the attribute data table of which may be associated with the table of or the prediction model manager obtains attribute data indicating cannot set with current orientation which is associated with the obtained predicted execution result.

At S the operation display sends the predicted execution result with the attribute data to the input output device to display information based on the predicted execution result and the attribute data.

At S the input output device displays the predicted execution result. For example the operation settings screen may include the predicted execution result with the message cannot set with current orientation .

In response to the request for settings operation received at S at S the job configuration manager of the MFP determines whether settings operation can be successfully performed for example by analyzing the value to be set with various information obtainable from the memory manager engine manager or user data manager .

At S the job configuration manager sets the value of the set item according to the settings information received from the user through the information processing terminal based on determination that the settings operation can be successfully performed. In one example when selection of the staple key is successfully performed such that the set value staple is reflected. In case the settings operation cannot be successfully performed the job configuration manager rejects setting of the value. In one example when setting of selection of the staple key based on the user input fails the set value is kept at the current set value.

As the set value is reflected at S and S the job configuration manager sends a response indicating the actual execution result to the information processing terminal through the network communication device under control of the network server through the network . At S the network communication device of the information processing terminal transfers the response indicating the actual execution result to the operation display device .

In response to the actual execution result at the operation display device compares the predicted execution result with the actual execution result to determine whether the predicted execution result matches the actual execution result.

At S the operation display device updates the probability match table of FIG. A which may be stored in a memory under control of the prediction model manager based on the determination result indicating whether the predicted execution result matches.

At S the operation display device instructs the input output device to display the fixed response indicating the actual execution result that is the actual set value. At S the input output device displays the actual execution result. In this example in case the predicted execution result does not match the actual execution result the input output device displays the operation settings screen which includes additional information indicating that the set value is updated to reflect the actual set value. For example with display of the message updated to correct value a display of the staple key is changed from the non selected status to the selected status . In case the predicted execution result matches the actual execution result the input output device stops displaying the additional information indicating that selection is tentative and displays the settings operation screen indicating the set value.

As described above in one example embodiment in response to a user input that selects a set value to be set at the MFP through the information processing terminal information regarding settings operation such as the set value is sent to the MFP . Concurrently in prior to receiving the actual execution result of settings operation from the MFP the information processing terminal causes the input output device to display information based on the predicted execution result of settings operation. With this configuration even when the response regarding the execution result from the MFP is delayed the information processing terminal is able to timely respond to the user input.

Further the predicted execution result is generated based on the prediction model prepared for the MFP . Accordingly the predicted execution result of settings operation tends to match the actual execution result of settings operation such that information based on the predicted execution result being displayed is not likely to be changed to reflect the actual execution result as their matching rate tends to be high.

Further the information processing terminal may display additional information indicating that information based on the predicted execution result being displayed is based on prediction. With this additional information indicating display of the predicted execution result the user is able to instantly know that the information being displayed is the predicted execution result which may differ from the actual execution result.

In case the predicted execution result does not match the actual execution result the information processing terminal may display additional information indicating that the information based on the predicted execution result is changed to reflect the actual execution result. With this additional information indicating the change to the actual execution result the user can instantly recognize that there is a change to reflect the actual execution result.

Further the information processing terminal may display additional information regarding the predicted execution result based on attribute data such that the user is able to know more about the user s selection on the set value. For example the additional information regarding the predicted execution result may indicate that the user s selection on the set value is not selectable. In prior to receiving the fixed response indicating the actual execution result the information processing terminal is able to notify the user of a possibility of an error. With this additional information regarding the predicted execution result indicating the error the user does not have to wonder why the user s selection is not selected.

Further the information processing terminal may collect information regarding the match probability that indicates the probability in which the predicted execution result matches the actual execution result. The information processing terminal may display additional information that reflects the match probability preferably together with the predicted execution result in prior to receiving the actual execution result from the MFP . With this additional information that reflects the match probability the user is able to know more about the predicted execution result being displayed such as the possibility that display of the predicted execution result is changed to the actual execution result.

Referring now to an image processing system A including the MFP and an information processing terminal A is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention. The image processing system A of is substantially similar in function and operation to the image processing system of except that the information processing terminal A is additionally provided with a prediction model update .

The prediction model update updates the prediction model which is used for predicting the execution result of settings operation to be performed by the MFP according to the user input based on the match probability regarding the predicted execution result. In one example the prediction model update updates the prediction model such as the prediction model of or based on the match probability managed by the match probability table of . The prediction model update may be implemented by a processor which operates in cooperation with any desired memory of the information processing terminal .

At S the prediction model update determines whether a trigger for updating the prediction model is detected. Examples of a condition at which a trigger is detected include but not limited to the time when a user instruction for updating is received the time when a scheduled update event is to be performed and the time when a number of performing prediction reaches a threshold value. When it is determined that the trigger is not detected NO at S the operation repeats S. When it is determined that the trigger is detected YES at S the operation proceeds to S to perform processing of S to S for a set value of each set item being managed by the prediction model. Alternatively the user may select one or more set items to be subject for updating.

At S the prediction model update obtains a match probability of the set value from the match probability table of . At S the prediction model update determines whether a change condition that is previously set is satisfied based on the obtained match probability. In this example the change condition is a previously set criterion which indicates the need for changing the prediction model so as to improve the match probability when the match probability is low. For example the change condition may be set based on a total number of performing prediction of a set item such as 30 times or more a value of the match probability such as the value less than 20 or a combination of the total number of prediction and the value of match probability.

When it is determined that the change condition is satisfied at S YES at S the operation proceeds to S.

At S the prediction model update updates the prediction model table according to a previously set rule. For example when the match probability of the predicted execution result prohibited is less than a threshold the value of the prediction model table of is changed from prohibited to OK . In another example when the match probability of the predicted execution result OK is less than a threshold the value of the prediction model table of is changed from OK to prohibited .

As described above in the image processing system A of when the match probability is low the information processing terminal updates the prediction model to improve the prediction accuracy. The prediction model is updated based on the actual operation history of the MFP such that the prediction model reflects the actual environments under which the MFP operates.

Referring now to a hardware structure of the information processing terminal is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention. In this example the information processing terminal may be implemented by for example a tablet PC.

The information processing terminal includes a mobile processor a memory a flash memory a removable memory slot a touch screen controller a display interface a display a video interface a camera interface a camera a sound codec a sound switch a wirelss LAN port a NFC port and a power control unit .

The mobile processor includes a single core or a multi core central processing unit CPU a GPU a baseband processor and a memory controller etc. which may be integrated to form a System on Chip SoC . The memory may be implemented by a lower power double daterate LPDDR SDRAM which is connected to the mobile processor to function as a work area for the CPU. The flash memory stores therein various programs such as an operating system OS for controlling the information processing terminal a control program that provides the above described function of controlling display of a user interface various system data or various settings data. To the removable memory slot a removable memory such as a SD card may be inserted. The removable memory may store therein user data.

The mobile processor is connected to the display which is provided with a touch screen sensor via the touch screen controller and the display interface . The display displays various screens such as any one of the above described settings operation screens. The video interface connected to the mobile processor outputs a video signal and may be implemented by a high definition multimedia interface HDMI . The video interface may be connected to an external display or a projector to output the video signal.

The camera may be implemented by an imaging sensor such as a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS . The camera is connected to the mobile processor through the camera interface .

The sound codec encodes or decodes sounds. The sound switch switches sounds output through a head phone or a speaker.

The mobile processor is connected to ports that allow communication with the external apparatus via a wireless network such as the wireless LAN port and the NFC port . Through the NFC port data may be communicated using the Bluetooth. In this example the information processing terminal is connected to the network via the wireless LAN port and the NFC port or a wired interface device.

In this example at the information processing terminal the CPU of the mobile processor reads the control program from the flash memory onto a working area of the memory to perform any one of the above described functions or operations.

More specifically the network communication device corresponds to the wireless LAN port and the NFC . The input output device corresponds to at least the display . The operation display device corresponds to the mobile processor which controls the display through the touch screen controller and the display interface according to the control program in the memory . The prediction model manager corresponds to the mobile processor which controls any desired memory such as the flash memory or the removable memory according to the control program in the memory .

As described above in response to a user input regarding settings operation to be performed on the MFP the information processing terminal timely displays a predicted execution result of settings operation in prior to receiving a response indicating an actual execution result of settings operation from the MFP .

Numerous additional modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the disclosure of the present invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. For example elements and or features of different illustrative embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

In the above described example embodiments the components to of are provided in the information processing terminal . Alternatively any one of the components to may be provided in a plurality of apparatuses such that they may be distributed over a network.

For example the match probability manager the prediction model manager and the prediction model update may be provided in one or more server apparatuses separately from the information processing terminal . In such case the request and the response are communicated via the network.

In another example the predictor may be provided at an information processing apparatus which transmits a predicted execution result to the information processing terminal in response to settings information received from the information processing terminal .

Moreover in alternative to instructing the MFP to perform settings operation of setting a set value of an item on the MFP the user at the information processing terminal may instruct the MFP to perform operation other than the above described example as long as execution of such operation at the MFP would be reflected on the display of the information processing terminal . In such case the prediction model may be stored based on various information regarding the specific operation to be performed on the MFP .

Further any of the above described devices or units can be implemented as a hardware apparatus such as a special purpose circuit or device or as a hardware software combination such as a processor executing a software program.

Further as described above any one of the above described functions or methods of the present invention may be embodied in the form of a computer program stored in any kind of recording medium that may be removable. For example any one of the above described functions or methods may be performed according to a computer executable program which may be written in any desired legacy programming language such as assembler C C C and Java or objected oriented programming language. Examples of recording mediums include but are not limited to ROM EEPROM EPROM flash memory flexible disk CD ROM CD RW DVD ROM DVD RAM DVD RW blue ray disc SD card MO etc. Alternatively such program may be distributed over the network to be downloaded onto the information processing terminal .

Alternatively any one of the above described and other methods of the present invention may be implemented by ASIC prepared by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits or by a combination thereof with one or more conventional general purpose microprocessors and or signal processors programmed accordingly.

The present invention can be implemented in any convenient form for example using dedicated hardware or a mixture of dedicated hardware and software. The present invention may be implemented as computer software implemented by one or more networked processing apparatuses. The network can comprise any conventional terrestrial or wireless communications network such as the Internet. The processing apparatuses can compromise any suitably programmed apparatuses such as a general purpose computer personal digital assistant mobile telephone such as a WAP or 3G compliant phone and so on. Since the present invention can be implemented as software each and every aspect of the present invention thus encompasses computer software implementable on a programmable device. The computer software can be provided to the programmable device using any storage medium for storing processor readable code such as a floppy disk hard disk CD ROM magnetic tape device or solid state memory device.

The hardware platform includes any desired kind of hardware resources including for example a central processing unit CPU a random access memory RAM and a hard disk drive HDD . The CPU may be implemented by any desired kind of any desired number of processor. The RAM may be implemented by any desired kind of volatile or non volatile memory. The HDD may be implemented by any desired kind of non volatile memory capable of storing a large amount of data. The hardware resources may additionally include an input device an output device or a network device depending on the type of the apparatus. Alternatively the HDD may be provided outside of the apparatus as long as the HDD is accessible. In this example the CPU such as a cashe memory of the CPU and the RAM may function as a physical memory or a primary memory of the apparatus while the HDD may function as a secondary memory of the apparatus.

