---

title: Secure on-premise gleaning to modify an electronic program guide (EPG)
abstract: Methods and systems for providing secure on-premises gleaning to modify an electronic program guide are disclosed. In an embodiment, a method involves receiving, at a network interface, network data traffic and routing the network data traffic between an external network and an internal network and receiving, at a broadcast interface, media content and an electronic programming guide from a media content distributor. The method also involves parsing the network data traffic to glean preference information, providing the preference information to a recommendation engine via a secure local path, and modifying an electronic programming guide to prioritize the media content according to the preference information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09226036&OS=09226036&RS=09226036
owner: PACE PLC
number: 09226036
owner_city: West Yorkshire
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20140822
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 879 284 filed Sep. 18 2013 entitled SECURE ON PREMISE GLEANING TO MODIFY AN ELECTRONIC PROGRAM GUIDE EPG which is incorporated herein.

Set top boxes connect a user s television to a content provider and allow the user to access live television as well as archived television programming and or movies music games etc. The collection of content available to the user is typically enormous and oftentimes unwieldy to the point that the user is unable to find desired content among the available content. The growth of video streaming over the Internet only exacerbates this issue.

Content providers utilize set top boxes with electronic programming guides EPGs as a way for the user to navigate the content. The set top boxes often have electronic program guides with recommendation engines that provide suggestions of content to the user based on the user s viewing history. The recommendation engine can automatically record shows and channels and present advertising based on the viewing history. The recommendation engine typically gathers data from input received from a remote control. Generally the input may be correlated with external sources.

However with the proliferation of portable communication devices such as mobile phones personal digital assistants etc. and streaming of content over the Internet to these devices the usefulness of the set top box recommendation engine decreases. Although many set top boxes are Internet enabled the portable devices bypass the set top box when accessing the content and therefore information that could be highly relevant to a recommendation goes unused.

Methods and systems for providing secure on premises gleaning to modify an electronic program guide are disclosed. In an embodiment a method involves receiving at a network interface network data traffic and routing the network data traffic between an external network and an internal network and receiving at a broadcast interface media content and an electronic programming guide from a media content distributor. The method also involves parsing the network data traffic to glean preference information providing the preference information to a recommendation engine via a secure local path and modifying an electronic programming guide to prioritize the media content according to the preference information.

An embodiment of a system is also disclosed. The system includes a network interface for routing network data traffic between an external and an internal network and a broadcast interface for receiving media content and an electronic programming guide from a media content distributor. The system also includes a memory device and a processor coupled to the memory device wherein the memory device stores computer readable program code which when executed by the processor causes the processor to parse the network data traffic to glean preference information provide the preference information to a recommendation engine via a secure local path and modify the electronic programming guide to prioritize the media content according to the preference information.

A unified home gateway device is also disclosed. The unified gateway device includes a first network traffic interface to an external network and a second network traffic interface to an internal network a network router configured to route network data traffic between the external network and the internal network a broadcast traffic interface configured to receive mass media from a media content provider and a tuner coupled to the broadcast traffic interface and configured to tune to broadcast channels. The unified home gateway also includes a processor and memory configured to implement a behavior analyzer configured to parse the network data traffic to glean preference information and communicate the preference information to a recommendation engine via a secure local path wherein the recommendation engine is configured to modify an electronic programming guide to prioritize the mass media according to the preference information.

Other aspects and advantages of embodiments of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrated by way of example of the principles of the invention.

It will be readily understood that the components of the embodiments as generally described herein and illustrated in the appended figures could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following more detailed description of various embodiments as represented in the figures is not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure but is merely representative of various embodiments. While the various aspects of the embodiments are presented in drawings the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale unless specifically indicated.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by this detailed description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

Reference throughout this specification to features advantages or similar language does not imply that all of the features and advantages that may be realized with the present invention should be or are in any single embodiment of the invention. Rather language referring to the features and advantages is understood to mean that a specific feature advantage or characteristic described in connection with an embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus discussions of the features and advantages and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features advantages and characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize in light of the description herein that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific features or advantages of a particular embodiment. In other instances additional features and advantages may be recognized in certain embodiments that may not be present in all embodiments of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the indicated embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

While many embodiments are described herein at least some of the described embodiments present a home gateway in a home media environment. The home gateway represents the convergence of a television set top box that accesses television programming and a network router that enables network capable devices to connect to the Internet. As many Internet service providers ISPs also provide television programming the home gateway to be described below is configured to access both the Internet and media content e.g. live and recorded television programming music movies etc. . The home gateway is configured to parse network traffic to glean preference information and to use the preference information to make recommendations in an electronic program guide EPG based on the network traffic. As used herein the phrase network traffic refers to data traffic encapsulated in network packets that is communicated over a computer network e.g. Internet traffic . Beneficially the home gateway communicates the preference information over a secure local path without exposing the information to an external third party server outside of the home. Accordingly the home gateway provides a secure and private environment in which to perform network traffic analysis. Stated differently because the home gateway can perform network traffic parsing to glean user preference information such as interest categories and to make programming recommendations based on the gleaning without sending the preference information or the raw data from which the preference information was determined to a server over the Internet the user s preference information is more secure and Internet usage remains private. Additionally the burden of analyzing potentially millions of users is offloaded to the user s home gateway.

In an embodiment the home gateway is configured to glean user preference information by generating user profiles. As used herein the term glean refers to extracting preference information from network traffic by identifying keywords metadata associated with the network traffic. For example if a user browses to a sports news website the gleaned keywords metadata values may be basketball football etc. The keywords hereinafter broadly referred to as metadata and metadata values may be grouped together into categories. A category may contain a single metadata value. Each user profile includes metadata values and corresponding scores e.g. a frequency of metadata value occurrence by monitoring network traffic of a user and correlating the metadata values with keywords in the network traffic. The home gateway in one example includes a network interface for routing network traffic between an external and an internal network and an interface for receiving media content from a media content distributor. The home gateway is also configured to communicate the user profile to a recommendation engine identify content based on the user profile and modify an electronic programming guide based on the user profile.

The network architecture may include in one embodiment a home gateway . An Internet service provider communicatively couples the home gateway with the Internet . The Internet service provider is configured to provide services such as Internet access Internet transit mailbox service etc. to users of the network architecture . The Internet service provider may provide access to the Internet via various protocols and technologies. Examples include but are not limited to digital subscriber line DSL integrated services digital network ISDN fiber to the home FTTH Ethernet wireless access etc. The home gateway as will be described in greater detail below is configured with at least one interface for communicating with the Internet service provider . For example the home gateway may include a DSL interface for communicating with the Internet service provider via twisted pair wiring.

The home gateway is also configured to communicate with a media content provider . The media content provider in one embodiment is a mass media provider. In other words the media content provider distributes e.g. via broadcast and or narrowcast mass media from media distributors to users of the network architecture . The media content provider is capable of providing access to broadcast media such as radio recorded music film and television. Additionally the media content provider may be configured to provide digital representations of physical objects such as print media e.g. newspapers books etc. . The media content provider in one embodiment provides access to media content via coaxial cables. Accordingly the home gateway may be configured with a coaxial cable interface for communicating with the media content provider via a satellite dish or a cable headend. In an alternative embodiment the home gateway may be configured with an interface for receiving content via for example twisted pair cable fiber etc. In yet another embodiment the home gateway may be configured to receive wireless signals via an attached antenna.

The home gateway is configured to distribute content from the Internet or the media distributor to content presentation devices . These devices include but are not limited to computers portable electronic devices and televisions . Each of the devices may be network enabled and configured to communicate with the home gateway via a local area network . Examples of portable electronic devices include but are not limited to laptops tablets mobile telephones electronic organizers smartphones personal digital assistants communicators etc. The home gateway in one embodiment connects the local area network LAN with both a wide area network WAN i.e. the Internet and the media distributor . In this manner the home gateway is a unifier of Internet access and mass media. Stated differently the home gateway is a single housing that contains the inputs and outputs to connect to both the ISP and the media content provider . The LAN is configured to communicate signals with the devices via wired or wireless connections. In a further embodiment the LAN is a hybrid local area network that is formed with both wired and wireless network segments that are bridged by the home gateway .

A traditional television may be configured to communicate over the local area network by way of a thin client . The thin client in one embodiment is configured to access content and information from other servers computers etc. on the local area network . For example the thin client may be configured to retrieve an electronic program guide EPG from the home gateway for presentation on the television . In an alternative embodiment the thin client may be embedded into a television controller board for example or may attach to the television by way of an expansion port on the television . Stated differently the thin client may be external to the television or integrated into the television . The television may also communicate with the home gateway via an audio visual cable such as but not limited to coaxial cable HDMI cable etc. in a manner similar to that of a traditional set top box.

The home gateway is configured to generate the EPG based on media content that is available from the media content provider . The EPG may include a listing of channels that are representative of different media distributors. Examples of media distributors include but are not limited to NBC ABC CBS FOX etc. Each channel may correspond to a set of content provided by a radio station a television station a music station etc. Each channel may provide content that changes over time according to a schedule. The home gateway is also configured to generate channels in the EPG that contain content available from the Internet . Examples of content available over the Internet include but are not limited to streaming audiovisual content podcasts downloads Internet radio video clips audio books etc.

As can be imagined collecting all of the various types of content to the EPG results in a very large number of channels however the home gateway is provided with a recommendation engine that is configured to identify channels and content relevant to a user. The recommendation engine is configured to communicate with a behavior analyzer to identify content that is relevant to the user. The behavior analyzer is configured to analyze content consumption by the user and develop a profile based on user input as will be described below.

The network router functions to direct network traffic from devices on the internal network to servers available across the Internet. The home gateway in one embodiment is similar in appearance to a standard set top box. In other words the home gateway may be formed as a housing having inputs for connecting to the Internet service provider and to the media content provider . The inputs may be in the form of copper cables e.g. rj45 and or rj11 fiber or coaxial e.g. rg6 . The home gateway also includes at least one tuner for tuning to specific channels provided by a media content provider where the distribution is by cable and or satellite and or terrestrial broadcast. The home gateway in one embodiment may be positioned near a television in a user s house or alternatively near a cable distribution panel. The home gateway may have dimensions in the range of for example between about 2 and 6 inches tall 2 and 14 inches wide and 2 and 14 inches deep.

In one embodiment the home gateway includes the behavior analyzer as described above. The behavior analyzer is configured to analyze a user s media consumption and to develop a user profile . The user profiles may be stored in a secure location within the home gateway . In one embodiment the secure location is a datastore . The datastore may be any computer readable storage device such as but not limited to hard disk drives flash memory devices etc. As will be discussed in greater detail below the information in the user profiles may be communicated with the recommendation engine over a secure local path . The secure local path may comprise an internal bus i.e. wire path optical path wireless connection software protocol etc. that does not communicate outside of the home . Furthermore the secure local path may be configured to encrypt communications between the behavior analyzer the datastore and the recommendation engine . In a further embodiment which will be described with reference to the secure local path may be implemented over a local area network.

In a further embodiment the behavior analyzer is configured to analyze multiple users and generate a user profile for each user. As used herein the term user refers to a person using either a network capable device on the LAN and or a person consuming media via a media player e.g. television or other media presentation device including stereos portable media players etc. The behavior analyzer is configured to determine the interests of each user by analyzing input from each user. In one example the behavior analyzer monitors input received from a remote control. In other words when a user selects a certain program the behavior analyzer records the selection.

The behavior analyzer may correlate the selection with 3party data such as Nielsen ratings. The 3party data may include information such as metadata related to a viewed program. Accordingly the behavior analyzer may populate the profile of the user with metadata of television programs watched. For example if the user tends to watch sporting events the behavior analyzer may populate the profile with metadata such as basketball baseball player names etc. Each time the user watches a program with metadata values that coincide with previously obtained metadata of a previously watched program the behavior analyzer increases a counter e.g. score associated with the metadata value as will be described in greater detail below with reference to .

The behavior analyzer is also configured to monitor network traffic while creating or updating the profile of the user. For example the behavior analyzer is configured to monitor Internet browsing habits by performing deep packet inspection. A network packet is a formatted unit of data transmitted across a network. Packets generally consist of control information and user data e.g. the payload . In an embodiment the behavior analyzer may be configured to analyze either part of the packet to determine interests of users by analyzing IP addresses domain names HTTP info etc. The behavior analyzer is configured to examine the packets of web requests to determine what type of traffic the packets relate to and to determine the origin and destination of the packets. By analyzing which web sites the user visits the behavior analyzer can identify preference information such as interests associate metadata with those interests and correspondingly update the profile of the user with the metadata. For example if the behavior analyzer identifies that a user searches for a specific term the behavior analyzer is configured to determine that the user has a strong interest in the searched for subject. In other words the behavior analyzer adds the searched for term to the user profile and assigns a score e.g. increases the counter to the term that indicates the searched for term is of greater importance than other interests gleaned from the network traffic.

To filter the web traffic for useful information the behavior analyzer may be configured with a predetermined set of parsing rules . Alternatively the behavior analyzer may be configured to receive parsing rules from a server or other network connected device. In a further embodiment the behavior analyzer is configured to retrieve parsing rules from the media content provider . As such the media content provider may determine how metadata is gleaned from a user s network traffic. The parsing rules may specify how the behavior analyzer treats specific packets. In other words the parsing rules instruct the behavior analyzer to analyze or skip a packet. One example of a rule may state if a packet is designated to an external server targeting port and the request URL is for a news website track the category of news e.g. sports politics etc. and update the profile. Another example of a rule might state if a packet is designated to a search engine track the search term and update the profile. 

In another embodiment the behavior analyzer is configured to analyze a web site to identify metadata associated with the content of the website. For example the behavior analyzer may be configured to analyze the URL of a requested website. If the requested URL contains information such as category the behavior analyzer is configured to identify the category and update the profile with metadata associated with the category. In one embodiment the behavior analyzer may give a greater score or weight to a search term than a category term for example. In a further embodiment the behavior analyzer may parse a website to identify keywords and associate the keywords with metadata which may then be added to the user profile .

Various different parsing rules may be created to analyze the internet usage of the user. Traffic other than HTTP traffic e.g. web browsing helps develop the profile of the user. For example the behavior analyzer may be configured to analyze protocols other than HTTP traffic in determining interests of the user. Stated differently traffic destined for specific ports known to be associated with an online game may be indicative of the user s interest in playing the online game. Traffic associated with email instant messaging etc. may also be analyzed. The behavior analyzer may be configured to simultaneously process a packet against the different rules and if a match is found update the profile .

Over time URL patterns may change new popular web sites are launched and new categories of content are created. Accordingly the behavior analyzer is configured to update the parsing rules by for example retrieving new rules from an external source such as a server operating within the media content provider . One example of a rule for monitoring Pinterest categories of interest is as follows 

In a further embodiment the behavior analyzer is configured to identify distinct users based upon packet inspection. The behavior analyzer may be configured to associate packet targets and or destinations with specific users. For example the behavior analyzer identifies email addresses or other types of identifying information and associates that user with a specific target destination e.g. IP address on the local area network device MAC address etc. . Subsequently the behavior analyzer associates any further packets intended for the specific target destination with the specific user and updates the profile for that user. Accordingly the behavior analyzer may generate profiles for different users of the network architecture .

The behavior analyzer is configured to communicate the interests of the users to the recommendation engine in a secure manner over for example a local bus with the unified home gateway. In an embodiment the behavior analyzer communicates the profiles to the recommendation engine over a secure local bus. One example of an individual user profile is described below with reference to . The secure communication of analysis data may be communicated to the recommendation engine via TCP IP or UDP or internal bus. If the behavior analyzer resides on a separate device from the recommendation engine the analysis data may be communicated over the local network as will be discussed in greater detail below. The analysis data may be sent from the behavior analyzer to the recommendation engine as periodic updates which may occur at any frequency ever 5 seconds every 5 days etc. . Profile data may be sent to the recommendation engine as either an update or as a complete set of information.

The recommendation engine is configured to modify the EPG based on the profiles to include and or prioritize relevant content. In one embodiment the recommendation engine prioritizes content by highlighting the content. Other examples of prioritizing content include but are not limited to grouping together relevant content automatically recording the relevant content etc. The content may include television shows movies video on demand advertisements etc. The modifications based on recommendations from the recommendation engine are targeted based on the metadata of the profile. For example if the behavior analyzer has learned that the user enjoys soccer the recommendation engine is configured to alter the EPG to include upcoming soccer matches.

The recommendation engine may also recommend that an entire channel be added or promoted to a more prominent position in the EPG . In another embodiment the recommendation engine may alter the content that is currently being displayed to display content that is more relevant. For example the recommendation engine may change the channel to a channel the user may like based on the profile . The recommendation engine is configured to correlate metadata information with channel information. In particular if the profile indicates that the user visits CNN.com frequently the recommendation engine may change the channel being displayed to CNN. In another example the recommendation engine instructs a digital video recorder DVR to automatically record content for later viewing. The above described recommendations function equally well to target advertisements at the user based on the profile .

In one embodiment the recommendation engine is configured to retrieve or otherwise acquire recommendation rules from a media content provider see . The recommendation rules identify how preference information identified by the behavior analyzer may be used to match the preference information to media content. For example the keywords metadata identified by the behavior analyzer may identify that a user is interested in New England Patriots football games. Therefore a recommendation rule may instruct the recommendation engine to modify the EPG to highlight upcoming Patriots games. In a further embodiment a second recommendation rule may instruct the recommendation engine to highlight any football game in the EPG . The recommendation rules may be updated to include further rules for example a rule that identifies other television content that contains people related to the New England Patriots organization. For example if the quarterback of the team also starred in a reality television show the recommendation rules may instruct the recommendation engine to highlight that reality television show.

In the depicted embodiment the home gateway is illustrated as having separate interfaces for the network data i.e. from the Internet and the broadcast content i.e. from the Media Content . In another embodiment the home gateway may be configured with a single combined interface for sending and receiving information to from the Internet and a media content provider. The combined interface for example comprises both a network data interface and a broadcast interface. In this example the combined interface is configured to communicate with so called triple play or quadruple play service providers. Triple and quadruple play service refers to the provisioning over a single interface of multiple services such as Internet access television services and telephone services. In this example the home gateway is configured to receive both network data traffic and broadcast content over the combined interface and then separate the combined traffic and route the combined traffic to the intended destination e.g. computer smartphone television etc. .

In one embodiment each profile contains metadata corresponding to interests of the user. The behavior analyzer identifies interests through monitoring of network traffic and or monitoring of content viewed. For simplicity only a single metadata value is depicted. The behavior analyzer may be configured to assign a weight or score to each metadata value .

In one embodiment each occurrence of a metadata value causes the behavior analyzer to increment the score or weight of the metadata value . Accordingly an interest of the user that is frequently searched or viewed has a weight greater than other metadata values . In another embodiment the behavior analyzer may assign different weight values based on the type of the occurrence of the metadata . For example a term searched in a search engine may be given a greater weight than a keyword in the middle of a web page. Stated differently the weight calculation may vary based on how the metadata was inferred and where the metadata came from. Additionally if the user frequently browses the web page e.g. three times a week with the described keyword the weight associated with the keyword will increase while the search term entered only one time may be disregarded.

The profile may be in any form including but not limited to XML JSON CSV HTML etc. Metadata values may be assigned for categories web sites explicit interests etc. One example of a profile could be as follows 

Similarly the set top box may be a standard set top box having firmware that has been modified to include the recommendation engine . The behavior analyzer and the recommendation engine may be configured to communicate in a secure manner over the local LAN or alternatively over another wired or wireless connection. Communication between the behavior analyzer and the recommendation engine may be encrypted or alternatively transmitted in plain text. The behavior analyzer and the recommendation engine of operate in a manner substantially similar to that described above with reference to . Beneficially both the network router and the set top box are located within the home and as such any information gleaned from the analysis of a user s network traffic is only communicated within the home between the behavior analyzer and the recommendation engine so that the security and privacy of the information is maintained within the home .

The method starts and the behavior analyzer develops a user profile. In one embodiment the behavior analyzer develops a user profile by monitoring the Internet traffic of the user. In a further embodiment the behavior analyzer may analyze web traffic and media consumption e.g. TV watching to create the user profile. The behavior analyzer identifies metadata values based on the Internet traffic and assigns a score to each metadata value. The metadata values may be weighted according to type or alternatively according to frequency of access e.g. how many times a webpage is visited or frequency of occurrence e.g. how many times a keyword exists in a webpage .

The behavior analyzer then communicates the profile with the recommendation engine . This communication of the profile may occur according to a predetermined schedule or alternatively the behavior analyzer may transmit the profile every time the profile is updated.

The recommendation engine identifies relevant content based on the profile. The recommendation engine may compare the metadata values of the profile with a 3party metadata database. The database may facilitate matching content to the profile based on matching content metadata and or by matching the profile to the content consumption of others who have a similar profile. The recommendation engine accordingly may identify related content based on the metadata values and weights. In one embodiment the recommendation engine identifies at least one television show for example that has a matching metadata value.

The recommendation engine then modifies the EPG based on the identified content. In one embodiment the recommendation engine modifies the EPG by adding favorite channels rearranging the channels of the EPG highlighting channels etc. In other words the recommendation engine performs an operation to draw the user s attention to the related content. In another embodiment the recommendation engine may record related content automatically and present the recorded content to the user. The method then ends.

The method starts and the behavior analyzer parses network data traffic to determine preference information. In one embodiment the behavior analyzer determines preference information by capturing keywords and or metadata according to the description above with reference to . The preference information may include categories of user interests such as but not limited to sports politics music etc.

The behavior analyzer then communicates the preference information to the recommendation engine via a secure local path e.g. bus of . Accordingly personal information about a user does not transmit over any external network and is therefore secure.

The recommendation engine may identify media content based on the preference information and modify the EPG based on the preference information. In one embodiment the recommendation engine modifies the EPG by adding favorite channels rearranging the channels of the EPG highlighting channels etc. In other words the recommendation engine performs an operation to draw the user s attention to the related content. In another embodiment the recommendation engine may record related content automatically and present the recorded content to the user. The method then ends.

The exemplary computer system includes a processing device a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a secondary memory e.g. a data storage device in the form of a drive unit which may include fixed or removable computer readable storage medium which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processing device represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processing device may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. Processing device may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. Processing device is configured to execute the instructions for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface device and other interface devices including but not limited to video capture interfaces using coaxial cable twisted pair cable or digital cables such as HDMI. The computer system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT connected to the computer system through a graphics port and graphics chipset an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

The secondary memory may include a machine readable storage medium or more specifically a computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. In one embodiment the instructions include instructions for the recommendation engine . The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processing device during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processing device also constituting machine readable storage media.

The computer readable storage medium may also be used to store the instructions persistently. While the computer readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media.

The instructions components and other features described herein can be implemented as discrete hardware components or integrated in the functionality of hardware components such as ASICS FPGAs DSPs or similar devices. In addition the instructions can be implemented as firmware or functional circuitry within hardware devices. Further the instructions can be implemented in any combination hardware devices and software components.

In the above description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present invention.

Some portions of the detailed description which follows are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as providing generating receiving parsing identifying recording accessing or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments it will be recognized that the invention is not limited to the embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

In the above description specific details of various embodiments are provided. However some embodiments may be practiced with less than all of these specific details. In other instances certain methods procedures components structures and or functions are described in no more detail than to enable the various embodiments of the invention for the sake of brevity and clarity.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been described and illustrated the invention is not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangements of parts so described and illustrated. The scope of the invention is to be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

