---

title: Selectable lethality yield inflatable grenade
abstract: A selectable yield fragmentation grenade is provided with a feature for relatively easily setting the output of the grenade to a higher or to a lower yield lethality output of fragments. An operator can selectively inflate the grenade by various provisions, and such inflation lowers the grenade's lethality yield output.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09593923&OS=09593923&RS=09593923
owner: The United States of the America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09593923
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140807
---
The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

There is a current unsatisfied need for a selectable yield lethal to less than lethal explosive fragmentation warhead and more particularly for a grenade having means for selectively assigning a fragmentation lethality output ranging from full lethality level to that of less than a lethal level. For instance there is a critical need for a single device which in the field can be easily changed quickly from a higher yielding fragment size generating device which can attack vehicles e.g. to a lesser energetic fragment generating device which can attack humans e.g. This saves deploying in the field various different kinds of grenades for all the different targets. Of even more use still would be a grenade that can be easily set in the field on a sliding scale from full lethality all the way down to low lethality or to a stunt level lethality and combinations inbetween.

A fragmentation case is provided in this invention comprising a closed stretchable material type grenade device including therein an elastomeric material matrix band close to the grenade outer surface skin with a multiplicity of preformed fragments deposited therein. Within the grenade body is a main explosive charge. A selectable yield output is achieved by expanding the grenade device with gas before detonation of such main explosive charge. Gas may be added though a valve means from a compact liquid gas storage tank incorporated into the grenade. In this less lethal mode against personnel say gas is admitted through the valve before final detonation of the main explosive charge. Enough gas causes the fragmentation case to be rapidly expanded until the elastomeric matrix band ruptures propelling fragments in a direction away from the main explosive charge. This mode of admitting gas causes less lethality of the fragments when the grenade finally explodes than if detonating the grenade in the other mode without first expanding it with gas. That is because the fragments are farther away from the main explosive charge when it explodes so there is less propulsion of the fragments than if they were in closer proximity to the main explosive charge. Another method for supplying and dibursing gas is to employ a propellant gas generator. To be noted where no gas or propellant is used the grenade remains compact and is considered much more lethal and powerful in exploding its fragments. So the lethality of the grenade may thus be selected for either high or for low lethality by the war fighter in the field e.g. by use of gas or propellant activation. Otherwise without changing the grenade it would be prepared to just deliver high lethality fragmentation.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a fragmentation grenade which can be selected by an operator to fragment with a higher or if desired a lower lethality yield output.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a fragmentation grenade which can be selectively inflated by an operator so that it will fragment with a higher or if desired a lower lethality yield output.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a fragmentation grenade which can be selectively inflated by an operator initiating propellant within the grenade so that the grenade will fragment with a lower lethality yield output.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in view of the within detailed descriptions of the invention the claims and in light of the following drawings wherein reference numerals may be reused where appropriate to indicate a correspondence between the referenced items. It should be understood that the sizes and shapes of the different components in the figures may not be in exact proportion and are shown here just for visual clarity and for purposes of explanation. It is also to be understood that the specific embodiments of the present invention that have been described herein are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principles of the present invention. It should further be understood that the geometry compositions values and dimensions of the components described herein can be modified within the scope of the invention and are not generally intended to be exclusive. Numerous other modifications can be made when implementing the invention for a particular environment without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

A fragmentation case is provided in this invention comprising a multiplicity of preformed fragments deposited into an elastomeric material matrix in a closed elastic material type grenade device. Elastometric materials might include rubber plastic metallic composites or other materials. Fragments may be of tungsten alloy steel or any other hard high density materials. The fragments may be molded casted or over molded in place in the belt and may be fixed in place in the belt by a filler material like plastic rubber composites epoxies urethanes etc. The fragments may be a variety of shapes sizes materials such as balls cubes or nearly any shape including star shaped etc as dictated by the particular application or a mixture of such shapes. A selectable yield output is achieved by expanding the grenade device. Expansion of the elastomeric fragmentation case may be accomplished by a liquid gas or by a propellant gas generator activated prior to detonating the main charge explosive which may comprise high explosives such as TNT and or HDX RDX or any commonly used high explosive compositions. In the less lethal mode before detonating a main charge explosive the fragmentation case may be rapidly expanded by disbursing liquid gas such as CO2 He H2 or the like from a relatively tiny storage cartridge included with the grenade device until the elastomeric matrix ruptures propelling fragments away from the inner main charge explosive and just before the final detonation of such inner explosive. Using light weight combustible gases such as H2 will increase non lethal stunt effect by producing additional blast and light. This mode causes less lethality than if detonating the grenade without first expanding it with gas. Alternatively detonation could be done at some longer time after adding the gas if desired. The expanded grenade device could have a diameter three times that of a non inflated grenade device. As mentioned a multiplicity of preformed fragments are deposited into an elastomeric material matrix. The fragmentation case has the capability of sustaining predetermined dilation to provide prescribed separation gap between the main explosive and the fragments if desired. The shape of the warhead or grenade can be spherical cylindrical or complex however prescribing the extent of the air or gas filled gap between the explosive and the fragmentation case will determine the amount of momentum transferred from the explosive detonation products to that of the fragments. Therefore such gap size also then dictates resulting fragment velocities and thus grenade lethality. As was mentioned in a full lethality mode there is no dilation applied the fragmentation case is in close contact with the main explosive yielding maximum fragment velocities. In a less lethal mode before detonating the explosive the fragmentation case is expanded rapidly as desired until the elastomeric matrix raptures propelling fragments away from the explosive. Then approximately the entire momentum of the explosive detonation products will be deposited into the air blast yielding a little or no lethality in the fragments. In a partial yield mode the grenade lethality yield may be controlled by the extent of the gap between the explosive and the partially dilated fragmentation case. By way of example in a grenade top cross sectional view has an outer elastomeric fragmentation case liner which also encloses an inner main explosive charge . The area in between and is normally not filled with added gas. The grenade also has means to detonate said main explosive charge along line . In a cross sectional view normal to the surface of the fragmentation case fragments are embedded in an elastomeric matrix . For a low fragment yield operation valve may be used to permit gas from connected unit gas source to be added to the grenade inside the case liner . A suitable gas should probably be inert for safety concerns against unwanted burning and not of a more toxic or poisonous variety if possible. Only after inflating the grenade the main explosive charge would then be initiated. Cross sectional view illustrates an inflated grenade including gas in inflated area prior to detonation of main explosive charge whereas cross sectional view illustrates a non inflated grenade with no gas added in area prior to detonation of main explosive charge . According to an alternative method see dilation of the fragmentation case may be accomplished by a thin layer of propellant deposited between the explosive and the case initiated at a predetermined time before detonating the main explosive charge. In such alternate method for inflating an elastomeric pocket band may be included to contain a small supply of propellant. And the grenade includes means to ignite said propellant along line which means may include a fuze. A circuit switching means not completely detailed may be included to control the timing of detonation of and . Such propellant would then be activated first and cause inflating of the grenade by the releasing gas created by the propellant burn before detonating the main explosive charge . In both methods of inflating the grenade prior to detonation a selectable partial yield output may be accomplished if desired determined by the time delay between activating the case expansion and when detonating the main explosive charge.

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

