---

title: Implants for altering wear patterns of articular surfaces
abstract: Methods and devices for correcting wear pattern defects in joints. The methods and devices described herein allow for the restoration of correcting abnormal biomechanical loading conditions in a joint brought on by wear pattern defects, and also can, in embodiments, permit correction of proper kinematic movement.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09180015&OS=09180015&RS=09180015
owner: ConforMIS, Inc.
number: 09180015
owner_city: Bedford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140324
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 398 598 filed Mar. 5 2009 and entitled Implants for Altering Wear Patterns of Articular Surfaces which in turn claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 61 034 035 filed Mar. 5 2008 and entitled Wear Pattern Optimized Articular Implants. Each of the above described applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The embodiments described herein relate to orthopedic methods systems and devices. In particular new methods systems and devices for articular resurfacing in joints including the knee are provided.

There are various types of cartilage e.g. hyaline elastic and fibrocartilage. Hyaline cartilage is found at the articular surfaces of bones e.g. in the joints and is responsible for providing the smooth gliding motion characteristic of moveable joints. Articular cartilage is firmly attached to the underlying bones and measures typically less than 5 mm in thickness in human joints with considerable variation depending on the joint and the site within the joint.

Adult cartilage has a limited ability of repair thus damage to cartilage produced by disease such as rheumatoid and or osteoarthritis or trauma can lead to serious physical deformity and debilitation. Furthermore as human articular cartilage ages its tensile properties change and the cartilage tends to wear away. The superficial zone of the knee articular cartilage exhibits an increase in tensile strength up to the third decade of life after which it decreases markedly with age as detectable damage to type II collagen occurs at the articular surface. The deep zone cartilage also exhibits a progressive decrease in tensile strength with increasing age although collagen content does not appear to decrease. These observations indicate that there are changes in mechanical and hence structural organization of cartilage with aging that if sufficiently developed can predispose cartilage to traumatic damage.

In osteoarthritis human joints such as the knee hip ankle foot joints shoulder elbow wrist hand joints and spinal joints tend to wear away the articular cartilage. The wear is frequently not uniform but localized to a defined region within a joint. For example in a knee joint the wear can be on a medial or lateral femoral condyle a medial or lateral tibial plateau a medial or lateral trochlea a medial facet lateral facet or median ridge of the patella. In a hip joint the wear can be on an acetabulum or a femoral head or both.

Generally wear can be limited to one articular surface or it can affect multiple articular surfaces. Wear can occur in one or more subregions on the same articular surface or multiple articular surfaces.

In a medial femoral condyle or medial tibial plateau wear can occur in an anterior central or posterior portion of the articular surface. Wear can also occur in a medial or lateral portion of an articular surface. In a lateral femoral condyle or lateral tibial plateau wear can occur in an anterior central or posterior portion of the articular surface. Wear can also occur in a medial or lateral portion of an articular surface. In a femoral head or acetabulum wear can occur in an anterior posterior medial or lateral superior or inferior location.

In short any location of wear is possible and any combination of wear patterns on the same articular surface and opposing articular surfaces is possible.

Wear starts typically in the articular cartilage but it can then extend into the subchondral bone and marrow cavity. Wear can be accompanied by cartilage loss subchondral sclerosis subchondral cyst formation osteophyte formation bone marrow edema.

Wear is frequently the result of an abnormal biomechanical loading condition in a joint. While modern arthroplasty surgery attempts to correct such abnormal biomechanical loading conditions in a joint some residual biomechanical loading abnormality or new biomechanical loading abnormality is frequently present after partial or total joint replacement surgery.

Abnormal biomechanical loading of joint implants is a frequent cause for implant failure since current implants cannot account for the increased loads and stresses resulting from such abnormal loading.

Usually severe damage or cartilage loss is treated by replacement of the joint with a suitable prosthetic material most frequently metal alloys. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 383 228 6 203 576 and 6 126 690. As can be appreciated joint arthroplasties are highly invasive and require surgical resection of the entire or a majority of the articular surface of one or more bones involved in the repair. Typically with these procedures the marrow space is fairly extensively reamed in order to fit the stem of the prosthesis within the bone. Reaming results in a loss of the patient s bone stock and over time subsequent osteolysis will frequently lead to loosening of the prosthesis. Further the area where the implant and the bone mate degrades over time requiring the prosthesis to eventually be replaced. Since the patient s bone stock is limited the number of possible replacement surgeries is also limited for joint arthroplasty. In short over the course of 15 to 20 years and in some cases even shorter time periods the patient can run out of therapeutic options ultimately resulting in a painful nonfunctional joint.

The embodiments described herein are directed to providing methods and devices for correcting wear pattern defects in joints. They provide for improved and in some embodiments optimized or ideal implant systems to correct or manage abnormal wear patterns. Some of the methods and devices described herein allow for the correction of abnormal biomechanical loading conditions in a joint brought on by wear pattern defects and also can in embodiments permit correction of proper kinematic movement. Abnormal biomechanical loading of conventional joint implants is a frequent cause for implant failure since current implant designs are unable to account for the increased loads and stresses resulting from such abnormal loading. Alternatively the methods and devices described herein allow for the accommodation of abnormal biomechanical loading conditions in the shape of the implant system thus reducing the forces on the implant that can lead to implant failure.

One embodiment is a method for designing an orthopedic device that alters a wear pattern on an articular surface of a joint. The method may include receiving image data associated with the joint e.g. via a computer network determining a wear pattern of an articular surface at least in part from the image data and designing an orthopedic device based at least in part on the image data. The orthopedic device can be designed to alter the wear pattern of the articular surface to a revised wear pattern.

Other embodiments may include one or more of the following. The alteration may be a change to or an improvement over the existing wear pattern or the wear pattern can be optimized to provide an ideal wear pattern. The image data may be derived from a technique selected from the group consisting of arthroscopy arthrotomic examination gait analysis and imaging analysis or a combination thereof.

The step of designing can include for example altering the wear pattern at least in part by adjusting the location of the wear pattern on the articular surface altering the wear pattern at least in part by distributing the load that will be placed on the articular surface or altering the wear pattern at least in part by reducing point loading on the articular surface.

The method can further include determining a second wear pattern of a second articular surface of the joint from the image data. The orthopedic device can be designed based at least in part on the image data associated with the second articular surface and the orthopedic device can be designed to alter the second wear pattern of the second articular surface to a second revised wear pattern. The orthopedic device can be for example a bicompartmental resurfacing device for a knee.

A second wear pattern of a second articular surface of the joint can be determined from the image data. A second orthopedic device can be based at least in part on the image data associated with the second articular surface and the second orthopedic device can be designed to alter the second wear pattern of the second articular surface to a second revised wear pattern. For example the first orthopedic device can be a tibial tray for a knee and the second orthopedic device can be a second tibial tray for another compartment of the knee.

A second orthopedic device can be designed based at least in part on the image data and it can be designed to alter the wear pattern of the articular surface to the revised wear pattern. For example the first orthopedic device can be a tibial tray for a knee joint and the second orthopedic device can be a unicompartmental femoral resurfacing device for the knee joint. The two implants can be designed to be complimentary and thereby affect the alteration in the wear pattern as designed.

The orthopedic device can be many different types of devices such as a replacement hip joint or a knee replacement device including a femoral component and a tibial component. The orthopedic device can be designed using a library of design elements.

The orthopedic device can be designed to include at least one surface that conforms to an existing surface of the joint see e.g. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 997 407 filed Nov. 24 2004 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety . The orthopedic device can be designed to include at least one surface that is derived from an existing surface of the joint. For example the derived surface can exclude a defect of the existing surface it can approximate an ideal surface of the joint and it can approximate a healthy surface of the joint. Similarly the orthopedic device can be designed to include at least one curve derived from an existing surface of the joint. For example the curve can exclude a defect of the existing joint it can approximate an ideal curve of the joint and it can approximate a healthy surface of the joint. The orthopedic device also can be designed to include at least one dimension that is derived from an existing dimension of the joint. For example the derived dimension can exclude a defect of the existing joint it can approximate an ideal dimension of the joint and it can approximate a dimension associated with a healthy joint.

The orthopedic device can be designed to be placed at least in part on cartilage associated with the joint and it can be designed to be placed at least in part on subchondral bone associated with the joint. It can also be designed to be placed on other types of tissue or combinations of tissue.

The method can also include the production of the orthopedic device. For example the orthopedic device can be produced using traditional methods such as casting or newer technologies such as direct digital manufacturing. As an alternate example the orthopedic device can be produced by tailoring a precursor orthopedic device which may be e.g. selected from a library of orthopedic devices. Similarly the orthopedic device can be produced by altering a standard orthopedic device which may be e.g. selected from an inventory of orthopedic devices

Another embodiment is a method for preparing an implant for correcting an articular surface wear pattern that includes obtaining an image of an articular surface analyzing the image for the presence or absence of wear pattern indicia determining a wear pattern from the wear pattern indicia and providing an implant having a characteristic topography for correcting the wear pattern. The implant can have an interior surface and an outer surface. The interior surface may be a mirror image of the articular surface.

An implant for correcting an articular surface wear pattern comprising an implant body having a characteristic topography an interior surface and an outer surface where the implant body topography is derived from a wear pattern analysis of the articular surface. The implant can include an interior surface is a mirror image of the articular surface.

Another embodiment is a method of joint arthroplasty that includes obtaining an image of a surface of a joint the surface of the joint including a wear pattern deriving a shape of the joint surface based at least in part on the image and providing an implant having a surface based on the surface of the joint. The implant can be configured to alter the wear pattern of the joint.

Other embodiments may include one or more of the following. Obtaining the image can include an imaging technique selected from the group consisting of x ray imaging and processing fluoroscopy digital tomosynthesis ultrasound optical coherence conventional cone beam or spiral computed tomography CT single photon emission tomography SPECT bone scan positron emission tomography PET magnetic resonance imaging MRI thermal imaging and optical imaging or a combination thereof. The joint can be any joint with an articular surface for example a knee a shoulder a hip a vertebrae an elbow an ankle a foot a toe a hand a wrist and a finger. The wear pattern can be based at least in part on one of a presence absence location distribution depth area or dimensions of cartilage loss presence absence location distribution depth area or dimensions of subchondral cysts presence absence location distribution depth area or dimensions of subchondral sclerosis presence absence location distribution volume area depth or dimensions of a subchondral bone plate abnormality presence absence location distribution or dimensions of a subchondral bone deformity presence absence or severity of a varus or valgus deformity presence absence or severity of recurvatum or antecurvatum and presence absence location distribution volume depth or dimensions of bone marrow edema. The surface of the implant can be substantially at least one of rigid non pliable non flexible and non resilient and can be made of various suitable materials or combinations of materials e.g. polymer a cross linked polymer a ceramic a metal an alloy and a ceramic metal composite.

In another embodiment a wear pattern is determined pre operatively or intraoperatively. Wear patterns may be assessed by e.g. arthroscopy arthrotomy imaging tests such as x ray imaging fluoroscopy digital tomosynthesis cone beam conventional and spiral CT bone scan SPECT scan PET MRI thermal imaging optical imaging and any other current and future technique for detecting articular wear optical coherence tomography gait analysis and techniques merging information from one or more of these tests. Many modifications and derivatives of these imaging tests can be used. For example with MRI images can be visually interpreted for assessing cartilage loss or bone deformity. Alternatively computer methods including maps of cartilage thickness can be utilized for this purpose. Alternatively a scan reflecting biomechanical composition of the articular cartilage can be performed. These include but are not limited to dGEMRIC T1Rho and T2 scans.

Different scanning methods within the same modalities and or different modalities can be combined in order to determine one or more wear patterns.

In one embodiment a wear pattern can be determined and an implant can be designed or selected that is adapted or optimized for a patient s wear pattern. Such adaptations or optimizations can include in the area of the wear pattern or areas adjacent to a wear pattern decrease in material thickness increase in material thickness change in material composition change in cross linking properties e.g. via local exposure to Gamma radiation or other cross linking reagents change in implant shape e.g. change in convexity or concavity of one or more surface in one or more dimensions enhanced matching of shape between two mating articular surfaces enhanced constraint decreased matching of shape between two mating articular surfaces decreased constraint .

In another embodiment a wear pattern can be measured in a patient and an implant with a matching wear pattern design can be selected from a library of pre manufactured implants.

In yet another embodiment a wear pattern specific implant shape or geometry is achieved using a number of manufacturing techniques including but not limited to polishing milling machining casting rapid protocasting laser sintering laser melting and electro abrasion.

In one embodiment the wear pattern adapted articular surface is formed de novo. In another embodiment the wear pattern adapted articular surface of the implant is achieved by processing an implant with a standard shape of the articular surface a blank and adapting the shape for a patients wear pattern e.g. using machining or electroabrasion.

In another embodiment methods for preparing an implant for correcting or accommodating an articular surface wear pattern are disclosed wherein an image of an articular surface is obtained the image is analyzed for the presence or absence of wear pattern indicia a wear pattern is determined from the wear pattern indicia and an implant with an inferior surface and a superior surface is provided having a characteristic topography for correcting or accommodating the wear pattern.

In yet another embodiment an implant is disclosed for correcting or accommodating an articular surface wear pattern including an implant body having a characteristic topography an inferior surface and a superior surface where the implant body topography is derived from a wear pattern analysis of the articular surface.

In another embodiment a method of joint arthroplasty includes obtaining an image of a surface of a joint the surface of the joint including a wear pattern. A shape of the joint surface is derived based at least in part on the image. An implant is provided having a surface that either conforms with or duplicates the surface of the joint.

In related embodiments obtaining the image may include x ray imaging and processing fluoroscopy digital tomosynthesis ultrasound optical coherence conventional cone beam or spiral computed tomography CT single photon emission tomography SPECT bone scan positron emission tomography PET magnetic resonance imaging MRI thermal imaging or optical imaging or a combination thereof. The joint may be a knee shoulder hip vertebrae elbow ankle foot toe hand wrist or finger. The wear pattern may be determined based at least in part on a presence absence location distribution depth area or dimensions of cartilage loss presence absence location distribution depth area or dimensions of subchondral cysts presence absence location distribution depth area or dimensions of subchondral sclerosis presence absence location distribution volume area depth or dimensions of a subchondral bone plate abnormality presence absence location distribution or dimensions of a subchondral bone deformity presence absence or severity of a varus or valgus deformity presence absence or severity of recurvatum or antecurvatum and or presence absence location distribution volume depth or dimensions of bone marrow edema. The surface of the implant may be substantially rigid non pliable non flexible and or non resilient. The surface of the implant may include a polymer a cross linked polymer a ceramic a metal an alloy and or a ceramic metal composite. Providing the surface of the implant may include rapid prototyping laser cutting laser sintering electron beam melting casting and or milling. The method may further include positioning the implant adjacent an implantation site. The surface of the implant may be shaped prior to positioning the implant adjacent the implantation site.

In accordance with another embodiment an implant for joint arthroplasty includes an implant surface that either conforms to or duplicates a joint surface the joint surface including a wear pattern.

In related embodiments the implant surface may be substantially rigid non flexible and or non pliable. The surface of the implant may be a polymer a cross linked polymer a ceramic a metal an alloy and or a ceramic metal composite. The implant surface may reflect a surface of the joint obtained from an image.

Novel devices and methods for correcting or accommodating wear patterns in joint surfaces e.g. cartilage meniscus and or bone are thus described. Advantageously the implant has an anatomic or near anatomic fit with the surrounding structures and tissues thus minimizing bone cutting. In embodiments devices provided herein also improve the anatomic functionality of the repaired joint by restoring the natural knee joint anatomy and kinematics. This in turn leads to an improved functional result for the repaired joint.

The devices and methods described herein may replace all or a portion e.g. diseased area and or area slightly larger than the diseased area of the articular surface and achieve an anatomic or near anatomic fit with the surrounding structures and tissues. Where the devices and or methods include an element associated with the underlying articular bone the bone associated element can achieve a near anatomic alignment with the bone. The articular surface may include the superior bone surface of bone ends. For example the articular surfaces of the knee would include the femoral condyles and the tibial plateau. Healthy articular surfaces would generally be covered by cartilage but in diseased or worn joints the articular surface may include areas of exposed bone.

Some embodiments provide methods and devices for repairing joints including bone end interfaces of the knee hip ankle foot shoulder elbow wrist hand and spine particularly for repairing articular surfaces and for facilitating integration of an articular surface repair implant into a subject. The repair may be without limitation a cartilage repair resurfacing implant a partial joint implant and or a total joint implant on a single joint surface or multiple joint surfaces. Among other things the techniques described herein allow for the customization of the implant to suit a particular subject particularly in terms of correcting or accommodating a wear pattern on the articular size cartilage thickness and or curvature. In selected embodiments the interior surface of the implant is a mirror image of the articular surface i.e. it is an exact or near anatomic fit further enhancing the success of repair is enhanced. The implant is designed to incorporate a wear pattern analysis based on e.g. electronic images of the articular surface. Some embodiments provide e.g. minimally invasive methods for partial joint replacement requiring only minimal or in some instances no loss in bone stock. Additionally unlike with current techniques the methods described herein will help to restore the integrity of the articular surface by achieving an exact or near anatomic match between the implant and the surrounding or adjacent cartilage and or subchondral bone.

In one embodiment a wear pattern is determined pre operatively or intraoperatively. Wear patterns may be assessed by e.g. arthroscopy arthrotomy imaging tests such as x ray imaging fluoroscopy digital tomosynthesis cone beam conventional and spiral CT bone scan SPECT scan PET MRI thermal imaging optical imaging and any other current and future technique for detecting articular wear optical coherence tomography gait analysis and techniques merging information from one or more of these tests.

Many modifications and derivatives of these imaging tests can be used. For example with MRI images can be visually interpreted for assessing cartilage loss or bone deformity. Alternatively computer methods including maps of cartilage thickness can be utilized for this purpose. Alternatively a scan reflecting biomechanical composition of the articular cartilage can be performed. These include but are not limited to dGEMRIC T1Rho and T2 scans.

Different scanning methods within the same modalities and or different modalities can be combined in order to determine one or more wear patterns.

Wear patterns may include individual or continuous areas of surface wear disease or degradation. In some instances the wear pattern may be likened to a map of the articular surface wherein wear pattern indicia are highlighted marked or otherwise denoted to indicate the wear pattern. Wear pattern indicia may include the presence absence location distribution depth area or dimensions of cartilage loss presence absence location distribution depth area or dimensions of subchondral cysts presence absence location distribution depth area or dimensions of subchondral sclerosis presence e.g. thickening or thinning absence location distribution volume area depth or dimensions of a subchondral bone plate abnormality presence absence location distribution or dimensions of a subchondral bone deformity presence absence or severity of a varus or valgus deformity presence absence or severity of another articular axis deformity e.g. recurvatum antecurvatum or presence absence location distribution volume depth or dimensions of bone marrow edema.

A wear pattern can be detected for example by determining presence or absence of cartilage loss location of cartilage loss distribution of cartilage loss depth of cartilage loss area of cartilage loss width or dimensions of cartilage loss presence or absence of subchondral cysts location of subchondral cysts distribution of subchondral cysts volume of subchondral cysts area of subchondral cysts presence or absence of subchondral sclerosis location of subchondral sclerosis distribution of subchondral sclerosis volume of subchondral sclerosis area of subchondral sclerosis depth or width or dimensions of subchondral sclerosis presence or absence of abnormality of subchondral bone plate e.g. thickening or thinning location of abnormality of subchondral bone plate distribution of abnormality of subchondral bone plate volume of abnormality of subchondral bone plate area of abnormality of subchondral bone plate depth of abnormality of subchondral bone plate width or dimensions of abnormality of subchondral bone plate presence or absence of deformity of subchondral bone location of deformity of subchondral bone distribution of deformity of subchondral bone area of deformity of subchondral bone dimensions of deformity of subchondral bone presence of absence of varus or valgus deformity severity of varus or valgus deformity presence or absence of other articular axis deformity e.g. recurvatum antecurvatum severity of other articular axis deformity e.g. recurvatum antecurvatum presence or absence of bone marrow edema location of bone marrow edema distribution of bone marrow edema volume of bone marrow edema area of bone marrow edema depth of bone marrow edema or dimensions of bone marrow edema.

One or more of these parameters can be measured preoperatively or intraoperatively. Combinations of parameters can be measured. Linear or non linear weightings can be applied. Mathematical and statistical modeling can be used to derive a wear pattern using one or more of these parameters or combinations of parameters.

Other parameters can be measured such as presence and severity of ligament tears muscle strength body mass index anthropometric parameters and the like.

Other parameters can include estimated or measured location of ligaments e.g. medial or lateral collateral ligaments ACL and PCL ligamentum capitis femoris transverse ligament rotator cuff spinous ligaments and the like.

These data can be used to improve the localization of a wear pattern. They can also be used to derive risk models of future implant wear.

The resultant information can be used to change or adapt and implant design or to derive an entirely new implant design adapted to a patient s wear pattern.

In one embodiment a wear pattern can be determined and an implant can be designed or selected that is adapted or optimized for a patient s wear pattern. Such adaptations or optimizations can include in the area of the wear pattern or areas adjacent to a wear pattern decrease in material thickness increase in material thickness change in material composition change in cross linking properties e.g. via local exposure to Gamma radiation or other cross linking reagents change in implant shape e.g. change in convexity or concavity of one or more surface in one or more dimensions enhanced matching of shape between two mating articular surfaces enhanced constraint decreased matching of shape between two mating articular surfaces decreased constraint . The implant may be strengthened in without limitation in the area of the wear pattern or areas adjacent to the wear pattern. The implant may be adapted in shape to more evenly distribute load for example to areas of less wear.

Changes in material composition can include the use of different materials e.g. different metals or plastics or ceramics or select use of one or more of these materials in an area of wear pattern or adjacent to an area of wear pattern. Alternatively select change in material properties of the same material can be used. For example when a polymer material is used select cross linking of polymers can be performed in an area of or adjacent to a wear pattern. Such select cross linking can for example be achieved with a focused radiation beam that is focused on the area of wear pattern or adjacent to wear pattern.

Gradients in material composition and properties extending from an area of wear pattern to areas outside the wear pattern are possible.

Advantages of the devices and methods disclosed herein include i customization of joint repair thereby enhancing the efficacy and comfort level for the patient following the repair procedure ii in some embodiments eliminating the need for a surgeon to measure the defect to be repaired intraoperatively iii eliminating the need for a surgeon to shape the material during the implantation procedure iv providing methods of evaluating curvature or shape of the repair material based on bone or tissue images or based on intraoperative probing techniques v providing methods of repairing joints with only minimal or in some instances no loss in bone stock vi improving postoperative joint congruity vii improving the postoperative patient recovery in some embodiments viii improving postoperative function such as range of motion and joint kinematics and ix improving loading conditions on the implant and thus reducing risk of implant failure.

The methods and compositions described herein can be used to treat defects resulting from disease of the cartilage e.g. osteoarthritis bone damage cartilage damage trauma and or degeneration due to overuse or age. The size volume and shape of the area of interest may include only the region of cartilage that has the defect but preferably includes contiguous parts of the cartilage surrounding the cartilage defect.

Size curvature and or thickness measurements can be obtained using any suitable technique. For example one dimensional two dimensional and or three dimensional measurements can be obtained using suitable mechanical means laser devices electromagnetic or optical tracking systems molds materials applied to the articular surface that harden and memorize the surface contour and or one or more imaging techniques known in the art. Measurements can be obtained non invasively and or intraoperatively e.g. using a probe or other surgical device . As will be appreciated the thickness of the repair device can vary at any given point depending upon patient s anatomy and or the depth of the damage to the cartilage and or bone to be corrected at any particular location on an articular surface.

As will be appreciated the practitioner can proceed directly from the step of generating a model representation of the target joint to the step of selecting a suitable joint replacement implant as shown by the arrow . Additionally following selection of suitable joint replacement implant the steps of obtaining measurement of target joint generating model representation of target joint and generating projected model can be repeated in series or parallel as shown by the flow .

As will be appreciated the practitioner can proceed directly from the step of generating a model representation of the target joint to the step of designing a suitable joint replacement implant as shown by the arrow . Similar to the flow shown above following the design of a suitable joint replacement implant the steps of obtaining measurement of target joint generating model representation of target joint and generating projected model can be repeated in series or parallel as shown by the flow .

Once the surfaces have been measured the user either selects the best fitting implant contained in a library of implants or generates a patient specific implant . These steps can be repeated as desired or necessary to achieve the best fitting implant for a patient. As will be appreciated the process of selecting or designing an implant can be tested against the information contained in the MRI or x ray of the patient to ensure that the surfaces of the device achieve a good fit relative to the patient s joint surface. Testing can be accomplished by for example superimposing the implant image over the image for the patient s joint. Once it has been determined that a suitable implant has been selected or designed the implant site can be prepared for example by removing cartilage or bone from the joint surface or the implant can be placed into the joint .

The joint implant selected or designed achieves anatomic or near anatomic fit with the existing surface of the joint while presenting a mating surface for the opposing joint surface that replicates the natural joint anatomy. In this instance both the existing surface of the joint can be assessed as well as the desired resulting surface of the joint. This technique is particularly useful for implants that are not anchored into the bone.

As will be appreciated a physician or other person can obtain a measurement of a target joint and then either design or select a suitable joint replacement implant.

A wide variety of materials find use in the practice including but not limited to plastics metals crystal free metals ceramics biological materials e.g. collagen or other extracellular matrix materials hydroxyapatite cells e.g. stem cells chondrocyte cells or the like or combinations thereof. Based on the information e.g. measurements obtained regarding the defect and the articular surface and or the subchondral bone a repair material can be formed or selected. Further using one or more of these techniques described herein a cartilage replacement or regenerating material having a curvature that will fit into a particular cartilage defect will follow the contour and shape of the articular surface and will match the thickness of the surrounding cartilage. The repair material can include any combination of materials and typically includes at least one non pliable material for example materials that are not easily bent or changed.

Currently joint repair systems often employ metal and or polymeric materials including for example prostheses which are anchored into the underlying bone e.g. a femur in the case of a knee prosthesis . See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 203 576 and 6 322 588 and references cited therein. A wide variety of metals are useful in the practice and can be selected based on any criteria. For example material selection can be based on resiliency to impart a desired degree of rigidity. Non limiting examples of suitable metals include silver gold platinum palladium iridium copper tin lead antimony bismuth zinc titanium cobalt stainless steel nickel iron alloys cobalt alloys such as Elgiloy a cobalt chromium nickel alloy and MP35N a nickel cobalt chromium molybdenum alloy and Nitinol a nickel titanium alloy aluminum manganese iron tantalum crystal free metals such as Liquidmetal alloys available from LiquidMetal Technologies www.liquidmetal.com other metals that can slowly form polyvalent metal ions for example to inhibit calcification of implanted substrates in contact with a patient s bodily fluids or tissues and combinations thereof.

Suitable synthetic polymers include polyamides e.g. nylon polyesters polystyrenes polyacrylates vinyl polymers e.g. polyethylene polytetrafluoroethylene polypropylene and polyvinyl chloride polycarbonates polyurethanes poly dimethyl siloxanes cellulose acetates polymethyl methacrylates polyether ether ketones ethylene vinyl acetates polysulfones nitrocelluloses similar copolymers and mixtures thereof. Bioresorbable synthetic polymers can also be used such as dextran hydroxyethyl starch derivatives of gelatin polyvinylpyrrolidone polyvinyl alcohol poly N 2 hydroxypropyl methacrylamide poly hydroxy acids poly epsilon caprolactone polylactic acid polyglycolic acid poly dimethyl glycolic acid poly hydroxy butyrate and similar copolymers can also be used.

Other appropriate materials include polyetheretherketone PEEK e.g. PEEK 450G which is an unfilled PEEK approved for medical implantation available from Victrex Lancashire Great Britain www.matweb.com Boedeker www.boedeker.com or Gharda Panoli India www.ghardapolymers.com . The selected material may also be filled. For example other grades of PEEK are also available such as 30 glass filled or 30 carbon filled provided such materials are cleared for use in implantable devices by the FDA or other regulatory bodies. Glass filled PEEK reduces the expansion rate and increases the flexural modulus of PEEK relative to that portion which is unfilled. The resulting product is known to be ideal for improved strength stiffness or stability. Carbon filled PEEK is known to enhance the compressive strength and stiffness of PEEK and lower its expansion rate. Carbon filled PEEK offers wear resistance and load carrying capability.

Other suitable biocompatible thermoplastic or thermoplastic polycondensate materials that resist fatigue have good memory are flexible and or deflectable have very low moisture absorption and good wear and or abrasion resistance can be used. The implant can also be comprised of other polyketones e.g. polyetherketoneketone PEKK polyetherketone PEK polyetherketoneetherketoneketone PEKEKK polyetheretherketoneketone PEEKK and polyaryletheretherketones. Other suitable polymers include those described in WO 02 02158 A1 WO 02 00275 A1 and WO 02 00270 A1.

Polymers can be prepared by a variety of approaches including conventional polymer processing methods. Exemplary approaches include injection molding which is suitable for the production of polymer components with significant structural features and rapid prototyping such as reaction injection molding and stereo lithography. The substrate can be textured or made porous by either physical abrasion or chemical alteration to facilitate incorporation of the metal coating. Other suitable processes include extrusion injection compression molding and or machining techniques. Typically the polymer is chosen for its physical and mechanical properties and is suitable for carrying and spreading the physical load between the joint surfaces.

More than one metal and or polymer can be used in combination with each other. For example one or more metal containing substrates can be coated with polymers in one or more regions or alternatively one or more polymer containing substrate can be coated in one or more regions with one or more metals.

The system or prosthesis can be porous or porous coated. The porous surface components can be made of various materials including metals ceramics and polymers. These surface components can in turn be secured by various means to a multitude of structural cores formed of various metals. Suitable porous coatings include metal ceramic polymeric e.g. biologically neutral elastomers such as silicone rubber polyethylene terephthalate and or combinations thereof or combinations thereof. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 605 123 3 808 606 3 843 975 3 314 420 3 987 499 and German Offenlegungsschrift 2 306 552. There can be more than one coating layer and the layers can have the same or different porosities. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 3 938 198.

The coating can be applied by surrounding a core with powdered polymer and heating until cured to form a coating with an internal network of interconnected pores. The tortuosity of the pores e.g. a measure of length to diameter of the paths through the pores can be important in evaluating the probable success of such a coating in use on a prosthetic device. See also U.S. Pat. No. 4 213 816. The porous coating can be applied in the form of a powder and the article as a whole subjected to an elevated temperature that bonds the powder to the substrate. Selection of suitable polymers and or powder coatings can be determined in view of the teachings and references cited herein for example based on the melt index of each.

Depending on a wear pattern analysis it may be advantageous to utilize differing materials or material composition e.g. varying degrees of polymeric cross linking or of metal alloy hardness in the implant body to address and correct the wear pattern. Variations in material composition throughout the implant body can include the use of different materials e.g. different metals plastics or ceramics or the selection of one or more of these materials in or adjacent to the region of the implant corresponding to a wear pattern. As noted above select changes in material properties of the same material can be used or when a polymeric material is employed selective cross linking can be performed in an area of or adjacent to a wear pattern to selectively vary the physical properties of the polymer. Selective cross linking can be achieved for example with a radiation beam focused on or adjacent to the area of the device corresponding to the wear pattern or by use of selective chemical cross linking.

A wear pattern analysis may include reviewing or analyzing a bone surface to determine the presence of wear pattern indicia. The review or analysis may be determined preoperatively e.g. via imaging analysis or intraoperatively e.g. via arthroscopy arthrotomic examination or gait analysis. Linear or non linear weightings can be applied and mathematical and statistical modeling can be used to derive a wear pattern from the wear pattern indicia. Other parameters can be considered in determining a wear pattern including the presence and severity of ligament tears muscle strength body mass index anthropometric parameters and the estimated or measured location of ligaments e.g. medial or lateral collateral ligaments ACL and PCL ligamentum capitis femoris transverse ligaments rotator cuff and spinous ligaments.

Further considerations in designing the implant body to address and correct the wear pattern include decreasing or increasing material thickness in response to the wear pattern e.g. part of designing a characteristic topography change in implant shape e.g. change in convexity or concavity of one or more surfaces in one or more dimensions enhanced matching of shape between two mating articular surfaces enhanced constraint or decreased matching of shape between two mating articular surfaces decreased constraint . A characteristic topography may include the relief features of the superior surface but also variations in thickness of the device from region to region elevation in topographic terms. In an embodiment an implant can be designed or selected that is adapted or optimized for a patient s wear pattern or areas adjacent to a wear pattern such adaptations or optimizations resulting in an implant having a characteristic topography.

Repair materials can also include one or more biological material either alone or in combination with non biological materials. For example any base material can be designed or shaped and suitable cartilage replacement or regenerating material s such as fetal cartilage cells can be applied to be the base. The cells can be then be grown in conjunction with the base until the thickness and or curvature of the cartilage surrounding the cartilage defect has been reached. Conditions for growing cells e.g. chondrocytes on various substrates in culture ex vivo and in vivo are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 478 739 5 842 477 6 283 980 and 6 365 405. Non limiting examples of suitable substrates include plastic tissue scaffold a bone replacement material e.g. a hydroxyapatite a bioresorbable material or any other material suitable for growing a cartilage replacement or regenerating material on it.

Biological polymers can be naturally occurring or produced in vitro e.g. via fermentation. Suitable biological polymers include collagen elastin silk keratin gelatin polyamino acids cat gut sutures polysaccharides e.g. cellulose and starch and mixtures thereof. Biological polymers can be bioresorbable. Biological materials can be autografts from the same subject allografts from another individual of the same species and or xenografts from another species . See also WO 02 22014 and WO 97 27885. In certain embodiments autologous materials are preferred as they can carry a reduced risk of immunological complications to the host including re absorption of the materials inflammation and or scarring of the tissues surrounding the implant site.

Any biological repair material can be sterilized to inactivate biological contaminants such as bacteria viruses yeasts molds mycoplasmas and parasites. Sterilization can be performed using any suitable technique such as radiation e.g. gamma radiation.

Any of the biological materials described herein can be harvested with use of a robotic device. The robotic device can use information from an electronic image for tissue harvesting.

Using information on thickness and curvature of the cartilage a physical model of the surfaces of the articular cartilage and of the underlying bone can be created. This physical model can be representative of a limited area within the joint or it can encompass the entire joint. This model can also take into consideration the presence or absence of a meniscus as well as the presence or absence of some or all of the cartilage. For example in the knee joint the physical model can encompass only the medial or lateral femoral condyle both femoral condyles and the notch region the medial tibial plateau the lateral tibial plateau the entire tibial plateau the medial patella the lateral patella the entire patella or the entire joint. The location of a diseased area of cartilage can be determined for example using a 3D coordinate system or a 3D Euclidian distance as described in WO 02 22014.

In this way the size of the defect to be repaired can be determined. This process takes into account that for example roughly 80 of patients have a healthy lateral component. As will be apparent some but not all defects will include less than the entire cartilage. Thus in one embodiment the thickness of the normal or only mildly diseased cartilage surrounding one or more cartilage defects is measured. This thickness measurement can be obtained at a single point or preferably at multiple points for example 2 point 4 6 points 7 10 points more than 10 points or over the length of the entire remaining cartilage. Furthermore once the size of the defect is determined an appropriate therapy e.g. articular repair system can be selected such that as much as possible of the healthy surrounding tissue is preserved.

In other embodiments the curvature of the articular surface can be measured to design and or shape the repair material. Further both the thickness of the remaining cartilage and the curvature of the articular surface can be measured to design and or shape the repair material. Alternatively the curvature of the subchondral bone can be measured and the resultant measurement s can be used to either select or shape a cartilage replacement material. For example the contour of the subchondral bone can be used to re create a virtual cartilage surface the margins of an area of diseased cartilage can be identified. The subchondral bone shape in the diseased areas can be measured. A virtual contour can then be created by copying the subchondral bone surface into the cartilage surface whereby the copy of the subchondral bone surface connects the margins of the area of diseased cartilage. In shaping the device the contours can be configured to mate with existing cartilage or to account for the removal of some or all of the cartilage.

The implant has an upper surface a lower surface and a peripheral edge . The upper surface is formed so that it forms a mating surface for receiving the opposing joint surface in this instance partially concave to receive the femur. The concave surface can be variably concave such that it presents a surface to the opposing joint surface e.g. a negative surface of the mating surface of the femur it communicates with. As will be appreciated the negative impression need not be a perfect one.

The upper surface of the implant can be shaped by a variety of means. For example the upper surface can be shaped by projecting the surface from the existing cartilage and or bone surfaces on the tibial plateau or it can be shaped to mirror the femoral condyle in order to optimize the complimentary surface of the implant when it engages the femoral condyle. Alternatively the superior surface e.g. the outer surface of the implant i.e. that which will interface with the opposing joint surface or an implant affixed to the opposing joint surface can be configured to mate with an inferior surface e.g. the surface of the implant body that faces the articular surface to which the implant is to be affixed of an implant configured for the opposing femoral condyle.

The lower surface has a convex surface that matches or nearly matches the tibial plateau of the joint such that it creates an anatomic or near anatomic fit with the tibial plateau. Depending on the shape of the tibial plateau the lower surface can be partially convex as well. Thus the lower surface presents a surface to the tibial plateau that fits within the existing surface. It can be formed to match the existing surface or to match the surface after articular resurfacing.

As will be appreciated the convex surface of the lower surface need not be perfectly convex. Rather the lower surface is more likely consist of convex and concave portions that fit within the existing surface of the tibial plateau or the re surfaced plateau. Thus the surface is essentially variably convex and concave.

Turning now to cross sections of the implant shown in are depicted along the lines of C C D D and E E. The implant has a thickness t t and t respectively. As illustrated by the cross sections the thickness of the implant varies along both its length L and width W. The actual thickness at a particular location of the implant is a function of the thickness of the cartilage and or bone to be replaced and the joint mating surface to be replicated. Further the profile of the implant at any location along its length L or width W is a function of the cartilage and or bone to be replaced.

Additionally as shown in the joint anchor can have a cross member so that from a bottom perspective the joint anchor has the appearance of a cross or an x. As will be appreciated the joint anchor may take on a variety of other forms while still accomplishing the same objective of providing increased stability of the implant in the joint. These forms include but are not limited to pins bulbs balls teeth etc. Additionally one or more joint anchors can be provided as desired. and N illustrate cross sections of alternate embodiments of a dual component implant from a side view and a front view.

In an alternate embodiment shown in it may be desirable to provide a one or more cross members on the lower surface in order to provide a bit of translation movement of the implant relative to the surface of the femur or femur implant. In that event the cross member can be formed integral to the surface of the implant or can be one or more separate pieces that fit within a groove on the lower surface of the implant . The groove can form a single channel as shown in FIG. N or can have more than one channel as shown in FIG. N. In either event the cross bar then fits within the channel as shown in FIGS. N N. The cross bar members can form a solid or hollow tube or pipe structure as shown in . Where two or more tubes communicate to provide translation a groove can be provided along the surface of one or both cross members to interlock the tubes into a cross bar member further stabilizing the motion of the cross bar relative to the implant . As will be appreciated the cross bar member can be formed integrally with the implant without departing from the scope.

As shown in it is anticipated that the surface of the tibial plateau will be prepared by forming channels thereon to receive the cross bar members. Thus facilitating the ability of the implant to seat securely within the joint while still providing movement about an axis when the knee joint is in motion.

FIG. S illustrate an alternate embodiment of implant . As illustrated in the edges are beveled to relax a sharp corner. FIG. S illustrates an implant having a single fillet or bevel . The fillet is placed on the implant anterior to the posterior portion of the tibial spine. As shown in FIG. S two fillets are provided and used for the posterior chamfer. In FIG. S a third fillet is provided to create two cut surfaces for the posterior chamfer.

Turning now to FIG. S a tangent of the implant is deselected leaving three posterior curves. FIG. S shows the result of tangent propagation. FIG. S illustrates the effect on the design when the bottom curve is selected without tangent propagation. The result of tangent propagation and selection is shown in FIG. S . As can be seen in FIG. S the resulting corner has a softer edge but sacrifices less than 0.5 mm of joint space. As will be appreciated additional cutting planes can be added without departing from the scope.

Turning now to an implant suitable for providing an opposing joint surface to the implant of is shown. This implant corrects a defect on an inferior surface of the femur e.g. the condyle of the femur that mates with the tibial plateau and can be used alone i.e. on the femur or in combination with another joint repair device. Formation of the surfaces of the devices can be achieved using the techniques described above with respect to the implant of .

The anchors may take on a variety of other forms while still accomplishing the objective of providing increased stability of the implant in the joint. These forms include but are not limited to pins bulbs balls teeth etc. Additionally one or more joint anchors can be provided as desired. As illustrated in three pins are used to anchor the implant . However more or fewer joint anchors cruciate stems or pins can be used without departing from the scope.

Turning now to a view of the tibial plateau mating surface of the implant is illustrated. As is apparent from this view the surface is curved such that it is convex or substantially convex in order to mate with the concave surface of the plateau. illustrates the upper surface of the implant further illustrating the use of three pegs for anchoring the implant to the bone. As illustrated the three pegs are positioned to form a triangle. However as will be appreciated one or more pegs can be used and the orientation of the pegs to one another can be as shown or any other suitable orientation that enables the desired anchoring. illustrated a cross section of the implant taken along the lines F F shown in . Typically the pegs are oriented on the surface of the implant so that the peg is perpendicular to the femoral condyle which may not result in the peg being perpendicular to the surface of the implant.

As will be appreciated the implant can be manufactured from a material that has memory such that the implant can be configured to snap fit over the condyle. Alternatively it can be shaped such that it conforms to the surface without the need of a snap fit.

Similar to the implant of the implant can optionally oppose one or more implants or opposing joint surfaces such as those shown in and can be combined with other implants such as the implants of . is a perspective side view of the implant of . As shown in the superior surface of the implant is curved to correspond to the curvature of the femoral condyle that it mates with and the portion of the patellar surface of the femur that it covers. One or more pegs can be provided to assist in anchoring the implant to the bone. Additionally an angled surface can be provided on an interior surface of the condyle component that conforms to an optionally provided cut made on the surface of the joint surface with which the implant mates.

Using the implant described in this application the three point loading will occur from set up 1 2900 N . To replicate a worst case loading scenario a 75 25 load distribution 75 of 2900 N 2175 N can be used. The loading will be concentrated on a 6 mm diameter circular area located directly below and normal to the pad on the bearing surface.

Turning to the cantilever loading shown in the loading will occur from set up 3 or 90 at a 75 25 load distribution 75 of 3625 N 2719 N . As with the above example the loading will be concentrated on a 6 mm diameter circular area located at the center of the posterior most portion of the medial condyle normal to the flat cut surface of the posterior condyle.

Turning now to and N the implant is positioned such that it communicates with an implant designed to correct a defect in the tibial plateau such as those shown in .

In another embodiment the implant has a superior surface which substantially conforms to the surface of the condyle but which has at one flat portion corresponding to an oblique cut on the bone as shown in .

Turning now to an implant is shown from a side view with a 7 difference between the anterior and posterior cuts.

By dividing the surfaces of the medial and lateral compartments into independent articulating surfaces as shown in the implant provides improved fit of the conformal surfaces to the subchondral bone. Additionally the lateral anterior portion of the femur is shielded from stress which could cause bone loss. Also the smaller size of each component of the implant enables the implant to be placed within the joint using a smaller incision. Finally the wear of the patellar component is improved.

Turning now to the implant is shown superimposed on the unaltered patella in order to illustrate that the position of the dome of the implant corresponds to the location of the patellar ridge.

The arthroplasty system can be designed to reflect aspects of the tibial shape femoral shape and or patellar shape. Tibial shape and femoral shape can include cartilage bone or both. Moreover the shape of the implant can also include portions or all components of other articular structures such as the menisci. The menisci are compressible in particular during gait or loading. For this reason the implant can be designed to incorporate aspects of the meniscal shape accounting for compression of the menisci during loading or physical activities. For example the undersurface of the implant can be designed to match the shape of the tibial plateau including cartilage or bone or both. The superior surface of the implant can be a composite of the articular surface of the tibia in particular in areas that are not covered by menisci and the meniscus. Thus the outer aspects of the device can be a reflection of meniscal height. Accounting for compression this can be for example 20 40 60 or 80 of uncompressed meniscal height.

Similarly the superior surface of the implant can be designed to match the shape of the femoral condyle including cartilage or bone or both. The inferior surface of the implant can be a composite of the surface of the tibial plateau in particular in areas that are not covered by menisci and the meniscus. Thus at least a portion of the outer aspects of the device can be a reflection of meniscal height. Accounting for compression this can be for example 20 40 60 or 80 of uncompressed meniscal height. These same properties can be applied to the implants shown in as well.

In some embodiments the outer aspect of the device reflecting the meniscal shape can be made of another preferably compressible material. If a compressible material is selected it is preferably designed to substantially match the compressibility and biomechanical behavior of the meniscus.

The height and shape of the menisci for any joint surface to be repaired can be measured directly on an imaging test. If portions or all of the meniscus are torn the meniscal height and shape can be derived from measurements of a contralateral joint or using measurements of other articular structures that can provide an estimate on meniscal dimensions.

In another embodiment the superior face of the implants or can be shaped according to the femur. The shape can preferably be derived from the movement patterns of the femur relative to the tibial plateau thereby accounting for variations in femoral shape and tibiofemoral contact area as the femoral condyle flexes extends rotates translates and glides on the tibia and menisci. The movement patterns can be measured using any current or future test know in the art such as fluoroscopy MRI gait analysis and combinations thereof.

The arthroplasty can have two or more components one essentially mating with the tibial surface and the other substantially articulating with the femoral component. The two components can have a flat opposing surface. Alternatively the opposing surface can be curved. The curvature can be a reflection of the tibial shape the femoral shape including during joint motion and the meniscal shape and combinations thereof.

Wear pattern can be adjusted in any joint and for any type of replacement or resurfacing device. For example wear patterns in hips knees ankles elbows shoulders and spines can be adjusted and or corrected. Similarly various types of devices associated with repairs of such joints can be used. For example a wear pattern in a knee can be adjusted and or corrected in various types of knee devices including without limitation interpositional devices uni compartmental and bi compartmental resurfacing devices total resurfacing devices and total knee replacement devices. In cases where multiple contact points or wear patterns are identified in a joint for example wear patterns associated with both the medial and lateral femoral condyles in a total knee resurfacing both can be corrected or improved.

The wear patterns can be adjusted to improve or reduce wear on a new device such as a hip replacement or a uni compartmental resurfacing device to for example reduce wear on the device and increase the expected lifetime of the device. Additionally wear patterns can be adjusted to improve the overall kinematics of the joint for example to alter the kinematics to an improved or even ideal case to improve the patient s overall motion in the joint. For example a device can be designed for a knee joint that functions in a manner that increases wear and degradation of the joint such that the device when implanted alters the motion of the joint to a more ideal case with reduced wear and improved functionality.

When an orthopedic device is implanted into a joint the wear pattern on the articular surface s can be altered and controlled. For example when a unicompartmental knee resurfacing device is implanted in a knee the wear pattern on the tibial articular surface between the tibia and femur can be changed such that the tibial articular surface functions differently after the implant is in place and the wear pattern at the articular surface is changed when compared to the wear pattern prior to surgery. Unlike existing off the shelf implants which may change the wear pattern simply by virtue of introducing a new geometry into the joint the wear pattern is changed by design based on the existing geometry and or kinematics of a particular patient or set or class of patients. This allows the wear pattern to be controlled for that individual patient or for a class or set of patients that exhibit similar characteristic wear patterns joint geometries and or joint kinematics. Thus for example an improved wear pattern can be designed into a particular orthopedic implant that is specific to a single patient s anatomy or the wear pattern can be altered based one or more designs from a library of designs that can be applied to one or more patients exhibiting a particular set of characteristics that meet predefined rules or other analyses. Further the design can be based at least in part on the geometry of the joint on the kinematics of the joint or on a combination thereof.

Glenoid component includes a glenoid member extending in a superior inferior direction that is in upward and downward directions between an upper or superior edge and a lower or inferior edge . An obverse or lateral face at the front of the glenoid member has a concave contour configuration and provides bearing means in the form of a concave bearing surface for receiving a humeral head. An aspect can be seen in wherein the concavity of bearing surface has been adjusted inferiorly to match an inferior wear pattern on the humeral head. In the concavity of bearing surface has been adjusted superiorly to match a superior wear pattern on the humeral head.

In a lateral wear pattern can be seen in the lateral tibial plateau . Device is an implant having a bearing surface based on patient specific information and desirably derived from imaging data as described herein. In device the concavity of bearing surface is adjusted laterally to account for and adapt to the wear characteristics of this particular patient.

In a central wear pattern can be seen in the lateral tibial plateau . Device is an implant having a bearing surface based on patient specific information and desirably derived from imaging data as described herein. In device the concavity of bearing surface is adjusted centrally to account for and adapt to the wear characteristics of this particular patient.

In an anterior wear pattern can be seen in the lateral tibial plateau . Device is an implant having a bearing surface based on patient specific information and desirably derived from imaging data as described herein. In device the concavity of bearing surface is adjusted anteriorly to account for and adapt to the wear characteristics of this particular patient.

In a central wear pattern can be seen in the lateral tibial plateau . Device is an implant having a bearing surface based on patient specific information and desirably derived from imaging data as described herein. In device the concavity of bearing surface is adjusted centrally to account for and adapt to the wear characteristics of this particular patient.

In the above embodiments if desirable the width of the concavity e.g. in the tibial and glenoid components may be widened to provide a less constraining arrangement if the wear pattern is wide. Alternately if desirable the width of the concavity e.g. in the tibial and glenoid components may be narrowed to provide a more constraining arrangement if wear pattern is narrow.

Various components and combinations of components can be used in devices that correct or adjust wear patters. Examples of single component systems include plastics polymers metals metal alloys crystal free metals biologic materials or combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the surface of the repair system facing the underlying bone can be smooth. In other embodiments the surface of the repair system facing the underlying bone can be porous or porous coated. In another aspect the surface of the repair system facing the underlying bone is designed with one or more grooves for example to facilitate the in growth of the surrounding tissue. The external surface of the device can have a step like design which can be advantageous for altering biomechanical stresses. Optionally flanges can also be added at one or more positions on the device e.g. to prevent the repair system from rotating to control toggle and or prevent settling into the marrow cavity . The flanges can be part of a conical or a cylindrical design. A portion or all of the repair system facing the underlying bone can also be flat which can help to control depth of the implant and to prevent toggle.

Examples of multiple component systems include combinations of metals plastics metal alloys crystal free metals and biological materials. One or more components of the articular surface repair system can be composed of a biologic material e.g. a tissue scaffold with cells such as cartilage cells or stem cells alone or seeded within a substrate such as a bioresorbable material or a tissue scaffold allograft autograft or combinations thereof and or a non biological material e.g. polyethylene or a chromium alloy such as chromium cobalt .

Thus the repair system can include one or more areas of a single material or a combination of materials for example the articular surface repair system can have a first and a second component. The first component is typically designed to have size thickness and curvature similar to that of the cartilage tissue lost while the second component is typically designed to have a curvature similar to the subchondral bone. In addition the first component can have biomechanical properties similar to articular cartilage including but not limited to similar elasticity and resistance to axial loading or shear forces. The first and the second component can consist of two different metals or metal alloys. One or more components of the system e.g. the second portion can be composed of a biologic material including bone or a non biologic material e.g. hydroxyapatite tantalum chromium alloys chromium cobalt or other metal alloys.

One or more regions of the articular surface repair system e.g. the outer margin of the first portion and or the second portion can be bioresorbable for example to allow the interface between the articular surface repair system and the patient s normal cartilage over time to be filled in with hyaline or fibrocartilage. Similarly one or more regions e.g. the outer margin of the first portion of the articular surface repair system and or the second portion can be porous. The degree of porosity can change throughout the porous region linearly or non linearly for where the degree of porosity will typically decrease towards the center of the articular surface repair system. The pores can be designed for in growth of cartilage cells cartilage matrix and connective tissue thereby achieving a smooth interface between the articular surface repair system and the surrounding cartilage.

The repair system e.g. the second component in multiple component systems can be attached to the patient s bone with use of a cement like material such as methylmethacrylate injectable hydroxy or calcium apatite materials and the like.

In certain embodiments one or more portions of the articular surface repair system can be pliable or liquid or deformable at the time of implantation and can harden later. Hardening can occur for example within 1 second to 2 hours or any time period therebetween preferably with in 1 second to 30 minutes or any time period therebetween more preferably between 1 second and 10 minutes or any time period therebetween .

One or more components of the articular surface repair system can be adapted to receive injections. For example the external surface of the articular surface repair system can have one or more openings therein. The openings can be sized to receive screws tubing needles or other devices which can be inserted and advanced to the desired depth for example through the articular surface repair system into the marrow space. Injectables such as methylmethacrylate and injectable hydroxy or calcium apatite materials can then be introduced through the opening or tubing inserted therethrough into the marrow space thereby bonding the articular surface repair system with the marrow space. Similarly screws or pins or other anchoring mechanisms can be inserted into the openings and advanced to the underlying subchondral bone and the bone marrow or epiphysis to achieve fixation of the articular surface repair system to the bone. Portions or all components of the screw or pin can be bioresorbable for example the distal portion of a screw that protrudes into the marrow space can be bioresorbable. During the initial period after the surgery the screw can provide the primary fixation of the articular surface repair system. Subsequently ingrowth of bone into a porous coated area along the undersurface of the articular cartilage repair system can take over as the primary stabilizer of the articular surface repair system against the bone.

The articular surface repair system can be anchored to the patient s bone with use of a pin or screw or other attachment mechanism. The attachment mechanism can be bioresorbable. The screw or pin or attachment mechanism can be inserted and advanced towards the articular surface repair system from a non cartilage covered portion of the bone or from a non weight bearing surface of the joint.

The interface between the articular surface repair system and the surrounding normal cartilage can be at an angle for example oriented at an angle of 90 degrees relative to the underlying subchondral bone. Suitable angles can be determined in view of the teachings herein and in certain cases non 90 degree angles can have advantages with regard to load distribution along the interface between the articular surface repair system and the surrounding normal cartilage.

The interface between the articular surface repair system and the surrounding normal cartilage and or bone can be covered with a pharmaceutical or bioactive agent for example a material that stimulates the biological integration of the repair system into the normal cartilage and or bone. The surface area of the interface can be irregular for example to increase exposure of the interface to pharmaceutical or bioactive agents.

As described herein repair systems of various sizes curvatures and thicknesses can be obtained. These repair systems can be catalogued and stored to create a library of systems from which an appropriate system for an individual patient can then be selected. In other words a defect or an articular surface is assessed in a particular subject and a pre existing repair system having a suitable shape and size is selected from the library for further manipulation e.g. shaping and implantation.

The methods and compositions described herein can be used to replace only a portion of the articular surface for example an area of diseased cartilage or lost cartilage on the articular surface. In these systems the articular surface repair system can be designed to replace only the area of diseased or lost cartilage or it can extend beyond the area of diseased or lost cartilage e.g. 3 or 5 mm into normal adjacent cartilage. In certain embodiments the prosthesis replaces less than about 70 to 80 or any value therebetween of the articular surface e.g. any given articular surface such as a single femoral condyle etc. preferably less than about 50 to 70 or any value therebetween more preferably less than about 30 to 50 or any value therebetween more preferably less than about 20 to 30 or any value therebetween even more preferably less than about 20 of the articular surface.

The prosthesis can include multiple components for example a component that is implanted into the bone e.g. a metallic device attached to a component that is shaped to cover the defect of the cartilage overlaying the bone. Additional components for example intermediate plates meniscal repair systems and the like can also be included. It is contemplated that each component replaces less than all of the corresponding articular surface. However each component need not replace the same portion of the articular surface. In other words the prosthesis can have a bone implanted component that replaces less than 30 of the bone and a cartilage component that replaces 60 of the cartilage. The prosthesis can include any combination provided each component replaces less than the entire articular surface.

The articular surface repair system can be formed or selected so that it will achieve a near anatomic fit or match with the surrounding or adjacent cartilage or bone. Typically the articular surface repair system is formed and or selected so that its outer margin located at the external surface will be aligned with the surrounding or adjacent cartilage.

Thus the articular repair system can be designed to replace the weight bearing portion or more or less than the weight bearing portion of an articular surface for example in a femoral condyle. The weight bearing surface refers to the contact area between two opposing articular surfaces during activities of normal daily living e.g. normal gait . At least one or more weight bearing portions can be replaced in this manner e.g. on a femoral condyle and on a tibia.

In other embodiments an area of diseased cartilage or cartilage loss can be identified in a weight bearing area and only a portion of the weight bearing area specifically the portion containing the diseased cartilage or area of cartilage loss can be replaced with an articular surface repair system.

In another embodiment the articular repair system can be designed or selected to replace substantially the entire articular surface e.g. a condyle.

In another embodiment for example in patients with diffuse cartilage loss the articular repair system can be designed to replace an area slightly larger than the weight bearing surface.

In certain aspects the defect to be repaired is located only on one articular surface typically the most diseased surface. For example in a patient with severe cartilage loss in the medial femoral condyle but less severe disease in the tibia the articular surface repair system can only be applied to the medial femoral condyle. Preferably in any methods described herein the articular surface repair system is designed to achieve an exact or a near anatomic fit with the adjacent normal cartilage.

In other embodiments more than one articular surface can be repaired. The area s of repair will be typically limited to areas of diseased cartilage or cartilage loss or areas slightly greater than the area of diseased cartilage or cartilage loss within the weight bearing surface s .

In another embodiment one or more components of the articular surface repair e.g. the surface of the system that is pointing towards the underlying bone or bone marrow can be porous or porous coated. A variety of different porous metal coatings have been proposed for enhancing fixation of a metallic prosthesis by bone tissue in growth. Thus for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 855 638 discloses a surgical prosthetic device which can be used as a bone prosthesis comprising a composite structure consisting of a solid metallic material substrate and a porous coating of the same solid metallic material adhered to and extending over at least a portion of the surface of the substrate. The porous coating consists of a plurality of small discrete particles of metallic material bonded together at their points of contact with each other to define a plurality of connected interstitial pores in the coating. The size and spacing of the particles which can be distributed in a plurality of monolayers can be such that the average interstitial pore size is not more than about 200 microns. Additionally the pore size distribution can be substantially uniform from the substrate coating interface to the surface of the coating. In another embodiment the articular surface repair system can contain one or more polymeric materials that can be loaded with and release therapeutic agents including drugs or other pharmacological treatments that can be used for drug delivery. The polymeric materials can for example be placed inside areas of porous coating. The polymeric materials can be used to release therapeutic drugs e.g. bone or cartilage growth stimulating drugs. This embodiment can be combined with other embodiments wherein portions of the articular surface repair system can be bioresorbable. For example the first layer of an articular surface repair system or portions of its first layer can be bioresorbable. As the first layer gets increasingly resorbed local release of a cartilage growth stimulating drug can facilitate in growth of cartilage cells and matrix formation.

In any of the methods or compositions described herein the articular surface repair system can be pre manufactured with a range of sizes curvatures and thicknesses. Alternatively the articular surface repair system can be custom made for an individual patient.

In certain instances shaping of the repair material will be required before or after formation e.g. growth to desired thickness for example where the thickness of the required cartilage material is not uniform e.g. where different sections of the cartilage replacement or regenerating material require different thicknesses .

The replacement material can be shaped by any suitable technique including but not limited to casting techniques mechanical abrasion laser abrasion or ablation radiofrequency treatment cryoablation variations in exposure time and concentration of nutrients enzymes or growth factors and any other means suitable for influencing or changing cartilage thickness. See e.g. WO 00 15153. If enzymatic digestion is used certain sections of the cartilage replacement or regenerating material can be exposed to higher doses of the enzyme or can be exposed longer as a means of achieving different thicknesses and curvatures of the cartilage replacement or regenerating material in different sections of said material.

The material can be shaped manually and or automatically for example using a device into which a pre selected thickness and or curvature has been input and then programming the device using the input information to achieve the desired shape.

In addition to or instead of shaping the cartilage repair material the site of implantation e.g. bone surface any cartilage material remaining etc. can also be shaped by any suitable technique in order to enhance integration of the repair material.

The articular repair system can be formed or selected so that it will achieve a near anatomic fit or match with the surrounding or adjacent cartilage subchondral bone menisci and or other tissue. The shape of the repair system can be based on an imaging analysis. If the articular repair system is intended to replace an area of diseased cartilage or lost cartilage the near anatomic fit can be achieved using a method that provides a virtual reconstruction of the shape of healthy cartilage in an electronic image or reflect or conform to a wear pattern. An imaging analysis may include conventional and digital imaging techniques known in the art including x ray imaging and processing fluoroscopy digital tomosynthesis ultrasound including A scan B scan and C scan optical coherence conventional cone beam or spiral computed tomography CT single photon emission tomography SPECT bone scan positron emission tomography PET magnetic resonance imaging MRI thermal imaging and optical imaging or a combination thereof. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature and need not be described herein. See e.g. 2nd Ed. Stout et al. eds. Wiley Sons 1989 Slone ed. McGraw Hill 1999 Lam ed. Springer Verlag 1998 Brocklebank ed. Oxford University Press 1997 and 2Ed. Bushberg et al.

In one embodiment a near normal cartilage surface at the position of the cartilage defect can be reconstructed by interpolating the healthy cartilage surface across the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage. This can for example be achieved by describing the healthy cartilage by means of a parametric surface e.g. a B spline surface for which the control points are placed such that the parametric surface follows the contour of the healthy cartilage and bridges the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage. The continuity properties of the parametric surface will provide a smooth integration of the part that bridges the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage with the contour of the surrounding healthy cartilage. The part of the parametric surface over the area of the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage can be used to determine the shape or part of the shape of the articular repair system to match with the surrounding cartilage.

In another embodiment a near normal cartilage surface at the position of the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage can be reconstructed using morphological image processing. In a first step the cartilage can be extracted from the electronic image using manual semi automated and or automated segmentation techniques e.g. manual tracing region growing live wire model based segmentation resulting in a binary image. Defects in the cartilage appear as indentations that can be filled with a morphological closing operation performed in 2 D or 3 D with an appropriately selected structuring element. The closing operation is typically defined as a dilation followed by an erosion. A dilation operator sets the current pixel in the output image to 1 if at least one pixel of the structuring element lies inside a region in the source image. An erosion operator sets the current pixel in the output image to 1 if the whole structuring element lies inside a region in the source image. The filling of the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage creates a new surface over the area of the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage that can be used to determine the shape or part of the shape of the articular repair system to match with the surrounding cartilage or subchondral bone.

As described above the articular repair system can be formed or selected from a library or database of systems of various sizes curvatures and thicknesses so that it will achieve a near anatomic fit or match with the surrounding or adjacent cartilage and or subchondral bone. These systems can be pre made or made to order for an individual patient. In order to control the fit or match of the articular repair system with the surrounding or adjacent cartilage or subchondral bone or menisci and other tissues preoperatively a software program can be used that projects the articular repair system over the anatomic position where it will be implanted. Suitable software is commercially available and or readily modified or designed by a skilled programmer.

In yet another embodiment the articular surface repair system can be projected over the implantation site using one or more 3 D images. The cartilage and or subchondral bone and other anatomic structures are extracted from a 3 D electronic image such as an MRI or a CT using manual semi automated and or automated segmentation techniques. A 3 D representation of the cartilage and or subchondral bone and other anatomic structures as well as the articular repair system is generated for example using a polygon or NURBS surface or other parametric surface representation. For a description of various parametric surface representations see for example Foley J. D. et al. Computer Graphics Principles and Practice in C Addison Wesley 2edition 1995 .

The 3 D representations of the cartilage and or subchondral bone and other anatomic structures and the articular repair system can be merged into a common coordinate system. The articular repair system can then be placed at the desired implantation site. The representations of the cartilage subchondral bone menisci and other anatomic structures and the articular repair system are rendered into a 3 D image for example application programming interfaces APIs OpenGL standard library of advanced 3 D graphics functions developed by SGI Inc. available as part of the drivers for PC based video cards for example from www.nvidia.com for NVIDIA video cards orati.amd.com for ATI AMD products or DirectX multimedia API for Microsoft Windows based PC systems available from www.microsoft.com . The 3 D image can be rendered showing the cartilage subchondral bone menisci or other anatomic objects and the articular repair system from varying angles e.g. by rotating or moving them interactively or non interactively in real time or non real time.

The software can be designed so that the articular repair system including surgical tools and instruments with the best fit relative to the cartilage and or subchondral bone is automatically selected for example using some of the techniques described above. Alternatively the operator can select an articular repair system including surgical tools and instruments and project it or drag it onto the implantation site using suitable tools and techniques. The operator can move and rotate the articular repair systems in three dimensions relative to the implantation site and can perform a visual inspection of the fit between the articular repair system and the implantation site. The visual inspection can be computer assisted. The procedure can be repeated until a satisfactory fit has been achieved. The procedure can be performed manually by the operator or it can be computer assisted in whole or part. For example the software can select a first trial implant that the operator can test. The operator can evaluate the fit. The software can be designed and used to highlight areas of poor alignment between the implant and the surrounding cartilage or subchondral bone or menisci or other tissues. Based on this information the software or the operator can then select another implant and test its alignment. One of skill in the art will readily be able to select modify and or create suitable computer programs for the purposes described herein.

In another embodiment the implantation site can be visualized using one or more cross sectional 2 D images. Typically a series of 2 D cross sectional images will be used. The articular repair system can then be superimposed onto one or more of these 2 D images. The 2 D cross sectional images can be reconstructed in other planes e.g. from sagittal to coronal etc. Isotropic data sets e.g. data sets where the slice thickness is the same or nearly the same as the in plane resolution or near isotropic data sets can also be used. Multiple planes can be displayed simultaneously for example using a split screen display. The operator can also scroll through the 2 D images in any desired orientation in real time or near real time the operator can rotate the imaged tissue volume while doing this. The articular repair system can be displayed in cross section utilizing different display planes e.g. sagittal coronal or axial typically matching those of the 2 D images demonstrating the cartilage subchondral bone menisci or other tissue. Alternatively a three dimensional display can be used for the articular repair system. The 2 D electronic image and the 2 D or 3 D representation of the articular repair system can be merged into a common coordinate system. The articular repair system can then be placed at the desired implantation site. The series of 2 D cross sections of the anatomic structures the implantation site and the articular repair system can be displayed interactively e.g. the operator can scroll through a series of slices or non interactively e.g. as an animation that moves through the series of slices in real time or non real time.

Rapid prototyping is a technique for fabricating a three dimensional object from a computer model of the object. A special printer is used to fabricate the prototype from a plurality of two dimensional layers. Computer software sections the representations of the object into a plurality of distinct two dimensional layers and then a three dimensional printer fabricates a layer of material for each layer sectioned by the software. Together the various fabricated layers form the desired prototype. More information about rapid prototyping techniques is available in U.S. Publication No. 200210079601A1. An advantage to using rapid prototyping is that it enables the use of free form fabrication techniques that use toxic or potent compounds safely. These compounds can be safely incorporated in an excipient envelope which reduces worker exposure

A powder piston and build bed are provided. Powder includes any material metal plastic etc. that can be made into a powder or bonded with a liquid. The power is rolled from a feeder source with a spreader onto a surface of a bed. The thickness of the layer is controlled by the computer. The print head then deposits a binder fluid onto the powder layer at a location where it is desired that the powder bind. Powder is again rolled into the build bed and the process is repeated with the binding fluid deposition being controlled at each layer to correspond to the three dimensional location of the device formation. For a further discussion of this process see e.g. U.S. Patent Publication No. 2003 017365A1.

The rapid prototyping can use the two dimensional images obtained as described above to determine each of the two dimensional shapes for each of the layers of the prototyping machine. In this scenario each two dimensional image slice would correspond to a two dimensional prototype slide. Alternatively the three dimensional shape of the defect can be determined as described above and then broken down into two dimensional slices for the rapid prototyping process. The advantage of using the three dimensional model is that the two dimensional slices used for the rapid prototyping machine can be along the same plane as the two dimensional images taken or along a different plane altogether.

Rapid prototyping can be combined or used in conjunction with casting techniques. For example a shell or container with inner dimensions corresponding to an articular repair system can be made using rapid prototyping. Plastic or wax like materials are typically used for this purpose. The inside of the container can subsequently be coated for example with a ceramic for subsequent casting. Using this process personalized casts can be generated.

Rapid prototyping can be used for producing articular repair systems. Rapid prototyping can be performed at a manufacturing facility. Alternatively it may be performed in the operating room after an intraoperative measurement has been performed.

Wear pattern specific implant shapes or geometries can be achieved using a number of different manufacturing techniques known in the art including polishing milling machining casting rapid protocasting laser sintering laser melting and electro abrasion. In one embodiment the wear pattern adapted articular surface may be formed de novo. In another embodiment the wear pattern adapted articular surface may be formed by processing an implant with a standard shape of the articular surface a blank and adapting the shape for the particular wear pattern e.g. using machining or electroabrasion.

Prior to performing surgery on a patient the surgeon can preoperatively make a determination of the alignment of the knee using for example an erect AP x ray. In performing preoperative assessment any lateral and patella spurs that are present can be identified.

Using standard surgical techniques the patient is anesthetized and an incision is made in order to provide access to the portion or portions of the knee joint to be repaired. A medial portal can be used initially to enable arthroscopy of the joint. Thereafter the medial portal can be incorporated into the operative incision and or standard lateral portals can be used.

Once an appropriate incision has been made the exposed compartment is inspected for integrity including the integrity of the ligament structures. If necessary portions of the meniscus can be removed as well as any spurs or osteophytes that were identified in the AP x ray or that may be present within the joint. In order to facilitate removal of osteophytes the surgeon may flex the knee to gain exposure to additional medial and medial posterior osteophytes. Additionally osteophytes can be removed from the patella during this process. If necessary the medial and or lateral meniscus can also be removed at this point if desired along with the rim of the meniscus.

As would be appreciated by those of skill in the art evaluation of the medial cruciate ligament may be required to facilitate tibial osteophyte removal.

To insert the device of into the medial compartment a mini incision arthrotomy medial to the patella tendon is made. Once the incision is made the medial condyle is exposed and a medial sleeve is prepared to about 1 cm below the joint line using a suitable knife and curved osteotome. After preparing the medial sleeve a Z retractor is placed around the medial tibial plateau and anterior portions of the meniscus and the osteophytes along the tibia and femur are removed. At this point the knee should be flexed to about 60 or more. The Z retractor is removed and the implant is placed against the most distal aspect of the femur and over the tibial plateau edge. The implant should be pushed straight back. In some instances application of valgus stress may ease insertion of the implant.

To insert the device of into the lateral compartment a mini incision arthrotomy is performed lateral to the patella tendon. Once the incision is made the lateral condyle is exposed and a lateral sleeve is prepared to about 1 cm below the joint line using a suitable knife and curved osteotome. After preparing the lateral sleeve a Z retractor is placed around the lateral tibial plateau and anterior portions of the meniscus and the osteophytes along the tibia and femur are removed. The Z retractor is removed and the implant is placed against the distal aspect of the femur and over the tibial plateau edge. The implant is held at a 45 angle and rotated against the lateral condyle using a lateral to medial push toward the lateral spine. In some instances application of varus stress may ease insertion of the implant.

Once any implant shown in is implanted the device should be positioned within 0 to 2 mm of the AP boundaries of the tibial plateau and superimposed over the boundary. Verification of the range of motion should then be performed to confirm that there is minimal translation of the implant. Once positioning is confirmed closure of the wound is performed using techniques known in the art.

As will be appreciated additional treatment of the surface of the tibial plateau may be desirable depending on the configuration of the implant . For example one or more channels or grooves may be formed on the surface of the tibial plateau to accommodate anchoring mechanisms such as the keel shown in or the translational movement cross members shown in .

To insert the device shown in depending on the condyle to be repaired either an antero medial or antero lateral skin incision is made which begins approximately 1 cm proximal to the superior border of the patella. The incision typically can range from for example 6 10 cm along the edge of the patella. As will be appreciated a longer incision may be required under some circumstances.

It may be required to excise excess deep synovium to improve access to the joint. Additionally all or part of the fat pad may also be excused and to enable inspection of the opposite joint compartment. Typically osteophytes are removed from the entire medial and or lateral edge of the femur and the tibia as well as any osteophytes on the edge of the patella that might be significant.

Although it is possible typically the devices do not require resection of the distal femur prior to implanting the device. However if desired bone cuts can be performed to provide a surface for the implant.

At this juncture the patient s leg is placed in 90 flexion position. A guide can then be placed on the condyle which covers the distal femoral cartilage. The guide enables the surgeon to determine placement of apertures that enable the implant to be accurately placed on the condyle. With the guide in place holes are drilled into the condyle to create apertures from 1 3 mm in depth. Once the apertures have been created the guide is removed and the implant is installed on the surface of the condyle. Cement can be used to facilitate adherence of the implant to the condyle.

Where more than one condyle is to be repaired e.g. using two implants of or the implant of or where a condyle and a portion of the patellar surface is to be repaired e.g. using the implant of the surgical technique described herein would be modified to for example provide a greater incision for accessing the joint provide additional apertures for receiving the pegs of the implant etc.

To insert the device shown in it may be appropriate to use the incisions made laterally or medially to the patella tendon and described above with respect to . First the patella is everted laterally and the fat pad and synovium are bent back from around the periphery of the patella. If desired osteophytes can be removed. Prior to resurfacing the natural patella the knee should be manually taken through several ranges of motion maneuvers to determine whether subluxation is present. If subluxation is present then it may be necessary to medialize the implant . The natural patella can then be cut in a planar or flat manner such that a flat surface is presented to the implant. The geometric center of the patella is then typically aligned with the geometric center of the implant . In order to anchor the implant to the patella one or more holes or apertures can be created in the patellar surface to accept the pegs of the implant .

One ore more of the implants described above can be combined together in a kit such that the surgeon can select one or more implants to be used during surgery.

This description is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed and the generic principles defined herein can be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope as defined by the appended claims. The application of the concepts and principals extends beyond the specific embodiments described herein which can be modified to suit particular uses contemplated and entirely different embodiments are possible that will employ some or all of the principles described and have some all or different advantages than those described herein. Methods recited herein may be carried out in any order of the recited events which is logically possible as well as the recited order of events. Where a range of values is provided it is understood that every intervening value between the upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated range is encompassed. Also it is contemplated that any optional feature of the inventive variations described may be set forth and claimed independently or in combination with any one or more of the features described herein. To the extent necessary to achieve a complete understanding disclosed the specification and drawings of all issued patents patent publications and patent applications cited in this application are incorporated herein by reference.

