---

title: Electrochemical device for syngas and liquid fuels production
abstract: The invention relates to methods for creating high value liquid fuels such as gasoline, diesel, jet and alcohols using carbon dioxide and water as the starting raw materials and a system for using the same. These methods combine a novel solid oxide electrolytic cell (SOEC) for the efficient and clean conversion of carbon dioxide and water to hydrogen and carbon monoxide, uniquely integrated with a gas-to-liquid fuels producing method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09631284&OS=09631284&RS=09631284
owner: Alliance for Sustainable Energy, LLC
number: 09631284
owner_city: Golden
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 830 708 filed Jun. 4 2013 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 793 054 filed Mar. 15 2013 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under award number KXEA 3 33607 54 awarded by the National Renewable Energy Laboratories NREL . The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to methods for creating high value liquid fuels such as gasoline diesel and jet using carbon dioxide and water as the starting raw materials. These methods combine a novel solid oxide electrolytic cell SOEC for the efficient and clean conversion of these feedstocks to hydrogen and carbon monoxide syngas with the SOEC uniquely integrated with a gas to liquid fuels process.

Energy consumption in the United States and throughout the world continues to increase. As the demand for energy increases additional methods for producing energy are developed. Concerns about the increased waste and pollutants produced by many of the conventional energy production processes and the low efficiencies of such processes have led to further research for cleaner safer and more readily available energy sources. In particular development and application of both renewable energy technologies and energy policy has led to increasing renewable energy utilization solar wind geothermal for power and energy production. Large scale energy storage development is envisioned as a key requirement to enable significant penetration of renewable resources into the electric grid.

In response to increasing energy production requirements and the desire to reduce or eliminate pollutants from energy sources new cleaner fuel sources are being sought for a variety of applications especially for transportation fuels. A known source of cleaner fuels includes synthetic fuels made from synthesis gas or syngas by so called gas to liquid conversion processes.

However standard methods for the production of syngas are fraught with technical challenges and as a result cost challenges. Syngas is produced by steam reforming of methane coal gasification or biomass gasification. Steam reforming catalytically reacts methane gas with water to form syngas. The process operates at high temperature greater than about 800 C. and pressure as high as about 100 bar and typically requires expensive solid catalysts. Methane steam reforming is one of the most common and cost effective methods for the production of syngas but it also consumes a gaseous fossil fuel in order to provide the feedstock to a liquid fuel synthesis reactor.

Coal gasification refers to the thermochemical conversion of coal in a limited oxygen environment to produce syngas. However the syngas product stream resulting from coal gasification typically contains numerous contaminants including benzene toluene volatile organics polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons halides mercury hydrogen and carbonyl sulfides and tars. Since many downstream gas to liquid conversion processes require a clean syngas feed stream syngas from coal gasifiers requires additional treatment to remove these contaminants including particulate scrubbing halide removal mercury removal tar mitigation and desulfurization. The cleaning steps result in higher capital and operating costs which in turn increase the cost per standard cubic foot of clean syngas produced unit cost .

Biomass gasification faces many of the same syngas contaminant challenges. Thermochemical conversion of biomass e.g. cellulose hemicellulose lignin produces a wide range of compounds including oxygenates aromatic hydrocarbons phenolics in addition to benzene toluene and higher molecular weight tars. One study identified 230 separate chemical compounds formed by the thermal degradation of wood in addition to carbon monoxide and hydrogen. As a result syngas produced by biomass gasification like coal gasification requires significant processing before the syngas may be used in a gas to liquid process. Syngas tar removal is particularly complicated and costly requiring processing steps like wet and or dry scrubbing towers tar cracking acid gas removal demisters coalescers and or candle filters. This additional processing increases costs energy requirements and ultimately increases syngas unit cost.

The cost to produce syngas directly impacts the economic viability of the downstream gas to liquid conversion processes. One such process is the Fisher Tropsch process which converts syngas to long chained alkanes including diesel and jet fuel. However even today s Fisher Tropsch processes are complex costly and energy intensive. As a result Fisher Tropsch technology has seen limited industrial scale use. On exception is South Africa a country with large coal reserves but very little oil. The economic viability of Fisher Tropsch technology in most of the world depends on the costs of crude oil compared to the costs of producing alternative fuels. However given the historically volatile nature of natural gas costs the political uncertainty of coal and the rising global demand for crude oil alternative syngas and gas to liquid technologies and methods to integrate these technologies is needed. In addition linking the upstream syngas processes with downstream gas to liquid conversion processes requires innovative and novel heat integration methods. Otherwise such new alternative energy concepts may not be able to compete with the relatively low cost of crude oil.

One promising new option for syngas synfuel production is high temperature electrolysis technology which can also utilize intermittent renewable energy and provide energy storage in the form of liquid fuels. High temperature solid oxide fuel cells may be used to produce electricity and water from hydrogen and oxygen. When run in reverse a solid oxide fuel cell acts as a solid oxide electrolytic cell SOEC which is capable of electrolytically reducing water and carbon dioxide into hydrogen carbon monoxide and oxygen. Thus water and carbon dioxide may be directly converted into a clean syngas made up of hydrogen and carbon monoxide . In a solid oxide fuel cell the fuel electrode i.e. the anode is the oxidizing gas electrode and the air electrode i.e. the cathode is the reducing electrode. When operated in reverse as a solid oxide electrolytic cell the polarity of the cell is switched in which the fuel electrode becomes the cathode reducing the incoming reactants and the oxidant electrode becomes the anode. It has been shown that an SOEC may be used for high temperature co electrolysis of water and carbon dioxide to produce clean hydrogen and carbon monoxide thus eliminating the costly tar and contaminant removal steps present in coal and biomass gasification processes.

The present invention provides a novel method for producing syngas integrated with a gas to liquid conversion process that addresses the above mentioned problems.

The present invention discloses a novel fuel production method that integrates an optimized upstream high temperature solid oxide co electrolysis system for the production of clean syngas from carbon dioxide and steam with a downstream gas to liquid conversion process to produce liquid hydrocarbon fuels. One aspect of the present invention is a novel heat integration method that utilizes a fraction of the liquid fuel produced to provide the SOEC s thermal energy requirements. In addition the present invention discloses further integration between the up and downstream processes which generates steam reuses plant water and recycles Some or all of the hydrogen derived from the syngas and fuel synthesis processing steps back to the SOEC. This hydrogen recycle reduces SOEC operational costs and therefore the unit cost of the syngas produced.

An aspect of the present invention comprises a method to produce liquid fuels from flue gas. The method comprises producing a fuel gas in a power plant wherein the flue gas comprises carbon dioxide and providing the flue gas to a solid oxide electrolytic cell wherein the carbon dioxide in the flue gas reacts at a cathode of the solid oxide electrolytic cell to produce syngas and wherein power produced in the power plant powers the solid oxide electrolytic cell.

An aspect of the present invention comprises a method for producing liquid fuels. The method comprises preparing a feed stream comprising carbon dioxide which may comprises a substantial part of the feed stream and water utilizing a liquid oxidation method to remove hydrogen sulfide from the feed stream to form a scrubbed feed stream utilizing a zinc oxide bed to polish the scrubbed feed stream to produce a polished feed stream heating the polished feed stream to produce a heated feed stream wherein the heated feed stream has a temperature between about 800 C. to about 850 C. compressing an air stream to a pressure between about 1.0 bar to about 2.0 bar to produce a pressurized air stream heating the pressurized air stream to produce a heated air stream wherein the heated air stream has a temperature of about 750 C. to about 850 C. reacting the heated feed stream and the heated air stream in a solid oxide electrolytic cell to form a syngas and converting the syngas stream to the liquid fuels.

An aspect of the present invention comprises a method for producing liquid fuels comprising preparing a feed stream comprising carbon dioxide and water heating the feed stream to produce a heated feed stream compressing an air stream to produce a pressurized air stream heating the pressurized air stream to produce a heated air stream reacting the heated feed stream and the heated air stream in a solid oxide electrolytic cell to form a syngas and an oxygen containing stream wherein the electrolytic cell comprises a cathode and an anode treating the syngas to produce a treated syngas and converting the syngas to form the liquid fuels.

This Summary of the Invention is neither intended nor should it be construed as being representative of the full extent and scope of this disclosure. Moreover references made herein to the present disclosure or aspects thereof should be understood to mean certain embodiments and should not necessarily be construed as limiting all embodiments to a particular description. The present invention is set forth in various levels of detail in the Summary of the Invention as well as in the attached drawings and the Description of Embodiments and no limitation as to the scope is intended by either the inclusion or non inclusion of elements components etc. in this Summary of the Invention. Additional aspects will become more readily apparent from the Description of Embodiments particularly when taken together with the drawings.

The following detailed description illustrates the invention by way of examples and not by way of limitation. This description will clearly enable one skilled in the art to make and use the invention.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to affect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

The present invention relates to methods for creating high value liquid fuels such as gasoline diesel jet and light fuel gases using carbon dioxide and water as the starting raw materials. These methods combine a solid oxide electrolytic cell SOEC for the efficient and clean conversion of carbon dioxide and water to syngas uniquely integrated with a gas to liquid fuel producing process.

An aspect of the present invention is a method that produces liquid fuels. The method comprises preparing a feed stream comprising carbon dioxide and water heating the feed stream to produce a heated feed stream compressing an air stream to produce a pressurized air stream heating the pressurized air stream to produce a heated air stream reacting the heated feed stream and the heated air stream in a solid oxide electrolytic cell SOEC to form a syngas and an oxygen containing stream wherein the electrolytic cell comprises a cathode and an anode. The syngas stream is treated to produce a treated syngas stream thereby converting the syngas to produce the liquid fuels.

In some embodiments the carbon dioxide may be supplied from a single source by way of example from a carbon capture system or as byproduct from a fermentation process. Alternatively the carbon dioxide may be supplied from multiple sources. Multiple carbon dioxide sources may be combined prior to processing to produce syngas.

A carbon capture system may comprise a liquid system solid adsorption membrane separation ionic liquid system cryogenic separation low temperature distillation oxy combustion or a combination thereof or the like. More specifically a liquid system may comprise the use of liquid amines to remove carbon dioxide from a coal burning power plant s flue gas by the reversible reaction of the carbon dioxide with the amine to form soluble carbonate salt followed by elevated temperature regeneration to reform and release the carbon dioxide. Liquid amines may include but are not limited to monoethanolamine MEA methyldiethanolamine MDEA 2 amino 2 methylpropanol AMP piperazine PIPA diglycolamine DGA diethanolamine DEA di isopropanolamine DIPA and mixtures thereof. Other examples of specific amine carbon dioxide capture systems include but are not limited to Selexol Rectisol and the Praxair Advanced Amine Technology. Other liquid system carbon dioxide capture systems may include ammonia scrubbing systems. Solid adsorption carbon dioxide capture systems may include but are not limited to solid adsorbents impregnated with liquid amines solid amines silver oxide lithium hydroxide limestone activated carbon zeolites molecular sieves alumina bicarbonate resins and combinations thereof. Adsorption may be pressure swing or temperature swing adsorption. Mechanical methods for carbon dioxide capture may include but are not limited to vortex contactors and shear jet absorbers. Membrane systems may include but are not limited to polyimide polystyrene nanocomposite membranes polypropylene hollow fiber membranes ceramic membranes zeolite membranes and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments of the present invention prior to or following treatment using a carbon dioxide capture system the feed stream may comprise greater than about 95 vol carbon dioxide. In some embodiments the feed stream may comprise greater than about 96 vol about 97 vol about 98 vol about 99 vol or about 99.9 vol carbon dioxide. In some embodiments of the present invention the feed stream may have a carbon dioxide concentration of between about 90 mole to about 99.9 mole with the balance containing no more than 10 nitrogen and less than 1 HS or COS. In still further embodiments the feed stream may also contain methane ethane and other heavier hydrocarbons.

In some embodiments of the present invention the SOEC feed stream may have a pressure of between about 1 bar and about 20 bars all pressures are absolute pressures . In some embodiments the SOEC feed stream pressure may be about 1.02 bar about 3 bar about 5 bar about 7 bar about 9 bar about 10 bar about 15 bar or about 20 bar. In some embodiments the feed stream may have a pressure of about 1 bar about 1.2 bar about 1.4 bar about 1.6 bar about 1.8 bar about 2.0 bar about 2.2 bar about 2.4 bar about 2.6 bar about 2.8 bar or about 3 bar. In some embodiments of the present invention the preferred pressure of the SOEC and feed gases is about 1.6 bar which may help to mitigate the need for additional downstream compression as a result of system pressure drops.

In some embodiments of the present invention the SOEC feed stream to the fuel electrode may comprise between about 30 mole to about 33 mol of carbon dioxide and between about 60 mole to about 70 mol of water.

In some embodiments of the present invention water may be added to the feed stream comprising carbon dioxide and water after the carbon capture system has purified the source carbon dioxide stream e.g. power plant flue gas natural gas oxy combustion process . In some embodiments of the present invention the water may be added to the feed stream comprising carbon dioxide and water as pressurized steam. In some embodiments of the present invention the steam may be saturated steam at a pressure of between about 1 bar and about 30 bars. In some embodiments the saturated stream pressure may be about 1.02 bar about 3 bar about 5 bar about 7 bar about 9 bar about 10 bar about 15 bar about 20 bar or about 25 bar. In some embodiments the saturated steam pressure may be about 1 bar about 1.2 bar about 1.4 bar about 1.6 bar about 1.8 bar about 2.0 bar about 2.2 bar about 2.4 bar about 2.6 bar about 2.8 bar or about 3 bar. In some embodiments of the present invention the steam is at a temperature between about 10 C. and about 281 C. In some embodiments of the present invention the steam is at about 24 bar and about 225 C. In some embodiments of the present invention the steam may be produced in the gas to liquid process and recycled to the feed preparation step.

In some embodiments of the present invention the feed stream may be heated by a heat exchanger to produce a heated feed stream. In some embodiments of the present invention the heated feed stream may have a final temperature of about 750 C. to about 800 C. The temperature of the heated feed stream may be about 750 C. about 760 C. about 770 C. about 780 C. about 790 C. or about 800 C. In some embodiments of the present invention the feed stream heat exchanger may be a shell and tube spiral wound or any other suitable heat exchanger. The heating medium to heat the feed stream may be a hot flue gas or a combustion gas. Alternatively some or all of the thermal energy addition required by the feed stream may be supplied by a liquid heat transfer fluid such as DowTherm .

In some embodiments of the present invention the air stream may be pressurized to produce a pressurized air stream using fans blowers compressors or a combination thereof. The air compressor may be centrifugal mixed flow axial flow reciprocating rotary screw rotary vane scroll diaphragm compressor or a combination thereof. In some embodiments of the present invention the pressurized air stream may have a pressure between about 1 bar to about 20 bars. In some embodiments the pressurized air stream may have a pressure of about 1 bar about 1.2 bar about 5 bar about 10 bar about 15 bar or about 20 bar. In some embodiments the pressurized air stream may have a pressure of about 1 bar about 1.2 bar about 1.4 bar about 1.6 bar about 1.8 bar about 2.0 bar about 2.2 bar about 2.4 bar about 2.6 bar about 2.8 bar or about 3 bar.

In some embodiments of the present invention the pressurized air stream may be heated by a heat exchanger to produce a heated air stream. In some embodiments of the present invention the heated air stream may have a final temperature of about 750 C. to about 850 C. In some embodiments the final temperature of the heated air stream may be about 750 C. about 760 C. about 770 C. about 780 C. about 790 C. about 800 C. about 810 C. about 820 C. about 830 C. about 840 C. or about 850 C. In some embodiments of the present invention the air stream heat exchanger may be a shell and tube plate fin microchannel spiral wound or any other suitable heat exchanger. The heating medium to heat the air stream may be a hot flue gas or a combustion gas. Alternatively some or all of the thermal energy addition required by the feed stream may be supplied by a liquid heat transfer fluid such as DowTherm .

In some embodiments of the present invention the heated feed stream and the heated air stream may be reacted in a solid oxide electrolytic cell SOEC to produce syngas and an oxygen containing stream. The feed stream may be reacted at a cathode in the SOEC and the air stream may be reacted at an anode of the SOEC where the cathode and anode may be separated by an electrolyte. In some embodiments of the present invention the SOEC may operate at a temperature of about 600 C. to about 900 C. In some embodiments of the present invention the SOEC may operate at a temperature of about 600 C. about 620 C. about 640 C. about 660 C. about 680 C. about 700 C. about 720 C. about 730 C. about 740 C. about 750 C. about 760 C. about 770 C. about 780 C. about 790 C. about 800 C. about 810 C. about 820 C. about 830 C. about 840 C. or about 860 C. about 880 C. or about 900 C. In some embodiments the cathode may operate at a temperature between about 750 C. to about 850 C. and the anode may operate at a temperature between about 750 C. to about 850 C.

In some embodiments of the present invention the SOEC may operate at a pressure between about 1 bar to about 20 bars. In some embodiments the SOEC may operate at a pressure of about 1.02 bar about 3 bar about 5 bar about 7 bar about 9 bar about 10 bar about 15 bar or about 20 bar. In some embodiments the SOEC may operate at a pressure of about 1 bar about 1.2 bar about 1.4 bar about 1.6 bar about 1.8 bar about 2.0 bar about 2.2 bar about 2.4 bar about 2.6 bar about 2.8 bar or about 3 bar. In some embodiments of the present invention the SOEC may operate at a pressure of about 1.6 bar which may help to mitigate the need for additional downstream compression as a result of system pressure drops.

In some embodiments of the present invention the cathode and anode may be constructed of any suitable material including but not limited to La Sr Fe Co O LSCF Sm Sr CoO and Sr doped LaMnOfor the air electrode anode and Ni YSZ Ni ScSZ LaNiO and Ni ZrOfor the fuel electrode cathode . Electrode support materials and functional layers include nickel cermets and other electronic conductors such as SrLa TiO SLT . The electrolyte may be comprised of any suitable material with examples including but not limited to yttria stabilized zirconia YSZ LaSr GaMg O LSGM Sc stabilized zirconia SSZ and doped ceria. SOEC cell architecture includes both electrode and electrolyte supported cell constructions and ceramic or metallic interconnects.

In some embodiments of the present invention the oxygen containing stream may be used to preheat the pressurized air stream to produce a preheated anode gas stream prior to the heating step using the sensible heat of the oxygen containing stream. Preheating may be accomplished in any suitable heat exchanger.

In some embodiments of the present invention the syngas produced by the SOEC may be used to heat the water steam mixed with the feed stream prior to mixing the steam with the feed stream. This heating may utilize the sensible latent heat of the syngas in any suitable heat exchanger.

In some embodiments of the present invention the syngas may be treated to produce a treated syngas. The treating step may comprise recovering the syngas sensible and or latent heat to preheat the water fed to the feed stream. This preheating may be accomplished in a heat exchanger. The heat exchanger may be any suitable heat exchanger including but not limited to a shell and tube tube in tube plate fin microchannel or a spiral wound heat exchanger. In some embodiments of the present invention the treating step may include a steam Rankine cycle to generate electricity. In some embodiments of the present invention the treating step may include a separating step to remove condensable components from the syngas wherein the condensable components may comprise at least water to produce dry syngas. Any suitable condenser including but not limited to a shell and tube or plate and frame condenser may be used for the separating step. In some embodiments of the present invention the condensable components may be condensed by cooling the syngas to a temperature of less than about 50 C. about 48 C. about 46 C. about 44 C. about 42 C. about 40 C. about 38 C. about 36 C. or about 34 C. to produce the dry syngas. In some further embodiments of the present invention the syngas may be cooled to a temperature of about 30 C. to about 50 C. The cooling medium used to condense may be any suitable cooling medium for example cooling tower water chilled water or refrigerant. In some embodiments of the present invention the treating step may include compressing the dry syngas using a compressor. The syngas compressor may be centrifugal mixed flow axial flow reciprocating rotary screw rotary vane scroll diaphragm compressor or a combination thereof. In some embodiments of the present invention the pressurized syngas may have a pressure of greater than about 30 bar about 35 bar about 40 bar about 45 bar about 50 bar or about 60 bar. In some embodiments of the present invention the treating step may include various heat transfer steps including but not limited to heating the pressurized syngas using a flue gas or combustion gas. In some embodiments of the present invention the syngas may be heated using a flue gas or combustion gas between about 300 C. to about 1000 C. In some embodiments the syngas may be heated to at least about 180 C. about 190 C. about 200 C. about 210 C. about 220 C. about 230 C. about 240 C. about 250 C. about 260 C. about 270 C. about 280 C. about 290 C. about 300 C. about 310 C. about 320 C. about 330 C. about 340 C. or about 350 C. In some further embodiments of the present invention the syngas may be heated to at least about 180 C. about 190 C. about 200 C. about 210 C. about 220 C. about 230 C. about 240 C. or about 250 C. In addition the pressurized syngas may provide heat to other parts of the up and downstream process. In some further embodiments of the present invention the pressurized syngas may be used to generate electricity in a second steam Rankine cycle step.

In some embodiments of the present invention the pressurized syngas and or the treated syngas may be converted to produce liquid fuels. In some embodiments of the present invention the syngas may be converted to liquid fuels including but not limited to diesel jet gasoline and light fuel gas by Fisher Tropsch methods. In some embodiments of the present invention the Fisher Tropsch method may comprise a Fisher Tropsch synthesis reactor a distillation step wherein the distillation system may produce intermediate streams selected from the group consisting of a naptha stream a middle distillate stream a wax stream and combinations thereof. A naptha stream may be processed in a naptha hydrotreating step to create a hydrotreated stream wherein some or all of the hydrotreated stream may be directed to an isomerization step to create an isomerized stream wherein another portion of the hydrotreated stream may be directed to a catalytic reforming step to create a reformed stream wherein both the hydrotreated stream and the reformed stream may be combined to produce a gasoline stream. The middle distillate stream may also be hydrotreated in a distillation hydrotreating step to produce a hydrotreated distillate stream. The wax stream may processed in a wax hydrocracking step to produce a hydrocracked stream. The hydrotreated distillate stream and the hydrocracked stream may be combined to produce a diesel stream. Any one or combination of the Fisher Tropsch synthesis reactor distillation step naptha hydrotreating step distillation hydrotreating step wax hydrocracking step isomerization step and or catalytic reforming step may produce a light fuel gas LFG which may be collected and recycled to the LFG burner to provide the heat requirements of the SOEC system.

In some embodiments of the present invention the Fisher Tropsch synthesis reactor may comprise a fixed bed reactor utilizing a solid catalyst. The Fisher Tropsch synthesis reactor may comprise a slurry reactor. In some embodiments the catalyst may comprise a transition metal. In some embodiments the catalyst may be selected from the group consisting of cobalt iron nickel and ruthenium.

In some embodiments of the present invention preparing the feed stream may comprise removing hydrogen sulfide from the feed stream to produce a scrubbed feed stream. The hydrogen sulfide removal step may be performed prior to or following the carbon dioxide capture step. In some embodiments of the present invention hydrogen sulfide may be scrubbed from the feed stream using a liquid oxidation process such as LO CAT . This may result in a scrubbed feed stream with HS concentrations ranging from about 10 ppm to about 100 ppm HS. In some embodiments of the present invention the scrubbed feed stream may be polished utilizing a zinc oxide bed to produce a polished feed stream. In some embodiments the polished feed stream may have a final hydrogen sulfide concentration of between about 0.1 ppm to about 1 ppm. In some embodiments of the present invention the polished feed stream may have a final hydrogen sulfide concentration of less than about 10 ppm about 9 ppm about 8 ppm about 7 ppm about 6 ppm about 5 ppm about 4 ppm about 3 ppm about 2 ppm or about 1 ppm. In some further embodiments of the present invention the polished feed stream may have a final hydrogen sulfide concentration of less than about 1 ppm. In some embodiments of the present invention the feed stream may first be treated with a liquid oxidation process to remove about most of the hydrogen sulfide followed by a polishing zinc oxide step to reduce the hydrogen sulfide present in the feed stream to less than about 1 ppm.

In some embodiments of the present invention preparing the feed stream may comprise mixing hydrogen with the feed stream scrubbed feed stream polished feed stream or a combination thereof to produce an enriched feed stream. The hydrogen addition to the carbon dioxide and water may extend the life of the SOEC s cathode and may increase the reaction rate of the electrolysis reaction of steam to hydrogen. In some embodiments of the present invention the hydrogen addition may be derived from a recycle stream separated from the syngas produced by the SOEC. In some embodiments of the present invention the hydrogen may be provided by an independent supply source unassociated with the present invention.

In some embodiments of the present invention the treated syngas may be split in a splitting step to produce a syngas side stream and a main syngas stream. In some embodiments of the present invention between about 2 mass to about 5 mass of the treated syngas may be directed to the syngas side stream. In some embodiments less than about 10 mass about 9 mass about 8 mass about 7 mass about 6 mass about 5 mass about 4 mass about 3 mass about 2 mass or about 1 mass of the treated syngas may be directed to the syngas side stream. In some further embodiments of the present invention about 5 mass about 4 mass about 3 mass about 2 mass or about 1 mass of the treated syngas may be directed to the syngas side stream. In some further embodiments of the present invention less than about 2 mass of the treated syngas may be directed to the syngas side stream. The remainder of the treated syngas may be directed to the main syngas stream for converting to liquid fuels e.g. by Fisher Tropsch processing .

In some embodiments of the present invention the syngas side stream may be treated in a water gas shift reactor to produce a shifted syngas stream wherein the reactor may catalyze the water gas shift reaction to increase the content of hydrogen present in the shifted syngas stream relative to the hydrogen content of the syngas side stream.

In some embodiments of the present invention the water gas shift WGS reactor may comprise using a solid catalyst selected from the group consisting of a transition metal transition metal oxides and mixtures thereof or any other suitable catalyst. The WGS catalyst may comprise iron oxides. The WGS reactor may comprise a single stage or a two stage process. The WGS reaction may be completed at relatively low temperatures in the presence of a catalyst with temperatures between about 150 C. to about 1000 C. In some embodiments the WGS reaction may be completed without a catalyst at elevated temperatures between about 500 C. and about 1500 C. In some embodiments of the present invention the WGS reaction may be completed at pressures ranging from about atmospheric pressure to about 30 bar.

In some embodiments of the present invention some or all of the water contained in the product from the WGS is removed to form a dried shifted syngas stream. Methods for removing the water include but are not limited to condensation using a heat exchanger.

In some further embodiments of the present invention the dried shifted syngas stream may be separated such that some or all of the dried shifted syngas stream s hydrogen content may be removed to produce a hydrogen recycle stream. In some embodiments of the present invention between about 3 mass to about 5 mass of the dried shifted syngas stream may be separated to create the hydrogen recycle stream. In some embodiments greater than about 3 mass about 4 mass or about 5 mass of the dried shifted syngas stream may be separated to create the hydrogen recycle stream.

Any suitable separation may be used to separate the hydrogen from the dried shifted syngas stream including but not limited to pressure swing adsorption PSA and membrane technology. Hybrid membrane PSA systems may also be used.

In some embodiments of the present invention PSA may be used to produce a hydrogen recycle stream. In some embodiments of the present invention the dried shifted syngas stream feeding a PSA system has a hydrogen molar concentration greater than about 70 mol .

In some embodiments of the present invention between about 70 mass to about 80 mass of the purified hydrogen stream from the PSA may be utilized to create the hydrogen recycle stream. In some embodiments greater than about 70 mass about 80 mass about 90 mass or about 95 mass of the purified hydrogen stream from the PSA may be utilized to create the hydrogen recycle stream. In some embodiments of the present invention the hydrogen recycle stream may be directed to the feed stream e.g. the feed stream scrubbed feed stream polished feed stream or heated feed stream .

An aspect of the present invention is a method for producing liquid fuels comprising preparing a feed stream comprising carbon dioxide and water removing hydrogen sulfide by scrubbing the feed stream utilizing a liquid oxidation process to form a scrubbed feed stream polishing the scrubbed feed stream utilizing a zinc oxide bed to produce a polished feed stream heating the polished feed stream to produce a heated feed stream wherein the heated feed stream has a temperature of between about 750 C. to about 850 C. compressing an air stream to a pressure of between about 1.0 bar to about 2.0 bar to produce a pressurized air stream heating the pressurized air stream to produce a heated air stream wherein the heated air stream has a temperature of between about 750 C. to about 850 C. reacting the heated feed stream and the heated air stream in a solid oxide electrolytic cell to form a syngas and an oxygen containing stream separating condensable components from the syngas to produce a dry syngas wherein the condensable components comprise at least water and wherein condensing comprises cooling the syngas to a temperature of less than about 40 C. compressing the dry syngas to produce a pressurized syngas wherein the pressurized syngas has a pressure of at least about 35 bar heating the dry syngas to produce a heated syngas wherein the heated syngas has a temperature of at least about 220 C. splitting the dry syngas to produce a syngas side stream and a main syngas stream wherein the syngas side stream comprises less than about 4 mass of the dry syngas stream and the main syngas stream comprises about the remainder of the heated syngas shifting the syngas side stream utilizing a water gas shift reactor to produce a shifted syngas stream with a hydrogen content higher than the hydrogen content of the syngas side stream separating some or all of the hydrogen content from the shifted syngas stream to produce a hydrogen recycle stream feeding the hydrogen recycle stream to the feed stream heating step and converting the main syngas stream to produce the liquid fuels.

In some embodiments of the present invention at least some of the light fuel gas produced by the syngas converting process e.g. to produce liquid fuels by Fisher Tropsch processing may be combusted in a burner to produce a first combustion gas. In some further embodiments of the present invention some or all of the sensible and or latent heat of the first combustion gas may be used to preheat the polished feed stream to produce the heated feed stream and a second combustion gas. The first combustion gas may be directed to a first heat exchanger to heat the polished feed stream. The second combustion gas may then be directed to a second heat exchanger to heat the preheated air stream to form a heated air stream and a third combustion gas. The third combustion gas may then be directed to a third heat exchanger to preheat the scrubbed feed stream to form a preheated feed stream and a fourth combustion gas prior to the feed stream polishing step. The fourth combustion gas may then be directed to a fourth heat exchanger to heat the pressurized syngas to form the heated syngas and a fifth combustion gas. In one embodiment the fifth combustion may be discharged to atmosphere. In another embodiment the fifth combustion gas may be directed to the carbon dioxide capture system. The first second third and fourth heat exchangers may be of any suitable design these specifics known to one skilled in the art and not specified herein.

In some embodiments of the present invention the oxygen containing stream may be directed to the light fuel gas burner for combustion. In some embodiments of the present invention the light fuel gas burner may be supplied with compressed air. In some further embodiments of the present invention a single compressor may compress the air stream feeding the SOEC and the air stream feeding the light fuel gas burner. The fraction of air needed to combust the light fuel gas may be metered to the burner as needed. The specific amounts of light fuel gas and air needed in the light fuel gas burner may be such that the SOEC feed stream and air stream temperatures may be at the desired set points for the electrolytic reactions.

In some embodiments the first second third fourth and fifth combustion stream may be the same stream or may be different streams.

The air fed to the upstream process may comprise two separate air streams wherein the first air stream may be compressed utilizing a compressor and may be fed to the LFG burner . The second air stream may be compressed utilizing another compressor . It is understood that a single unit may be used for example a single compressor where the fluid exiting the unit may be directed to multiple subsequent units. Air exiting compressor may be heated in heat exchanger and heat exchanger . Thermal energy remaining from heat exchanger may be used to heat the compressed air in heat exchanger . The preheated air may be provided to the SOEC at the anode . also illustrates that steam Rankine cycle systems may be utilized to capture some of the syngas sensible and or latent heat and the LFG combustion gas sensible and or latent heat to produce electricity see heat exchangers and respectively . The LFG combustion gas sensible and or latent heat may also be employed for Fisher Tropsch upgrading utilizing heat exchanger thus providing some of the heat required for the Fisher Tropsch processing steps e.g. the catalytic reformer of .

Some or all of the stream exiting the flash drum may be provided to a distillation column wherein the distillation column may produce a naptha stream a middle distillate stream a wax stream. A naptha stream may be combined with hydrogen gas and processed in a naptha hydrotreating system to create a hydrotreated stream. Some or all of the hydrotreated stream may be directed to an isomerization system to create an isomerized stream. The isomerized stream may be combined with other streams in the gas storage tank . Another portion of the hydrotreated stream may be directed to a catalytic reforming system to create a reformed stream wherein the hydrotreated stream and the treated hydrocracking stream may be combined in the catalytic reformer . The reformate exiting the catalytic reformer may be provided to the gas storage tank . The middle distillate stream may also be hydrotreated in a distillation hydrotreating system to produce a hydrotreated distillate stream. LFG s exiting the distillation hydrotreating system may be provided to the LFG mixer . The hydrotreated distillate stream may be provided to the diesel storage system . The wax stream exiting the distillation column may processed in a wax hydrocracking system to produce a hydrocracked stream. Some or all of the hydrocracked stream may be directed to the diesel storage tank . Some or all of the hydrocracked stream may be provided to the isomerization system . Some or all of the hydrocracked stream may be provided to the catalytic reformer . The distillation column naptha hydrotreating system the distillation hydrotreating system wax hydrocracking system isomerization system and or catalytic reforming system may produce LFG which may be collected and recycled to the LFG burner to provide the heat requirements of the SOEC system or may be combined in the LFG mixer .

Also referring to the hydrogen utilized in the naptha hydrotreating distillate hydrotreating and the wax hydrocracking may be obtained from the PSA separation unit . The treatment of the middle distillate stream and naphtha stream in addition to the treatment in the isomerization system and the catalytic reforming system are optional. Alternatively the middle distillate and naphtha streams can simply go to storage for transfer to a large scale refinery whereas the wax may be processed on site into diesel.

Air is provided to a compressor . The compressed air may be provided to a burner and or a heat exchanger . The heat exchanger may use heat from the oxygen stream produced in the SOEC at the anode to heat the compressed air. The oxygen stream is ultimately provided to the LFG burner . The heated air stream may be provided to the SOEC at the anode to produce the oxygen stream.

LFG produced in other processes e.g. streams described with reference to may be fed to the LFG burner . Heated gas leaving the LFG burner may be used to heat one or more of the heat exchangers in the system.

Table 1 provides estimated temperatures for streams at different points in the system . One having skill in the art would understand that the temperatures pressures and flow rates may be altered without deviating from the invention. Thus the values listed in Table 1 are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. These process conditions may vary significantly around the values reported in the stream tables by as much as 20 and or as described elsewhere in this disclosure.

Table 2 provides estimated temperatures pressures and flow rates for streams at different locations in the system . One having skill in the art would understand that the temperatures pressures and flow rates may be altered without deviating from the invention. Thus the values listed in Table 2 are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. These process conditions may vary significantly around the values reported in the stream tables by as much as 20 and or as described elsewhere in this disclosure.

The foregoing examples of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. Furthermore these examples are not intended to limit the invention to the form disclosed herein. Consequently variations and modifications commensurate with the teachings of the description of the invention and the skill or knowledge of the relevant art are within the scope of the present invention. The specific embodiments described in the examples provided herein are intended to further explain the best mode known for practicing the invention and to enable others skilled in the art to utilize the invention in such or other embodiments and with various modifications required by the particular applications or uses of the present invention. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include alternative embodiments to the extent permitted by the prior art.

