---

title: Phase resolved shearography for remote sensing
abstract: A shearography system and method provide advances allowing for rapid processing to produce shearograms which provide surface motion information which may be helpful in multiple fields. For instance, amongst virtually endless possibilities, the system and method may allow for detection of underground structures or ordnance and or be used in the medical field to provide non-contact sensing of a person's internal structures or movements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09476700&OS=09476700&RS=09476700
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 09476700
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141111
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 902 970 filed Nov. 12 2013 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The invention was made with the United States Government assistance under Contract No. W909MY 11 C 0074 awarded by the Department of the Army and Contract No. N00014 07 C 0292 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to remote sensing and more particularly to phase resolved shearography for remote sensing.

The prior art discloses various means for detecting buried objects for instance non phase resolved NPR shearography and laser doppler vibrometry. Non phase resolved shearography is unable to resolve the phase of an acousto seismic signal and requires the use of high power laser sources. This limitation means that a inversion methods cannot be applied to the output to identify scattering sources or targets of interest in the acousto seismic signal and b this type of system is impractical for aircraft and other fast moving platforms that require large area coverage rates.

There is a need however to remotely measure the full phase and amplitude information of small scale acousto seismic vibrations in order to detect the presence of buried objects e.g. mines tunnels etc. or for other purposes. This remote sensing information may need to be collected with a large area coverage rate and at a safe standoff distance.

In shearography a target surface part or area being observed is illuminated by an expanding laser beam and two time sequential images are captured of the target surface part or area with an image shearing camera. The first image is taken of the surface and the second image is taken of the same surface a short time thereafter during deformation or loading of the surface. The two images taken are processed together to produce a third image a shearogram showing a fringe pattern that depicts the gradient of the displacement of the surface due to some loading of the surface between the first and second images.

More particularly shearography is an optical measuring technique using coherent light for the interferometric observation of the surfaces typically under non destructive thermal or mechanical loading to distinguish between structural information and anomalies of the surfaces or parts due to loading such as thermal or mechanical loading. The two images are each laterally displaced images taken of the surface of the part being observed and the two images are coherently superposed. The lateral displacement is called the shear of the images. The superposition of the two images is called a shearogram which is an interferogram of an object wave with the sheared surface wave as a reference wave.

The absolute difference of two shearograms recorded at different physical loading conditions of the target surface part or area is an interference fringe pattern which is directly correlated to the difference in the deformation state of the target area between taking the two images thereof. In contrast to holographic interferometry the fringe pattern indicates the slope of deformation rather than the deformation itself. Defects inside the target part will affect the local surface deformation induced by the loading and result in a disturbance of the loading fringes that are detected.

The resultant difference images always exhibit a very noisy structure. This is due to what are called speckles. Speckles are statistical interference patterns which occur after reflection of a coherent wave off a rough surface giving the image a grainy structure. Regarding shearography the speckles are the carrier of information coding the wave field and surface state information respectively and giving rise to interference fringe patterns. However the grainy nature of the speckles is conserved and significantly decreases contrast and signal to noise ratio of the difference images.

The difference images typically exhibit strong noise and low contrast that require further image processing. This further image processing can be either image improvement or image evaluation. The goal is to remove speckle noise and to increase fringe contrast in order to improve the visibility of the fringes.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 717 577 incorporated in full herein by reference provides a method of collecting shearography data for a subject target from a moving platform such as an aircraft surface craft handheld device or moving vehicle. In short said patent provides a process in which during movement of the moving platform two onboard laser transmitters and an onboard optical receiver are operated in a manner that they appear to be stationary. To capture the pair of images specklegrams required for shearography the first laser transmitter transmits a first laser pulse toward the ground while positioned at an angle with respect to the ground. The resulting first ground image is captured by the optical receiver. A very short time thereafter a second laser transmitter transmits a second laser pulse toward the ground at the same angle. This occurs because the position of the second laser transmitter has been adjusted according to the speed of the moving platform so that during the time between the first and second laser pulse transmissions the second laser transmitter has moved a distance by the motion of the aircraft or other moving platform so that the second laser transmitter is at the same position during the second laser transmission that the first laser transmitter was during the first laser transmission.

The present method addresses the above noted need and provides improvements which may be used in conjunction with the method of the above noted U.S. Pat. No. 8 717 577. The present system and method may also be used in a variety of other contexts as noted further below.

In one aspect the invention may provide a method comprising the steps of reflecting sequentially off of a target surface first second and third laser beams so that the first laser beam is reflected off of the target surface when the target surface is under a first load to produce a first reflected laser beam image the second laser beam is reflected off of the target surface when the target surface is under a second load which is different from the first load to produce a second reflected laser beam image and the third laser beam is reflected off of the target surface when the target surface is under a third load which is different from each of the first and second loads to produce a third reflected laser beam image phase stepping the first second and third reflected laser beam images with a shearing interferometer to respective phases and of a laser beam wavelength collecting with shearography equipment first second and third specklegrams of the target surface based respectively on the first second and third reflected laser beam images and comparing the first second and third specklegrams to one another to produce a first shearogram to ascertain surface changes of the target surface.

In another aspect the invention may provide a method comprising the steps of reflecting sequentially off of a target surface first second third and fourth laser beams to respectively produce first second third and fourth reflected laser beam images phase stepping the first second third and fourth reflected laser beam images with a shearing interferometer to respective phases and of a laser beam wavelength wherein cos cos and cos cos collecting with shearography equipment first second third and fourth specklegrams of the target surface based respectively on the first second third and fourth reflected laser beam images and comparing the first second third and fourth specklegrams to one another to produce a shearogram to ascertain surface changes of the target surface wherein the shearogram is based on a phase resolved shearogram equation Shearexpressed as a ratio of differences of specklegrams 

In another aspect the invention may provide a method comprising the steps of reflecting sequentially off of a target surface first second third and fourth laser beams to respectively produce first second third and fourth reflected laser beam images phase stepping the first second third and fourth reflected laser beam images with a shearing interferometer to respective phases and of a laser beam wavelength collecting with shearography equipment first second third and fourth specklegrams of the target surface based respectively on the first second third and fourth reflected laser beam images comparing the first second and third specklegrams to one another to produce a first shearogram to ascertain surface changes of the target surface and comparing the fourth specklegram and at least two of the first second and third specklegrams to one another to produce a second shearogram to ascertain surface changes of the target surface.

Although a Michelson interferometer is suitable for the present process a variety of shearing interferometers may be used such that the interferometer is configured to collect multiple shearographic images with controlled phase differences between the arms of the interferometer. A shearing configuration of any interferometer type is usable. For example and without limitation suitable interferometers may include glass plate or glass wedge interferometers air wedge interferometers Mach Zender interferometers and so forth. Multi port versions of any type of shearing interferometer may also be used.

A target excitation device may be provided in various forms to non destructively deform or load target . Device may be an onboard excitation device A mounted on moving platform or may be a separate excitation device B which is separate from or not on moving platform . Device A may be for instance a sound driver or acoustic source or speaker capable of producing or emitting sound waves for example a relatively high power low frequency sound wave which is directed from moving platform apparatus toward the ground or other target surface to vibrate deform or load the ground or other target . Separate device B may be for example a seismic thumper which may be in the form of a thumper truck which may also be known as a vibroseis truck or vibe truck. A seismic thumper may impact or be directed toward the ground or other target to likewise vibrate deform or load the ground or other target as illustrated by waves or vibrations . The use of shearagraphy equipment allows for the discernment of underground anomalies such as underground ordnance or landmines including improvised explosive devices or IED or other subsurface or underground objects or structures such as rooms tunnels pipes and so forth.

In the basic operation of shearography apparatus one of the one or more laser transmitters transmits emits or shoots a laser beam Arrow B which impacts a target surface or target area and is reflected from area as a reflected laser beam image Arrow C back to apparatus into beam splitter onto mirrors and and into camera which captures the reflected image in two copies which are laterally displaced sheared image copies and combined to form a specklegram. The reflected laser beam images and specklegrams are collected and stored or saved in a memory of CPU which includes a computer program of the shearography system which is configured to process the specklegrams to produce a shearogram from which can be discerned surface changes of target surface and corresponding subsurface structures or movements. The computer program run by CPU is configured to calculate the various relevant equations discussed below in order to effect the methods discussed herein.

One shearography method is shown in . As shown in block the method may include reflecting sequentially off of a target surface such as 15 at least three laser beams when the target surface is respectively under different loads and different surface states to produce respective reflected laser beam images. This method may then include the steps of phase stepping the reflected laser beam images with a shearing interferometer block collecting specklegrams of the target surface based respectively on the reflected laser beam images block and comparing the specklegrams to one another to create or produce a shearogram to ascertain surface changes of the target surface block . The shearing interferometer of shearography equipment is configured with stepping mirror or another phase shifting or phase stepping optical element to phase shift or phase step the reflected laser beams images. Typically three or four laser beam emissions or shots are used to respectively produce three or four reflected laser beam images which in turn are used to respectively produce three or four specklegrams. It is noted that for a given set of the laser beams e.g. three or four used to derive a given specklegram the laser beam wavelength of each laser beam is the same for that given set. A set of three specklegrams may be processed or compared to one another to produce a given shearogram or a set of four specklegrams may be processed or compared to one another to produce a given shearogram. This process may be repeated as many times as desired to produce as many shearograms as desired over time.

Thus for instance a first shearogram may provide information indicative of surface changes such as surface relief changes of the target surface at a given time when a given first set of laser beams used to create a specklegram are reflected off of the target surface a second shearogram may provide information indicative of surface changes of the target surface at a subsequent given time when a given second subsequent set of laser beams used to create a specklegram are reflected off of the target surface a third shearogram may provide information indicative of surface changes of the target surface at a subsequent given time when a given third subsequent set of laser beams used to create a specklegram are reflected off of the target surface and so forth. The first second third etc shearograms thus provide surface change information at time intervals so that the observer of the shearograms can discern surface changes of the target surface over time which may even occur in a movie format in essentially real time. Various aspects of the method or methods at issue are discussed in greater detail hereafter.

When onboard excitation device A is a sound driver device A is operated to insonify target area thereby deforming or loading target . Separate device B may also be used. In either case the target surface is deformed or loaded. It is noted that other sources e.g. ambient excitations of deformation or vibration may also be used to deform or load the target surface wherein such sources are not controlled by the user or investigator. Thus for instance any natural source of vibration may be used as an excitation providing a given load on the target surface. While surface is thus deformed or loaded with a first load one of laser transmitters transmits or shoots a first laser beam Arrow B onto target area such that the first laser beam is reflected Arrow C and sheared and phase stepped shifted via the shearing interferometer to produce an image which is captured by camera and saved or stored. Very shortly typically a few milliseconds after producing the first load and after the first transmission of the laser beam device A or B or another source may be operated to similarly deform or load target with a second load which is different from the first load. While surface is thus deformed or loaded with the second load one of laser transmitters likewise transmits or shoots a second laser beam Arrow B onto target area so that the second laser beam is likewise reflected Arrow C and sheared and phase stepped via the interferometer to produce an image which is captured by camera and saved or stored. This process of loading target area with different loads and transmitting laser beams onto target area may occur multiple times at very brief time intervals again typically a few milliseconds between a given pair of loads and a given pair of laser shots . Thus for instance shortly after producing the second load and after the second laser beam transmission device or another source may load target with a third load which is different from the first and second loads so that while surface is loaded with the third load one of laser transmitters transmits onto target area a third laser beam which is reflected and sheared and phase stepped via the interferometer to produce a third image captured by camera and saved or stored and shortly after producing the third load and after the third laser beam transmission device or another source may load target with a fourth load which is different from the first second and third loads so that while surface is loaded with the fourth load one of laser transmitters transmits onto target area a fourth laser beam which is reflected and sheared and phase stepped via the interferometer to produce a fourth image captured by camera and saved or stored. This process may continue although three or four laser shots and captured images are typically sufficient to produce a given shearogram with the desired information as to a certain target area of a given size. Nonetheless this process may continue with respect to a larger target area in order to produce as many shearograms as needed to obtain the desired information. As noted or suggested above the time between a given pair of laser shots and between a given pair of loads may be very short. The time between laser beam shots may be less than the wavelength of an acoustic excitation or sound wave. While this may vary in many cases three four or five laser beam shots may occur within five or ten milliseconds.

This system and method are set up in a manner which allows for obtaining shearograms without using unloaded specklegrams. Rather the shearography equipment may be used to produce a plurality of laser emissions to the ground or other target surface while that surface is loaded by an excitation device controlled or uncontrolled such that all of the specklegrams may be loaded specklegrams. The present method is discussed in greater detail further below after additional background information on shearography is discussed to provide additional context for the invention.

The Sheared Specklegram Equation is shown in Table 1. We have three unknowns in each Specklegram background intensity I interferogram contrast and sheared phase difference .

The goal is to recover the information encoded in the signal phase including the sign of the phase. Details concerning the terms in the Specklegram Equation are shown in Table 2.

It will be understood that each specklegram image has three independent sets of unknowns the intensity I the signal phase and the random speckle phase . If we had full control of the acoustic source we could hold the intensity I and the signal phase constant by always pulsing the laser at the same phase of the acoustic excitation. We could then vary in time three separate laser shots to create three equations to solve for all of the unknowns. This is the usual goal of phase stepped shearography. Relevant equations are in Table 4.

Unfortunately for stand off buried object detection we do not have complete control of the acoustic excitation. Acoustic phase and amplitude are usually stochastic and frequency may also be uncertain. We can still obtain the rate of change of the signal phase including sign by using basic temporal phase stepping hardware with some algorithmic twists. The procedure is further described in Tables 5 6 and 7.

One skilled in the art will understand the general assumptions noted in Table 3. For instance the shot noise being much less than the speckle noise generally means that the laser speckle is the major source of noise in the imagery. One skilled in the art can determine this readily by examining the imagery and applying standard statistical computations. With respect to the laser interpulse time being much less than speckle decorrelation time the laser interpulse time needs to be short enough for at least three laser shots and preferably four laser shots to be acquired in less than the speckle decorrelation time. Thus a laser interpulse time less than or the speckle decorrelation time is typically adequate. Shorter interpulse times are acceptable but not required.

It is noted that the terms decorrelation time correlation time and coherence time may be used interchangeably. The correlation time is the time over which two samples separated by some time t of a laser beam which is perfectly coherent appear to lose coherence. When t

As to the signal spatial wavelengths being much greater than the speckle sizes this depends on the high level requirements probability of detection probability of recognition etc. for the mission for which the system is being designed. Typical detection requirements would sample the surface at a minimum spatial frequency corresponding to Nyquist sampling of the wavelengths of interest. Finer sampling would yield more accurate estimates of surface vibration or motion of the target. Thus the system designer would trade accuracy for area coverage since the number of pixels per second that can be collected is usually a constraint. Regarding the signal spatial wavelengths being much greater than the shear distance this is not a hard and fast rule. The ideal distance depends on how the target surface is vibrating. If it is vibrating locally for example sand over a resonating cavity the ideal shear distance is less than the diameter of the cavity. For travelling sinusoidal surface waves the ideal shear distance is one half of the wavelength. In both cases shorter shear distances can be used. For longer shear distances information can still be extracted though some information may be aliased from high spatial frequencies into lower spatial frequencies. A system designer skilled in the art would determine how much aliasing is tolerable and choose the shear distances accordingly.

A first specklegram is represented in Table 6 as s1 a second specklegram as s2 a third specklegram as s3 and a fourth specklegram as s4 . Similar representations are used elsewhere in the present application and may also simply be respectively s1 s2 s3 and s4 etc.

We can invert the matrix equations in Table 7 in groups of three to eliminate I and obtaining relationships between our measured speckle interferograms and the phases of the ground motion. The set of equations looks under determined but it is usually not. There is a dispersion relationship between the spatial and temporal frequencies and we have hundreds of independent spatial measurements. Thus we can obtain complete information up to the temporal Nyquist frequency t .

Given four phase stepped specklegrams collected sequentially at time t t tand t the speckle phase intensity and contrast can be eliminated in favor of the signal phases yielding three equations shown in Table 8.

Two of these equations are identities. Only the one containing specklegram s2 conveys useful information.

The primary uses of the remote detection of buried object such as mines and IED and the remote detection of buried structures such as underground rooms and tunnels . Other uses include non contact sensing of accousto seismic vibrations for other applications including investigation of properties to the transmitting medium. Since the technique is sensitive to extremely small surface amplitude changes there are likely many other applications. Including the possible real time measurement of small surface changes i.e. the development of oxidation layers or biofilms .

If the amplitudes of the ground motion or target motion are much less than the wavelength of the light then the equations in Table 9 apply.

The significance of this result is that the usual phase stepped shearography equation see Table 4 yields a phase which is a sum of the signal and the speckle phases. This random phase dominates the noise in shearogram images and adds significant processing burden to signal recovery process. It will be understood that our process and algorithm has eliminated or essentially eliminated the random speckle phase. This not only greatly reduces the processing burden but it also greatly improves the signal to noise ratio SNR of the recovered signal.

As shown in Table 13 multiple formulations of the phase resolved PR shearogram equation are possible. These formulations represent alternative phase offsets between the sampling system and the ground vibrations. When these alternate shearogram formulations are used together the net result is that the ground oscillations are sampled at multiple phase offsets.

The minimum number of specklegrams needed to do phase resolved processing is three. Shearin Table 13 for instance only uses three specklegrams s1 s2 and s3 to produce a shearogram. These three specklegrams have phase mirror positions of 0 2 3 and 4 3 radians respectively or are otherwise phase stepped to those phases . Shearin Table 13 uses four specklegrams with respective mirror positions of 0 2 3 4 3 and 0 radians. Shearwill have much less speckle noise than Shear especially for very small surface motion amplitudes. Either algorithm will output a signal proportional to the ground surface motion or target surface motion with a sample rate dependent relative phase lag of up to radians.

Before providing additional details concerning the present method we now broaden the discussion of basic concepts of shearography. Each specklegram or specklegram image represents a combination of two images which pass through separate arms of a shearing interferometer before being combined and recorded on a focal plane. A shearing interferometer operates by using a beam splitter or other optical element to make copies of an incoming light field. An optical shearing device such as a tilted mirror shear plate or other element known in the art shifts the copies relative to each other such that a pixel representing location x y in one copy appears at a point x x y in another copy. These two light fields are identical other than the location shift. The relatively shifted copies of the light field are optically recombined and recorded on a focal plane creating an image called a sheared speckle gram. Because the illumination is coherent and the surface being illuminated is microscopically rough the reflected light field has intensities and phases containing random fluctuations from point to point so that the recorded image contains intensity fluctuations called speckles. Speckles are random from point to point in an image with an intensity which is influenced both by the deterministic geometry of the area under investigation and by statistical fluctuations. The statistical fluctuations have a time dependence which is characterized by a correlation time scale . The correlation time is determined by the imaging conditions and can be several seconds long. The shearing interferometer is operated to record a sequence of specklegram images at times t t t t etc. which are separated by a time less than . Under these conditions the statistical components of speckle are nearly identical between the specklegram images so that the jspecklegram image can be expressed as 

The shear distance vector x y is selected so that the optical phase difference x y t can vary significantly with time in the presence of deterministic effects such as surface vibrations refractive index changes thermally induced deformations and other physically or chemically induced changes over time. The effects causing optical phase differences are commonly referred to as loads and their absence is commonly referred to as an unloaded condition. The loads need not be mechanical they can be induced by chemical electrical thermal or any phenomena capable of changing optical path length differences between points separated by x y in the material being imaged. For the specific case of a vibrating opaque surface the optical phase difference is given in radians by 

To simplify the mathematical expressions in the rest of this discussion the notation will be simplified as follows The symbol x y refers to the noise image array of the random speckle x y the symbol refers to the array of controlled phase steps x y t introduced at time t usually an array having the same value for all pixels x y the symbol s refers to the jsheared specklegram image I x y t and x y t will simply be referred to as x y t since the shear distances are not typically varied within a sequence of specklegram images.

The prior current state of the art continues now with a focus on phase stepped shearography. The goal of the analysis of specklegram images is to estimate the signal x y t with as little error as possible introduced by the noise terms I and . Inspection of Equation 1 above shows that the terms Iand can be removed by computing ratios of differences of specklegrams. For example 

The ratios of cosines in Equation 5 can vary randomly between and provide little information about the signal phases. Standard phase stepped shearography addresses this by introducing specific values for the controlled phases and synchronizes the specklegram collection with loading conditions. For a given loading condition multiple specklegrams are collected with different s. For example consider a condition with a load Load A such that x y t x y is the same for all specklegrams. Then Equation 5 becomes 

If the signal phase varies with time too quickly for quasi static operation then the load must be controlled or predicted in such a way that the controlled phases are synchronized with the signal phase so that sets of specklegrams known to be at the same loading condition can be acquired. For example if the surface loading varies periodically with a period T then acquiring specklegrams with phases and at time T T T and T 2T respectively would yield specklegrams for Load A and acquiring specklegrams with phases and at time T T T and T 2T respectively would yield specklegrams for Load B.

The requirement that the controlled phases in the shearography system be synchronized with the loading conditions and that at least two groups of three specklegrams be used to construct a shearogram is a significant limiter of performance for very dynamic conditions in which the investigator cannot control or predict the loading phases of the area being investigated. Examples include imaging in situations in which dwell times are limited by hazardous conditions as in a combat situation or in which the excitation causing the loading is transient and not controlled by the investigator. One alternative is to not use phase stepping and to construct shearograms by differencing specklegrams acquired under loading conditions with all of the interferometer phases etc held constant that is with no phase stepping at all. It is well known in the art that the resulting differences of specklegrams sj si will yield very noisy estimates of the differences between loading conditions typically requiring many repeated measurements to achieve high sensitivity again limiting the performance of the measurement system for dynamic or uncontrolled phenomena.

The system method presented here allows operation of a shearing interferometer with phase stepping in a novel manner which allows for dynamic operation. Computing a highly sensitive estimate of the signal phase requires only four images and exploits uncontrolled loading conditions accessing a wider range of phenomena. The mathematical underpinnings are based on Equation 6 above with the trigonometric functions expanded as follows cos cos cos sin sin 13 Unlike the current art the controlled phase is varied for every image as the load changes with time the load also varying for each image. This results in a ratio equation of the form 

The present system method provides exquisite sensitivity to measure very small surface motions. Consider a target surface moving under continuously time varying load such that two points on the target surface which are centered on a location x y and which are separated by the shear distance move with a time varying relative amplitude x y t which is a small fraction for example 1 10th of the wavelength of the laser radiation. Specklegram pixels corresponding to point x y will also have a speckle noise phase which is random. For four specklegrams s1 s2 s3 and s4 acquired respectively at different sequential times t t tand twith respective phase modulations of 0 radians 2 3 radians 4 3 radians and 0 radians or equivalently 2 radians relative to the laser wavelength then the output Shearof the algorithm 

The rules for selecting the phase steps of the Shearalgorithm are as follows cos cos cos cos sin sin . Moreover the phase steps between the laser beams and specklegrams s1 s2 s3 s4 do not need to all be equal. In particular the phase step or difference between the phase of the second laser beam specklegram s2 and the third laser beam specklegram s3 may differ from the phase step or difference between the phase of the first laser beam specklegram s1 and the second laser beam specklegram s2 and may also differ from the phase step or difference between the third laser beam specklegram s3 and the fourth laser beam specklegram s4. This may alternately be stated that phase and phase define therebetween a first phase step or phase difference and at least one of a phase and phase define therebetween a phase step or phase difference which is different from the first phase step or phase difference and b phase and phase define therebetween a phase step or phase difference different from the first phase step or phase difference.

The phase resolved processing may be applied continuously and may be applied in an overlapping manner for example computing Shearfor a first set of four shots with phases 0 2 3 4 3 and 0 radians then for a second set of four shots with phases 2 3 4 3 0 and 2 3 radians then for a third set of four shots with phases 4 3 0 2 3 and 4 3 radians then for a fourth set of four shots with phases 0 2 3 4 3 and 0 radians etc. yielding a continuous movie of the surface motion. The first set of four shots may also be expressed for example as phase 0 phase 2 3 phase 4 3 and phase 0 radians the second set of four shots may be expressed as phase 2 3 phase 4 3 phase 0 and phase 2 3 radians the third set of four shots may be expressed as phase 4 3 phase 0 phase 2 3 and phase 4 3 radians and the fourth set of four shots may be expressed as phase 0 phase 2 3 phase 4 3 and phase 0 radians. In this example it is noted that the second set of four shots overlaps the first set of four shots that the third set of four shots overlaps each of the first and second sets and that the fourth set of four shots overlaps each of the first second and third sets. More particularly the first three shots of the second set with phases 2 3 radians 4 3 radians and 0 radians are the same as the last three shots of the first set so that the second set overlaps the first set with an overlap of three common shots the first three shots of the third set with phases 4 3 0 and 2 3 radians are the same as the last three shots of the second set so that the third set overlaps the second set with an overlap of three common shots the first two shots of the third set with phases 4 3 and 0 radians are the same as the last two shots of the first set so that the third set overlaps the first set with an overlap of two common shots the first three shots of the fourth set with phases 0 2 3 4 3 radians are the same as the last three shots of the third set so that the fourth set overlaps the third set with an overlap of three common shots the first two shots of the fourth set with phases 0 and 2 3 radians are the same as the last two shots of the second set so that the fourth set overlaps the second set with an overlap of two common shots and the first shot of the fourth set with phase 0 radians is the same as the last shot of the first set so that the fourth set overlaps the first set with an overlap of one common shot. Of course a fifth set of four shots in this pattern would similarly overlap the second third and fourth sets while not overlapping the first set. Such a fifth set of four shots may be expressed as phase 2 3 phase 4 3 phase 0 and phase 2 3 radians. This or another pattern may repeat itself over and over again.

An example of the time variation of a pixel of a movie such as that noted above is shown in which is contrasted with an analogous output in if similarly attempted with prior art non phase resolved shearography. The high fidelity of the estimate of the surface motion such as shown in distinguishes the present method from the prior state of the art such as shown in which adds an uncertainty amounting to a full wavelength of light to the phase measurement requiring extensive post processing with computationally intensive algorithms and reductions in image resolution. The present method may thus eliminate or vastly reduce this uncertainty and the noted extensive post processing.

The error bars in the present method arise from the terms proportional to cos in the general case for finite amplitudes derived from Equation 14 which for Shearis 

With sequences longer than four shots the 2 3 phase steps could be replaced with finer steps 3 for example and the corresponding phase resolved equations developed in a manner analogous to that outlined above in and related to Tables 5 8. In general the optimal outputs have the form of ratios of sums of differences between specklegrams 

The generalization in Equation 18 also can be applied sequences of just three or four laser shots. In particular for peak straddling cases see Method 2 in Table 13 above in which the loads at times tand tare equal to each other and the loads at times tand tare also equal to each other though different from the load at time t the algorithm Sheargiven in Equation 17 may yield an ambiguous result even in the presence of rates of change of the signal phase. In that case an alternative algorithm of the same form as Equation 18 unambiguously shows the effects of a varying load 

Thus computing both Shearand Sheargive a means to always detect a signal phase cause by a varying load without control of said load and without prior information regarding the temporal phase of the load. The application of Equation 19 is particularly useful in the peak straddling case but is not limited to said case.

Equation 19 also provides a means to extend the phase resolved shearography method to sequences of just three laser shots. The rules for selecting the phase steps cos cos cos cos sin sin allow for the selection . With this selection it is clear that signal phases in the peak straddling case s1 and s4 provide redundant information since both the true signal phases and the interferometer phases are equal at times tand t. Replacing s4 with s1 in Equation 19 then gives a third algorithm requiring just three laser shots to create a specklegram.

The rules for selecting the sequence of controlled phases . . . in the shearing interferometer are the same except that the images are to be processed in groups of three instead of four to yield each shearogram. More particularly where the three laser shots shots 1 2 and 3 are part of a longer sequence for example of laser shots 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 . . . the same rules apply except that the specklegrams are derived from three laser shots each. For instance a first specklegram may be derived from or based on laser shots 1 2 and 3 a second specklegram may be derived from or based on laser shots 2 3 and 4 a third specklegram may be derived from or based on laser shots 3 4 and 5 a fourth specklegram may be derived from or based on laser shots 4 5 and 6 a fifth specklegram may be derived from or based on laser shots 5 6 and 7 and so on. This processing of specklegrams may create a movie of the moving target surface. On the other hand where only three laser shots are used the first laser shot can be acquired at any convenient relative phase and the rules for selecting the phase are cos cos sin sin . Like Equation 19 Equation 20 can be employed generally for any time varying load and is not confined to the peak straddling load condition.

As noted the method uses at least three and preferably four interferometric images or specklegrams with a controlled phase difference between images. With the use of a pulsed laser the term shot for each image may be used. The data do not have to be collected in bursts of three or four shots many images can be collected over an extended time and processed to yield a movie of the target surface motions as noted above. Because the phase resolved method captures both the magnitude and the sign of the surface motion the speeds and propagation directions of the vibrations can be determined. Further the data collection can be asynchronous with the surface motions there is no need to time the laser pulses to match the phases of the target surface motions. The ability to image microscopic vibrations which are not under the control of the operator as said vibrations propagate across a surface is a distinctive capability allowing for fast collection of surface vibrations arising from a variety of causes.

A continuous wave laser is also usable if the power collected over a short camera exposure time is high enough to provide enough photoelectrons per pixel. Here short exposure time means a time much less than the minimum of a the surface vibration periods of interest or b the scintillation correlation time of the medium through which the laser is passing typically several milliseconds for air .

An experimental verification of phase resolved shearography using a circular membrane or drumhead target was conducted. The membrane target was assembled from a 12 by 18 plate thinned to 0.02 over two 3 diameter regions and a micrometer. The micrometer could be adjusted to push against one of the thinned regions of the plate producing variable amounts of surface distortion. Two tests were conducted using this target a large amplitude test in which the membrane was distorted by an amplitude large enough to generate multiple ring pairs within the shearogram and a small amplitude test in which the membrane was distorted by a smaller amplitude generating only a single ring pair within the shearogram . For each of these tests a phase resolved PR shearogram and a non phase resolved NPR shearogram were generated. Each test consisted of collecting a series of four specklegram images of the front of the plate as the distortion was adjusted from zero to some maximum displacement amplitude in four equal steps. The large amplitude test indicated that the PR shearography method produced shearograms with positive and negative fringe values resolving both the magnitude and sign of the slope changes. The small amplitude test provided similar results illustrating that even at low amplitudes the PR shearography was able to resolve the magnitude and the sign of the slope changes. The tests emphasize superior performance of PR versus NPR shearography for resolving positive versus negative surface slope changes. The PR shearography also proved to have a much improved signal to noise ratio SNR for example a 9 SNR improvement. Further cross sections of PR and NPR shearograms were compared in a large amplitude test and were likewise compared in a small amplitude test. In both cases the fringe contrast was significantly larger for PR shearograms than for NPR shearograms. With PR shearography the fringes are clearer and easier to resolve at all amplitudes phase unwrapping is unambiguous and the SNR is about nine times higher than in NPR shearography.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that while the present method is useful for remote detection of buried underground objects or structures it may also be used in a variety of other situations. For instance other uses include non contact sensing of acousto seismic vibrations for other applications including investigation of properties to the transmitting medium. Since the technique is sensitive to extremely small surface amplitude changes there are likely many other applications including the real time measurement of small surface changes as might be helpful in the development of oxidation layers or biofilms which may be represented by target surface . Although the method was discussed primarily with respect to using shearography apparatus while moving relative to the target on a moving platform shearography apparatus may also be used while stationary and for instance may be so used to detect leaking underground pipes or the digging or building of a tunnel or underground room.

The present shearography may be used to ascertain or identify various subsurface structures including the underground structures previously noted as well as any subsurface structure beneath a given target surface. The present shearography system and process may be used in the medical field for instance including non contact monitoring of respiration non contact cardiograms and non contact ultrasound imaging. There may be many other uses any phenomenon such as sound which can convey information from inside a body to make a physical change in the surface might be exploited. In such cases target surface may for instance represent a skin surface of a person or animal undergoing the respective shearography procedure which would thus allow via shearograms for the determining or ascertaining subsurface structures or movement within a human body or animal .

As noted further above the prior art phase stepped shearography required that for a given set of specklegrams used to produce a shearogram the loading conditions must be constant for the specklegrams in that given set. In contrast the present method s allows a shearogram to be produced from a set of specklegrams for which the loads are different.

In addition while prior art phase stepped shearography required that two shearograms be produced and compared to one another to discern surface changes the present shearography allows for ascertaining surface changes of a target surface with a single shearogram. Additional shearograms in the present method may thus be used to show additional surface changes over time which allow for the creation of a movie of the surface changes which may be an essentially real time movie of those surface changes and thus an essentially real time movie of subsurface structures or subsurface movements below the target surface. The method s herein vastly reduces or eliminates the unwrapping processing required in prior art shearography.

In the foregoing description certain terms have been used for brevity clearness and understanding. No unnecessary limitations are to be implied therefrom beyond the requirement of the prior art because such terms are used for descriptive purposes and are intended to be broadly construed.

Moreover the description and illustration set out herein are an example and the invention is not limited to the exact details shown or described.

