---

title: System and method for calculating tolerance zones for utility assets
abstract: Method for calculating tolerance zones for utility assets includes: receiving data about a point, a line, or an area related to a location of an utility asset in a region; receiving information about said utility asset in the region from one or more databases, wherein the received information includes two or more of a type of the utility asset, a location of the utility asset, an accuracy of the location of the utility asset, accuracy requirements for the utility asset, accuracy requirements for the region, and a map tile accuracy; calculating a tolerance zone for said utility asset in the region based on the accuracy requirements for the utility asset and one or more of said accuracy of the location of the utility asset, accuracy requirements for the region, and the map tile accuracy; and transmitting the tolerance zone to a remote device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619573&OS=09619573&RS=09619573
owner: PROSTAR GEOCORP, INC.
number: 09619573
owner_city: Grand Junction
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
This Patent Application claims the benefits of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 788 416 filed on Mar. 15 2013 and entitled System And Method For Integration And Correlation Of GIS Data the entire content of which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates generally to GIS data and more particularly to a system and method for integration and correlation of GIS data.

There are many utility assets above ground and below ground in a geographic project area that need to be protected and avoided during construction activities in the project area. Furthermore often some of such utility assets are damaged or need to be repaired and or updated. Included in these assets are utility lines and components and protected areas such as archeological sites riparian zones and habitat of endangered species. These utility lines include without limitation electric power lines telephone lines water lines sewer lines fiber optic cable lines natural gas transmission lines natural gas distribution lines and utility lines for transporting hazardous liquids.

There are several practices currently in use to help address damage prevention when groundbreaking or other construction equipment is used around utilities and other assets that need protection. One example includes marking the location of an underground utility asset by painting lines on the ground. Commonly the utility companies and or locate service companies are called to the site to place marks place flags or spray paint on the surface of the ground with an identifying color for example red for electric lines yellow for gas lines and so forth on the surface to demarcate the location of a specific utility line and or its components. Such marking is temporary by nature and typically lasts only for the one earth moving operation or ground breaking operation such as removing the surface cover such as pavement cement dirt for which the utilities were marked.

Another typical approach is to make a record of the location of the utility lines as the line was placed in the earth by creating a drawing showing the asset location relative to an existing feature or landmark such as a curb or building. However the accuracy of the location is dictated by the accuracy of the reference point.

However in many instances the precision or accuracy of the location data in different databases varies for example according to how the data was collected the accuracy of the device that collected the data the accuracy of the underlying software and the map GIS engine. For example one company s database may have location data accurate up to 5 inches while another company s location data is accurate up to 1 foot while the underlying software has an accuracy of 2 inches and the user s viewing device e.g. a mobile phone or a tablet has an accuracy of 1.50 feet. Furthermore users and or some types of utility assets may have different accuracy requirements.

The present invention takes into account these various accuracies and generates a single correlated optimum accuracy for these various accuracies.

In some embodiments the present invention is a computer implemented method for calculating tolerance zones for utility assets. The method includes receiving data about a point a line or an area related to a location of an utility asset in a region receiving information about said utility asset in the region from one or more databases wherein the received information includes two or more of a type of the utility asset a location of the utility asset an accuracy of the location of the utility asset accuracy requirements for the utility asset accuracy requirements for the region and a map tile accuracy calculating a tolerance zone for said utility asset in the region based on the accuracy requirements for the utility asset and one or more of said accuracy of the location of the utility asset accuracy requirements for the region and the map tile accuracy and transmitting the tolerance zone to a remote device.

In some embodiments the present invention is a system for calculating tolerance zones for utility assets. The system includes an input device for receiving data about a point a line or an area related to a location of an utility asset in a region a receiver for receiving information about said utility asset in the region from one or more databases wherein the received information includes two or more of a type of the utility asset a location of the utility asset an accuracy of the location of the utility asset accuracy requirements for the utility asset accuracy requirements for the region and a map tile accuracy a processor for calculating a tolerance zone for said utility asset in the region based on the accuracy requirements for the utility asset and one or more of said accuracy of the location of the utility asset accuracy requirements for the region and the map tile accuracy and a transmitter for transmitting the tolerance zone to a remote device.

In some embodiments the present invention is a computer implemented method for auto populating an interactive electronic form based on geospatial coordinates. The method includes identifying a location on a map identifying a geospatial object selecting an interactive form retrieving location data related to the selected form and the geospatial object auto populating appropriate fields of the selected interactive form with the location data and saving the populated form as a feature of the geospatial object.

In some embodiments the method and system of the present invention electronically aggregates as well as conflates or fuses the utility infrastructure data from different sources for example ESRI GE Smallworld Google Bing AutoDesk etc. into a single source view and quantifies measures and qualifies the data as well as the data layers with a single correlated optimum accuracy in order to provide accuracy and confidence levels associated with the data which in turn may indicate what type of business decision can be made and the risk that could be associated to that decision with respect to accuracy of the data. If the risk and confidence levels are of concern the appropriate data source or data layer that needs to be verified and rectified can easily be identified based on precision and pedigree levels in order to increase user confidence and lower risk levels. For example for high risk utility assets such as gas lines the required accuracy or precision of the data may be higher. Conversely for lower risk utility assets such as sewage lines the desired accuracy or precision may not be as high.

In many instances the invention stores data about the utility assets for example in a precision integration PI grid that includes above or below ground utility location data combined with a GIS Landbase that includes satellite and or other imagery and mapping information. Here precision GPS refers to a GPS system that provides position information such as latitude longitude and possibly elevation data with accuracies within centimeter ranges. The stored utility location information may be recalled anywhere anytime using a computer network such as the Internet and an electronic device such as a portable smart phone or similar devices.

In some embodiments accuracy is defined as the proximity of a measurement result to the true value. This is often stated as the expected margin of error of a given measurement system. Precision is defined as the reproducibility or repeatability of a measurement system the degree to which repeated measurements under unchanged conditions result in the same value.

The PI SW Components and the GIS GPS technologies are integrated to develop or provide the field software applications that are utilized under a process control by the Processes . The system of the present invention utilizing field software applications executed by a mobile device under process control generates or produces the information products that are utilized at different life cycle steps by a user to provide in various forms and optionally on a subscription basis information products. The information products include notification to the utility companies with utilities in the project area of the planned construction which are managed and distributed by an electronic management and distribution system.

For example if the sign pole installation is over a sewer line and the sewer line is 9ft deep and no other lines are in the area of concern the pole installation may able to proceed since it will not have any effect on the sewer line which is buried 9ft deep. However if records on file indicate that a gas line is somewhere in proximity and the confidence level of the precise location data is low then perhaps additional measures should be taken before breaking ground even for just a pole installation. Once the pole is installed the system could update the pole installation with GPS data images such as photographs and field notes.

Identifying the location and area of the project may be accomplished in various ways including latitude and longitude or GPS data. For example a user can identify a project area by circling the project area on a map or making a tile on a map e.g. a Google Earth Microsoft Virtual Earth etc. using a pointing device such as a mouse electronic stylus or touch screen identifying the street address of the construction area identifying an intersection a land mark a postal zip code or the like. A map tile is an imagery of the earth taken from above and associated with geographic coordinates. Imagery is often captured from satellites or aircraft and associated with latitude and longitude values. A map tile accuracy is the margin of error of a map tile associated geographic coordinates corresponding to the true geographic coordinates.

Referring back to GIS Landbase data is then accessed by the one or more computers. The GIS Landbase is created utilizing map data and is stored in a database. The database stores information about the utility assets including their locations types and owners. However the data for different utility assets may have different accuracies. Alternatively or in addition the data may be retrieved from various different databases each with a different accuracy. Using the precision database which includes the utility assets and their locations the utility assets relevant to the project area and optionally to the project type and or scope are then identified. Data related to the identified utility assets is then retrieved from the precision database. The retrieved data includes the utility type location the utility company responsible for associated with the contact information of such utility companies meta data for pedigree and the like. The retrieved utility asset may have different risk levels and accuracy levels and therefore different confidence levels. Furthermore the user may have different accuracy requirements for example 4 inches for gas pipelines 2 inches for electrical lines and 1 foot for sewage lines.

Data management operations are then invoked to manage and distribute data for example to automatically send notifications to respective users for example by a transmitter which may be part of the one or more computers. For example the notification may also be sent to the personnel in the field and other related parties taking into account the different accuracy levels of the data and the viewing devices. The notification may be in the form of an email a facsimile text message an automatic phone call an upload of data into a certain website database electronic device or the like.

A GPS centric mobile software application enables authorized field personnel to capture a precise point of asset locations and other location related information from a data locate tool or compliant mobile device. The software application collects GPS location points including the precision of the point and the pedigree in the metadata associated to the point being captured and captures binds and submits the precision and pedigree of the data to a database in real time. In some embodiments the software enhanced by a map engine for example Google Maps Engine provides the field workers with the ability to visualize their proximity relative to existing infrastructure view any existing data related to that infrastructure and provide the ability to edit historical location data update design drawings capture GPS tagged photos and make notes or sketches before submitting the information to the database.

Another software application provides the field utility workers with the visualization situation awareness and precise location data required to enable better decisions to be made and complete field tasks with greater efficiency. The real time functionality provided by the software allows workers to view all the available data relative to their location including above or below ground assets as built information photos and any documents related to a point line or bounded area. In some embodiments the software is configured to use precise GPS centric data and a precision integration processes to provide a view of the location of field workers relative to the location of buried and surface assets from a browser or other viewing applications.

Published data from the Publishers can be in any format and can be delivered via any data communication protocol. As shown a mapping engine such as Google Earth and locate devices can deliver data directly to the GPS centric mobile software application. Other publishers may have to go through an interface for example a data mapping and delivery interface in order for their data to be published to the GPS centric mobile software application.

GIS Systems include GIS data with different accuracy and risk levels. GIS System integration can be perform through a variety of means. For example through a flat file integration e.g. shape files KML XML etc. via FTP SMTP SFTP AS2 etc. or through an application programming interface API calls initiated by a data mapping and delivery interface e.g. via REST API or other options available through various GIS systems . Other data sources refers to any source that contains information that can be exported in some format and delivered to the data mapping and delivery interface via a push or pull mechanism.

In some embodiments the map engine and locate devices can communicate directly with the GPS centric mobile software application. However publishers including the above mentioned two can go directly to the data mapping and delivery interface . Data can be synchronized directly between the GPS centric mobile software application and data mapping and delivery interface for data rectification mapping modification reporting etc. as shown by .

Data mapping and delivery are those components of the data mapping and delivery interface directly applicable to the data flow shown in . In some embodiments data from data mapping and delivery interface can be queried and displayed directly by a reporting module .

Some subscribers may also be publishers. That is the GPS centric mobile software application can push data directly to Google Maps Engine and does not have to go through the data mapping and delivery interface . GIS systems can be integrated with via a variety of techniques some of which are described above with respect to GIS systems. Data can be delivered in any format and via any protocol to subscribers who have proprietary systems as shown by .

In some embodiments the present invention take into account the various data accuracies from different publishers different GIS systems different data sources and or different subscribers and their different viewing devices and generates a correlated optimum accuracy for these various accuracies.

In some embodiments data integrity requirements differ from project to project. The PI Grid may be designed to support a higher level data integrity requirement for example damage prevention pipeline integrity high consequence area HCA emergency planning zone EPZ maximum operating pressure MOP and archeological site each of which require a higher level data integrity requirements and management protocols. By supporting the higher level of data integrity requirement value added services may be provided for the remainder of utility asset management projects including those that have lesser standards for data integrity.

This way the method and system of the present invention provides a single source view into a single conflated view with the associated precision and pedigree and or accuracy precision of each layer and source of each layer to enable a user to determine appropriate protocols based on the quality or precision of the data layers presented including the user s confidence in his or her decision. In some embodiments the method and system of the present invention determines which data source or layer needs to be improved or updated in order to qualify to meet specific precision and pedigree standards associated with risk levels. For example data source or layer 1 may be A level quality data source or layer 2 and 3 may be B level whereas data source or layer 4 may only qualify as D level. If the criteria is no less than B level then data source or layer 4 need to be updated or correlated to meet the minimum required standards or precision level.

For example if data quality is poor larger buffer zones may be required. If a gas line is being put in the ground and the previous information for that area is old and only qualifies as D quality data the gas line may have to be exposed and while exposed B quality more precise data may be captured using precision GPS data collection devices. Once more precise data is captured the system of the invention may notify stakeholders associated entities of the improved data and various processes actions may be initiated as a result for example decreasing the buffer zone creating inspection ticket with regulatory agency or the like may be initiated.

As another example if a gas line is in the vicinity of an area of interest or project area and within a predetermined buffer zone based on data pedigree of for example C quality the line may be required to be exposed to capture a better quality location and other data to provide increased confidence and to make sure it is not damaged during performance of a project or too much pressure created from cement placed on top of it. For instance if the gas line is actually 3 ft from where previous records indicated this could be cause of concern to an electrical company as the data may now indicate that the gas line is too close to an electrical line.

In another case a regulatory agency may need to know about this inaccuracy as it fails the required compliance. Accordingly both the gas and electrical companies may have to comply with the compliance requirements and thus another agency may have to be notified and get involved to provide proof of proper action to meet compliance. Once the gas line is exposed a requirement may be to take a GPS reading with a more precise depth x and y coordinates. When the new more accurate data is taken and the improved precision and pedigree recorded all stakeholders may be notified of the new data and also rectify their own internal records databases that depend on this new information.

In some embodiments the present invention handles more than tolerance from layers that create a confidence area or buffer zone based on the utility and pedigree information by providing other buffer zones or areas of confidence such as for a high consequence area HCA . An HCA is based on impact areas when pipelines carrying high pressure and low pressure liquid and gas run through an area where impact zones are created based on a potential incidence and what would impacted in such an event. Environmental zones such as for birds beavers and other wildlife can be impacted in the event of an incident and for HCA it is when a pipeline is distributing liquid or gas through a populated area and structures close to the pipeline need to be monitored.

These structures would be but not limited to schools day care facilities malls homes apartments businesses and shopping malls etc. Also occupancy hours of business etc. need to be known which can be described as precision and pedigree in terms of what who where when and how could be impacted in the event of an incident. A set of processes determine the structures that need to be monitored based on the HCA and environmental zones offset relative to the asset location and path. These feature are especially valuable for current infrastructure as well as planning and design of new assets. This information is generally acquired from census information and other public records and could automated.

These tolerance buffer zones may rendered and displayed in both two and three dimensional views and may be color coded to match the quality level. Moreover the tolerance buffer zones may be rendered on a digital map to represent the calculated distance of spatial data accuracy and to visually represent differing quality levels between multiple data sources with differing accuracies. The user is given a visual representation of the features and provided instant access and awareness regarding the geospatial feature on the information map. In some embodiments the calculated buffer distance is displayed as a tolerance buffer zone by rendering a measured halo around the vicinity of the map feature or object thus providing the user a visual representation of the quality and spatial accuracy for both horizontal and vertical data including X Y and Z coordinates and depth of measurements. As the extended metadata is updated the invention recognizes the revised information and in real time recalculates the buffer and quality tolerances to provide an updated view of the feature accuracy. These tolerance buffer zones may be around a point a line and or an area of interest.

In some embodiments the spatial accuracy of map features is defined within the feature information as extended data to the existing metadata. By describing the contents and context of data files the quality and understanding of the original data is greatly increased. These embodiments extend the metadata to include additional information about the utility asset such as regulatory quality levels consequence variables along with instrumentation readings and their values which allows the system and method to calculate accuracy tolerance buffers and render halos around map feature objects based upon it s known and qualified spatial accuracy and quality level attributes as stored within the extended metadata fields.

In block the information relating to the calculated tolerance zone is published as a vector or tiled image halo surrounding a geospatial map feature rendered on a digital map. In this case publish refers to making data available for other users to view for example a point that is made available on a map for display and or editing to users with the correct permissions. An unpublished point would not be available for users to view or change. In some embodiments the information relating to the calculated tolerance zone is transmitted to a remote device by a transmitter which may be part of a server system and a mobile device.

The tolerance zone specific for each utility in the selected region may then be displayed on a display as a layer on a map. In some embodiments the displayed tolerance buffer zone matches the pedigree accuracy for each point of the line in case of a line zone . For example a tolerance buffer zone matching the pedigree accuracy for each point of a line may be displayed with a transparent colored area being the tolerance buffer zone for the line. In some embodiments a selected group of the tolerance zones may be turned on or off for display. These tolerance zones may then be utilized to generate an alert or warning for a mobile user or a digging equipment operator as the user or the equipment approaches or within a tolerance zone. In some embodiments if the tolerance zone is small for example smaller than a programmable value less number or less frequent notification or warnings are issue and vice versa.

These tolerance buffer zones may be utilized in a variety of different applications. For example in some embodiments the tolerance zones may be used with given standards or guidelines for data quality levels for example A to D for collection and depiction of the utility data to provide an aggregated view when displaying utility data. In some embodiments the tolerance zones may be used with given standards or guidelines for mapping of underground utility infrastructure for example for positional accuracy levels 0 through 5 to provide an aggregated view when displaying utility data. In some embodiments the tolerance zones may be used with pedigree data including who collected the data what data was collected why the data was collected where it was collected when it was collected and how it was collected.

In some embodiments the tolerance zones may be used with precision attributes including instrumentation readings and settings required to calculate precision from data collection devices such as locate tools GPS devices geophysical equipment etc.

In some embodiments the present invention is particularly useful for acts of God situations for example when an earthquake a fire or hurricane and the like occurs. In these cases based on predictive models each event could have a varying degree of impact on the utility asset and that could create an incident and immediate notices or warnings may be triggered to the relevant parties within a zone of impact.

According to some embodiments of the present invention a mobile device used as a locate device and or viewing device based on the location of the device creates a map tile with all the data required to work within that tile regardless if the device has connectivity to a master geo database or not. The mobile device caches all the data layers in the specified work area tile and synchronize when data is being pushed or pulled from a server. If at any point connectivity is lost the mobile device can still be used to proceed with the work and synchronize when connectivity is regained.

In some embodiments the mobile device may be configured as a viewer into the database including all the data and imagery so that the field worker has the database available in the field where data in the data base can be captured verified and rectified. The mobile device in this case becomes the in the field server for the locate tools in which data can be captured stored and pushed to the server as well as pulling information.

In some embodiments the present invention uses the square root of the sum of the squares to calculate the aggregate accuracy of a measurement data when the accuracies of all the measuring components data sources and viewing devices in the system are known. A GPS point may be defined as the latitude longitude and time and optionally elevation as recorded by a GPS receiver. A GPS point accuracy is the combined accuracy of the visible system when displaying a GPS point on a map tile. A GPS point visual accuracy is the combined accuracy of the visible system when displaying a GPS point on a map tile.

For example assuming MT1 is a visible map tile with an associated accuracy of 3 feet and GPS1 is a visible GPS point with an associated accuracy of 8 feet then 3 8 8.544 feet.

A map visual accuracy mean is a map visual accuracy mean when displaying one or more GPS Points on one or more map tiles. In some embodiments the present invention calculates a map visual accuracy mean MVAM by the following equation 

where GPVA1 GPVA2 . . . are the set of GPS Point Visual Accuracy values for a visible map and N is the number of GPS Points. From the example above the MVAM value would be used to display the tolerance zone as a halo around a point line or area displayed on a map.

In some embodiments the present invention includes the capability of storing photos documents videos and other multi media content in association with a project and or GIS data. In some embodiments any file that a user saves for example to a drop box will be automatically saved to all computers phones and the cloud website of the user. This feature of the present invention makes it much easier to share GIS and utility asset information with others as a locator engineer regulatory agency and the like.

As shown in block a geospatial parent object is selected or created and the information about the selected or created object is received for example by a server computer. For example the parent object may be created on a map by a user using a set of geospatial coordinates such as latitude and longitude GPS etc. This object may then be moved to a new geospatial location by a second user. The object may be one or more of a file a document an image a database entry a directory tree or the like. The object may be selected from a map display or from data entered by the user. For example a polygon line or point on a map or display may be selected and then a drop tool menu button may be activated for activating the drop tool function. A drop toll dialog box may be displayed for the user to enter and or select information.

A child object to be associated to the parent object is then selected or created in block . For example an object from a map may be selected and the selected object may be assigned as a child object to be related to the selected or created parent object. For example using a drag and drop function the selected object is assigned a child relationship to the selected or created parent object. As another example selecting a menu item for drop box provides access to the assignment function for example a folder where files and objects can be added to removed from or edited in the folder. The object may appear graphically in an onscreen dialog box showing the child object and the parent object relationship. The user may then be prompted to confirm the assignment between the parent and child objects.

In block this parent child object relationship is saved. A reference pointer for example uniform resource locator URL or a pointer to a database referencing the child object is then created in block . This way a remote client user can access the object e.g. a file via the geospatial view by navigating to the referenced geospatial location and using the drop box or accessing the object e.g. a file via the created reference for example the URL.

In some embodiments the user may be provided with a listing of the stored objects. A second user located remotely from the first user can then access an objects via a geospatial view by navigating to the referenced geospatial location and using a Drop Tool menu or by accessing the object via an URL.

In some embodiments a user may upload historical and or associated files as child objects to an online data repository and assign or associate the child object files documents to one or many geospatial map parent features leveraging drag and drop tools or a manual child data entry field. In some embodiments the URL is associated with an identifier of an object or an object listing associated with a point line or area. This link can then be shared with a second user to access the same object or object listing associated with the point line or area on the map. Moreover the parent object may be dragged or moved to a new geospatial position on the map and the associated child objects will automatically inherit this new geospatial location and some or all precision pedigree and provenance data elements from the parent object.

Furthermore the invention provides custom filtering for the user so that only a selected portion of documents and data are shown. For example the user may select only regulatory documents or data to be shown with respect to a line only data about gas utility lines to be shown for a point or only certain documents or data to be shown when a point is selected. The actions to be performed may include certain types of reporting notifications instructions sent or other type of warning and or notifications.

In some embodiments the drop box feature is geo spatial precise meaning the invention makes sure that all the files are based on the same precise location point no matter where the user is working from. A user is able to invite his her co workers third parties and or regulatory agencies to share any folder in his her drop box and even set up notifications when new files are dropped or old files updated. Moreover the user can send links to specific files in his drop box to others.

As shown in block a location is identified. The location may be identified on a displayed map using a pointer cursor by an address an intersection a land mark a neighborhood name or other known methods of identifying locations. In block a geospatial object type is identified. For example a point a line or a polygon or other symbols may be selected in a map. An interactive form is then selected or retrieved from a list of forms or a database in block . The forms may be any type of business and government forms for example an inspection form a procedure document a survey form and the like. In block the location specific data related to the selected form and the geospatial object type is identified and retrieved from a database. If the form is related to a land parcel for instance the database may contain metadata relating to this parcel that would be specific to this parcel and would be retrieved from the database. For example one or more of the owner s name contact information the property mailing address legal description zoning land use etc. may be retrieved.

In some embodiments the geospatial data would typically come from a GPS device and secondly these forms would be filled in the field using a mobile device. However occasionally the form would be modified or completed from a desktop computer.

In block the appropriate fields of the identified form are auto populated with the location specific data. The populated form is then saved as a feature of the geospatial object e.g. point line or area in block .

It will be recognized by those skilled in the art that various modifications may be made to the illustrated and other embodiments of the invention described above without departing from the broad inventive step thereof. It will be understood therefore that the invention is not limited to the particular embodiments or arrangements disclosed but is rather intended to cover any changes adaptations or modifications which are within the scope and spirit of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

