---

title: Dynamically integrating disparate computer-aided dispatch systems
abstract: Systems and methods for dynamically integrating disparate computer-aided dispatch (CAD) systems are disclosed. The systems and methods provide bi-directional interoperability between disparate CAD systems and maintain stateful ongoing interactions between interconnected CAD systems. Information objects in one CAD system are associated and bound to related objects in other CAD systems through a centralized information hub that transforms data items intelligently to facilitate communication and interaction between the CAD systems connected to the hub. The described systems and methods maintain complete and current perspectives of all relevant information for each CAD system connected to the information hub, thereby eliminating the need for point-to-point intelligence maintained by the CAD systems about the other interconnected CAD systems. As information updates are passed from CAD systems to the information hub and back out to other CAD systems, the information hub transforms and evaluates the information updates ensuring that only necessary information updates are forwarded.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09465839&OS=09465839&RS=09465839
owner: 
number: 09465839
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140829
---
This is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 215 196 filed on Aug. 22 2011 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 252 067 filed on Oct. 15 2008 which is a continuation in part of prior application Ser. No. 11 070 391 filed Mar. 1 2005 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 549 432 filed Mar. 2 2004 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 549 427 filed Mar. 2 2004 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 602 470 filed Aug. 18 2004 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 629 713 filed Nov. 19 2004 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 629 835 filed on Nov. 19 2004 which are all incorporated herein by reference

The present invention relates to dynamically integrating disparate data systems and more particularly to dynamically integrating disparate computer aided dispatch systems.

When a computer software program is created an application program interface is typically used. An application program interface is a set of routines protocols and tools for building software applications. A good application program interface makes it easier to develop a software program by providing the necessary building blocks. The programmer puts the building blocks together in order to create the computer software program.

Operating systems typically provide an application program interface so that programmers can write applications consistent with the particular operating environment. Although application program interfaces are designed for programmers they also help users by guaranteeing that all programs using a common application program interface will have similar interfaces which makes it easier for users to learn new programs.

Since a variety of operating systems are currently available and thus a variety of corresponding application program interfaces are currently used computer systems can be disparate and therefore experience difficulties in exchanging data or be unable to exchange data.

In a variety of different industries desirable information is located in such disparate information systems. One such example is in the public safety industry where driver license information warrant information and other desirable information is typically located in disparate and incompatible systems. Accordingly public safety officials employ a plurality of independent radio and or computer networks to access information.

One particular type of system utilized by the public safety industry is a computer aided dispatch CAD system. While computer aided dispatch systems are particularly useful to the public safety industry in providing computerized allocation and tracking of resources such systems have limitations. In particular a single municipality may have multiple such CAD systems corresponding to multiple agencies fire police ambulance and various entities providing such and similar services etc. . Where multiple CAD systems service a single entity the municipality often wishes for improved communication between such systems. Additionally neighboring municipalities often have mutual aid or other similar agreements between them where resources of one municipality are committed to responding to an emergency situation in another municipality. Again improved communication between the CAD systems of each municipality in such situations may be desired.

Many CAD systems utilize different technologies computer languages data etc. making reliable communication between such systems difficult at best. A common solution for communicating between systems has been to provide a rigid and customized point to point adapter and data transformation operations. However such designs have been difficult to implement on a large scale as an increasing number of CAD systems needing to be integrated requires a number of orchestrations and data transformations equivalent to the total number of CAD systems multiplied by one less than the total number of CAD systems. Additionally ongoing maintenance customization and or upgrades requires support and customization of each point to point pipeline. Therefore existing CAD system operability solutions have been less than adequate.

The present invention relates to dynamically integrating disparate data systems. In particular the present invention relates to systems and methods for seamlessly integrating disparate data systems to securely customizably and dynamically collaborate and share real time information and for providing intelligent data sharing that supports multiple standards concurrently and provides automatic conversioning of data information. Implementation of the present invention is more particularly directed to dynamically integrating computer aided dispatch CAD systems.

Implementation of the present invention provides systems and methods for dynamically integrating disparate computer aided dispatch CAD systems. The systems and methods provide bi directional interoperability between disparate CAD systems and maintain stateful ongoing interactions between interconnected CAD systems. Information objects in one CAD system are associated and bound to related objects in other CAD systems through a centralized information hub that transforms data items intelligently to facilitate communication and interaction between the CAD systems connected to the hub. The described systems and methods maintain complete and current perspectives of all relevant information for each CAD system connected to the information hub thereby eliminating the need for point to point intelligence maintained by the CAD systems about the other interconnected CAD systems. As information updates are passed from CAD systems to the information hub and back out to other CAD systems the information hub transforms and evaluates the information updates ensuring that only necessary information updates are forwarded.

Implementation of the present invention takes place in association with a dynamic network for use in seamlessly and customizably integrating data of disparate systems. In at least some implementations of the present invention a Peer Intelligence data sharing network is created that includes one or more from any of a system architecture suite a technologies suite and or an applications suite.

While the methods and processes of the present invention have proven to be particularly useful in gathering information from disparate systems in the area of public safety those skilled in the art can appreciate that the methods and processes can be used in a variety of different applications and in or across a variety of different industries to yield a seamless integration of disparate systems to securely customizably and dynamically collaborate share and or access information.

Further implementation of the present invention allows for providing secure data sharing of integrated disparate systems and the ability to dynamically update computer systems devices among other techniques that cover any type of industry that employs requests or otherwise uses electronic data or communication.

Therefore implementation of the present invention provides a method for dynamically integrating disparate computer aided dispatch CAD systems comprising providing a common exchange information hub communicatively connecting a plurality of CAD systems to the hub deriving common data elements at the hub representing shared data aspects between the plurality of CAD systems mapping data elements of each connected CAD system to the common data element of the hub and facilitating communication between the CAD systems through the hub by transforming information from a first CAD system into a format understood at a second CAD system using the mapping of the common data elements.

Further implementation of the present invention provides a system for integrating disparate computer aided dispatch CAD systems comprising a central hub a plurality of disparate CAD systems communicatively connected to the central hub and a plurality of intelligent data connections each configured to transform information between one of the CAD systems and the hub and between the hub and the CAD system the plurality of intelligent data connections transforming information between formats used by the disparate CAD systems and a common format used by the hub.

Further implementation of the present invention provides a method for dynamically integrating disparate computer aided dispatch CAD systems comprising providing a common exchange information hub communicatively connecting a plurality of CAD systems to the hub and facilitating communication between the CAD systems through the hub by transforming information from a first CAD system into a format understood at a second CAD system whereby information to be shared and updated between the first CAD system and the second CAD system is forwarded to the hub by the first CAD system and is transformed by the hub so as to be understood by a second CAD system.

Further implementation of the present invention provides methods for addressing failures outages or other disconnect events that occur. Such events can occur at a single CAD system or at the common exchange information hub. The illustrated methods provide an illustrative set of methods for dealing with such events.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be set forth or will become more fully apparent in the description that follows and in the appended claims. The features and advantages may be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. Furthermore the features and advantages of the invention may be learned by the practice of the invention or will be obvious from the description as set forth hereinafter.

The following disclosure is grouped into two subheadings namely Dynamically Integrating Disparate Systems and Providing Secure Data Sharing and Dynamically Integrating Disparate Computer Aided Dispatch Systems. The utilization of the subheadings is for convenience of the reader only and is not to be construed as limiting in any sense.

The present invention relates to dynamically integrating disparate data systems. In particular the present invention relates to systems and methods for seamlessly integrating disparate data systems to securely customizably and dynamically collaborate and share real time information and for providing intelligent data sharing that supports multiple standards concurrently and provides automatic conversioning of data information.

Embodiments of the present invention embrace one or more computer readable media wherein each medium may be configured to include or includes thereon data or computer executable instructions for manipulating data. The computer executable instructions include data structures objects programs routines or other program modules that may be accessed by a processing system such as one associated with a general purpose computer capable of performing various different functions or one associated with a special purpose computer capable of performing a limited number of functions. Computer executable instructions cause the processing system to perform a particular function or group of functions and are examples of program code means for implementing steps for methods disclosed herein. Furthermore a particular sequence of the executable instructions provides an example of corresponding acts that may be used to implement such steps. Examples of computer readable media include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM compact disk read only memory CD ROM or any other device or component that is capable of providing data or executable instructions that may be accessed by a processing system.

With reference to a representative system for implementing the invention includes computer device which may be a general purpose or special purpose computer. For example computer device may be a personal computer a notebook computer a personal digital assistant PDA or other hand held device a workstation a minicomputer a mainframe a supercomputer a multi processor system a network computer a processor based consumer electronic device or the like.

Computer device includes system bus which may be configured to connect various components thereof and enables data to be exchanged between two or more components. System bus may include one of a variety of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or a local bus that uses any of a variety of bus architectures. Typical components connected by system bus include processing system and memory . Other components may include one or more mass storage device interfaces input interfaces output interfaces and or network interfaces each of which will be discussed below.

Processing system includes one or more processors such as a central processor and optionally one or more other processors designed to perform a particular function or task. It is typically processing system that executes the instructions provided on computer readable media such as on memory a magnetic hard disk a removable magnetic disk a magnetic cassette an optical disk or from a communication connection which may also be viewed as a computer readable medium.

Memory includes one or more computer readable media that may be configured to include or includes thereon data or instructions for manipulating data and may be accessed by processing system through system bus . Memory may include for example ROM used to permanently store information and or RAM used to temporarily store information. ROM may include a basic input output system BIOS having one or more routines that are used to establish communication such as during start up of computer device . RAM may include one or more program modules such as one or more operating systems application programs and or program data.

One or more mass storage device interfaces may be used to connect one or more mass storage devices to system bus . The mass storage devices may be incorporated into or may be peripheral to computer device and allow computer device to retain large amounts of data. Optionally one or more of the mass storage devices may be removable from computer device . Examples of mass storage devices include hard disk drives magnetic disk drives tape drives and optical disk drives. A mass storage device may read from and or write to a magnetic hard disk a removable magnetic disk a magnetic cassette an optical disk or another computer readable medium. Mass storage devices and their corresponding computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data and or executable instructions that may include one or more program modules such as an operating system one or more application programs other program modules or program data. Such executable instructions are examples of program code means for implementing steps for methods disclosed herein.

One or more input interfaces may be employed to enable a user to enter data and or instructions to computer device through one or more corresponding input devices . Examples of such input devices include a keyboard and alternate input devices such as a mouse trackball light pen stylus or other pointing device a microphone a joystick a game pad a satellite dish a scanner a camcorder a digital camera and the like. Similarly examples of input interfaces that may be used to connect the input devices to the system bus include a serial port a parallel port a game port a universal serial bus USB a firewire IEEE 1394 or another interface.

One or more output interfaces may be employed to connect one or more corresponding output devices to system bus . Examples of output devices include a monitor or display screen a speaker a printer and the like. A particular output device may be integrated with or peripheral to computer device . Examples of output interfaces include a video adapter an audio adapter a parallel port and the like.

One or more network interfaces enable computer device to exchange information with one or more other local or remote computer devices illustrated as computer devices via a network that may include hardwired and or wireless links. Examples of network interfaces include a network adapter for connection to a local area network LAN or a modem wireless link or other adapter for connection to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The network interface may be incorporated with or peripheral to computer device . In a networked system accessible program modules or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. Furthermore in a networked system computer device may participate in a distributed computing environment where functions or tasks are performed by a plurality of networked computer devices.

While those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced in networked computing environments with many types of computer system configurations represents an embodiment of the present invention that enables one or more client computer devices and or one or more servers in a networked configuration to be used to implement methods and or processes disclosed herein to integrate disparate system information and or to provide secure data sharing. While illustrates an embodiment that includes two clients connected to the network alternative embodiments include one client connected to a network or many clients connected to a network. Moreover embodiments in accordance with the present invention also include a multitude of clients throughout the world connected to a network where the network is a wide area network such as the Internet.

In server system represents a system configuration that includes one or more servers that may be used to implement methods and or processes disclosed herein. While illustrates the use of a server system those skilled in the art will appreciate that methods and or processes of the present invention may be performed by the use of a single computer device or without the use of a computer device as will be further discussed below. Thus by way of example server system may be a single server in cases where a single server can process and preserve the entire amount of information required to perform the methods and systems of the present invention as will be further explained below. Alternatively server system may be a conglomeration of servers that process and preserve a high volume of information. Moreover in some embodiments the servers interact in a peer to peer manner and automatically update each other to maintain current information.

The emergence of the Internet has enabled a very large number of computer devices across the world to be connected across a wide area network in order to participate in the utilization or exchange of information. The following is a discussion of a representative embodiment of the present invention that includes a plurality of clients illustrated as clients and that are connected to server system across the Internet illustrated as network to seamlessly integrate disparate data systems to securely customizably and dynamically collaborate and share real time information.

Seamless integration of disparate systems allows for example a user to access information from disparate systems without being aware that the information is obtained from disparate systems. For example the information obtained from the disparate systems include the same look and feel for the user. Thus the user may think that the disparate systems are a single system. Further the look of the obtained information may be different for the user but it is all displayed on a single user interface. Moreover seamless integration includes a user being unaware that a new system has been added to the system. For example the system is dynamic in nature to allow databases and or system resources e.g. XML serial and or data sources to be added modified without having to take the system down.

As has been provided herein embodiments of the present invention embrace a dynamic system that integrates disparate systems. Changes are able to be made on the run without having to turn off the system. For example databases and or data resources may be added removed modified during utilization of the system. Further the system is able to adjust to the particular environment. For example when a node of the system is down redundant data replication allows for other nodes to be used as necessary. Further dynamic integration includes for example the ability to change as the environment requires in order to complete desired tasks. Further dynamic integration includes for example being able to change settings e.g. assign rights roles access etc. without stopping the system providing data redundancies among nodes adapting to the surrounding environment modifying the network status changing routes as nodes become unavailable. Further as shall be discussed herein the dynamically integrated systems may be on and then rules may be applied. Moreover the dynamically integrated systems may be integrated or modified without affecting users or data systems.

With reference to clients and each include a network interface respectively illustrated as network interfaces and and optionally a Web Browser or other user interface respectively illustrated as browsers and . Network interface is a communication mechanism that allows a client such as client to communicate to server system by a network such as the Internet or other network configuration.

Server system includes network interface peer to peer application servers and storage device . Network interface is a communication mechanism that allows server system to communicate with one or more clients via a network . Application servers include one or more disparate servers for processing and or preserving information. Storage device includes one or more storage devices for preserving information such as data objects and or other information to perform the methods enclosed herein. Storage device may be internal or external to servers .

Thus a user or an application program at one of the clients such as client may access information maintained and or preserved by one or more disparate servers . For example a user or application program at one of the clients such as client may request data information from server system . The request includes the receipt of the data information in a particular protocol regardless of the particular protocol that the data information is currently in. Upon establishing authorization to obtain the data information servers locate and return the requested data information in the requested protocol format or standard regardless of which storage device includes the data or a portion thereof and regardless of the original protocol format or standard.

While the discussion above has presented a representative system configuration that may be used to implement methods and or processes of the present invention those skilled in the art will appreciate that the methods of the present invention and processes thereof may be implemented in a variety of different system configurations for dynamically integrating disparate systems and or providing secure data sharing of integrated disparate systems.

For example at least some embodiments of the present invention embrace providing secure data sharing of integrated disparate systems in a FATPOT Peer Intelligence data sharing network that provides real time critical data access from any integrated data source to any authorized individual or system using any integrated computer system application or device. In at least some embodiments clients servers requests for data and their associated means of communications and transmission throughout a FATPOT Peer Intelligence data sharing network are highly functional over countless disparate computer systems databases standards protocols formats applications devices and networks. A FATPOT Peer Intelligence data sharing network is a highly scalable secure interoperable multi system peer to peer network that utilizes methods and processes associated with dynamically accessing converting and transmitting data over networks in real time from disparate data sources to disparate client systems applications and devices. The open standards based nature of the FATPOT Peer Intelligence architecture in association with the powerful capabilities of its core and utility components allows breakthrough integration speeds with today s disparate systems and provides expansion both in terms of the network itself and the needs of peer members.

A FATPOT Peer Intelligence data sharing network is not dependent of any particular operating system application or device and provides maximum flexibility and customization to accommodate differing needs of peer members within a network while maintaining the integrity of the overall system functionality. A FATPOT Peer Intelligence data sharing network removes significant technological barriers that have precluded disparate data systems from working together as one. Examples of such barriers relate to authorization and access control management across business government and or jurisdictional entities maintaining local control over a database without replicating to a central data warehouse limits on scalability end user accountability addressing variances in hardware limitations bandwidth processing power hardware disparity operating system disparity database disparity network disparity protocol standards disparity application disparity and the like.

In a FATPOT Peer Intelligence data sharing environment data flow occurs by request or by a push such as from an external system. In both instances information is transmitted and or received across a plurality of disparate systems applications and or devices across a plurality of disparate networks regardless of the protocol employed by any of the plurality of disparate systems applications and or devices. For such data flow processes systems and methods are employed for identifying which data resources on the plurality of disparate systems the user is allowed to access. Further based on a user s level of authorization for access of information results are seamlessly displayed on a user interface at a client device or on the web in an integrated manner regardless of the disparate systems and plurality of networks from which the results were obtained and transmitted. These systems and methods allow seamless and dynamic integration with other systems applications and devices that access and utilize information obtained for unlimited purposes within or across industries as will be further discussed below.

As provided herein embodiments of the present invention relate to dynamically integrating disparate data systems. In particular embodiments of the present invention relate to systems and methods for providing intelligent data sharing that support multiple standards concurrently and provides auto conversioning of data information.

Embodiments of the present invention embrace a dynamic network for use in seamlessly and customizably integrating disparate data. In at least some embodiments information is dynamically integrated across disparate systems by using a universal language to obtain information across a plurality of disparate systems regardless of the protocol employed by each of the plurality of disparate systems identifying which resource s on the plurality of disparate systems the query is allowed to access based on a level of information for which a user of the client device is allowed access and seamlessly displaying the results of the query on a user interface at the client device in a fully integrated manner regardless of the disparate systems from which the results were obtained.

A universal language is for example a computer language that is capable of universal integration. While reference is made to the utilization of a universal language those skilled in the art will appreciate that other embodiments of the present invention embrace utilization of other protocols and or scripting languages.

In at least some embodiments of the present invention mechanisms are provided that allow for the dynamic sharing of data information in a way that can alter themselves and support multiple standards concurrently. When data is retrieved from a network it can be obtained in any type of standard format file or protocol desired regardless of the standard format or protocol of the data at the source. Examples of such standards include dot slash comma delimited not delimited XML a proprietary protocol or another standard format file or protocol.

In at least one embodiment structure is provided at the data nodes and the network that identifies the request and causes one or more servers to convert the data information as information is being streamed to a client node so that the data will flow. The structure converts the information and delivers it to the requestor in the requested format. Accordingly the structure provides automatic conversioning of data information.

Thus for example if a user s company has an agreement with a corporation that the user s company can access information from the company s record management system but the corporation does not want to disclose its proprietary application program interface the proprietary application program interface only exists on the data mode server and thus the proprietary application program interface is not disclosed.

In at least some embodiments information is automatically transformed. For example when a request for information is made from the data node side it can use itself on itself to automatically transform. So internally one device writes a plug in to a first protocol to get the data and the data is translated to a second desired protocol. Thus at least some embodiments of the present invention provide for a universal protocol translator that enhances data communication among systems.

With reference now to a representative process and system configuration is provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In the embodiment illustrated in a system includes data nodes and a client node. An application connects to a client node. The client node checks and performs authentication. It determines identity whether a valid certificate exists whether the user is allowed into this network if the user has current information and or a current version etc. The client node communicates to the other data nodes throughout the network as well as to the master node.

The master node functions as a central index that remembers where everything is located. Thus when a request for information is made the master node knows where each part of the information is located. As soon as a user provides a request for information to the client node it instantly promulgates back and forth and identifies any or all locations of the requested data information. The more information is given in the request the more narrow the location result.

On the data node side the user can categorize priorities and restrict what information is pushed to what type of individual based on the certificate. Further it can block information to be sent so that the user is not aware that the blocked information exists. Further an embodiment includes a general information contact that is sent back to the requestor to inform that something is there and indicate a person to contact.

In some embodiments pure members of master notes are configured so that when a request is made they are all aware of it. Accordingly if one becomes unavailable busy or inoperable the information is obtainable from a different source. And if all of the master nodes go down at the same time it will still work since the client nodes can communicate to other data nodes for information since they remember and cash the information they previously received.

Two or more master nodes may be referred to as a layer. If the layer is destroyed the client node will spawn crawler. The crawler hops around for a period of time. Parameters are established relating to the number of hops that can be performed and or the length of time that the crawling can occur. So when a client node communicates to another one to request information it keeps hopping and bouncing. Pre established rules may be set such as having one go 20 hops with only one crawler. After it reaches its 20 hops it dies. It may further allow ten crawlers up to 5 hops a day. In some embodiments hops are determined based upon location of data information. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments of the present invention embrace any number of hops and or at any frequency or period of time.

In the public safety industry a user at a remote client enters information e.g. a license plate or other information into a query and dynamically obtains results from a variety of disparate systems such as systems from a variety of different agencies and or precincts. Based on the type of information for which the user is authorized to access the results of the query include a seamless integration of relevant information relating to the information entered. Such results may identify for example the owner of the vehicle whether the vehicle is stolen if the vehicle is registered if the owner has a warrant for his arrest or is a risk to the general population etc. based on the user s pre established level of authorization.

While the methods and processes of the present invention have proven to be particularly useful in the area of public safety those skilled in the art will appreciate that the methods and processes can be used in a variety of different applications and in a variety of different industries to yield a seamless integration of disparate data systems to securely customizably and dynamically collaborate share and or access information.

For example in the healthcare industry a user at a remote client enters information e.g. a patient name or other information into a query and dynamically obtains results from a variety of disparate systems such as systems from a variety of different hospitals practices and or clinics. Based on the type of information for which the user is authorized to access the results of the query include a seamless integration of relevant information relating to the information entered. Such results may identify any unpaid balances owed by the individual prescriptions currently being taken by the individual allergies experienced by the individual recent health problems historical information on the individual s family etc.

Alternatively in the banking industry a user at a remote client enters information e.g. a social security number or other information into a query and dynamically obtains results from a variety of disparate systems such as systems from a variety of different banks financial institutions court systems creditors etc. Based on the type of information for which the user is authorized to access the results of the query include a seamless integration of relevant information relating to the information entered. Such results may identify any unpaid balances owed by the individual assets owned particular details on the assets such as the type of personal property and if there are any current liens financial histories and other relevant information.

Solutions are provided for integration with disparate systems and means for secure data sharing. Accordingly government agencies for example have the ability to securely collaborate and share information with other Government agencies the media and public.

Any of a variety of nodes of the network knows the location within the network of the requested data information or any portion thereof. Thus the information requested is received as requested regardless of the original protocol of the data information. FATPOT Peer Intelligence data sharing network provides real time critical data access from any integrated data source to any authorized individual or system using any integrated computer system application or device. Clients servers requests for data and their associated means of communications and transmission throughout a FATPOT Peer Intelligence data sharing network are highly functional over countless disparate computer systems databases standards protocols formats applications devices and networks.

A FATPOT Peer Intelligence data sharing network is a highly scalable secure interoperable multi system peer to peer network that utilizes unique methods and processes associated with dynamically accessing converting and transmitting data over networks in real time from disparate data sources to disparate client systems applications and devices. An open standards based nature of the Peer Intelligence architecture in association with the powerful capabilities of its core and utility components allows breakthrough integration speeds with current disparate systems and sets the stage for expansion both in terms of the network itself and the needs of peer members.

Peer Intelligence is not dependent on a particular operating system application or device provides maximum flexibility and customization to accommodate differing needs of peer members within the network while maintaining the integrity of overall system functionality. It includes FPScript a proprietary scripting language and other core and utility technologies which are all based on universally accepted development interfacing and communications standards. Peer Intelligence removes significant technological barriers that in the past have precluded disparate data systems from working together. Examples of some barriers include authorization and access control management across business government jurisdictional entities maintaining local control over a database without replicating to a central data warehouse limits on scalability end user accountability addressing variances in hardware limitations bandwidth processing power hardware disparity OS disparity database disparity network disparity protocol standards disparity and application disparity.

Data flow processes occur either by request or by a push from an external system. Information is transmitted and received across a plurality of disparate systems applications and devices across a plurality of disparate networks regardless of the protocol employed by each of the plurality of disparate systems applications and devices. Systems and methods are employed for identifying which data resources on the plurality of disparate systems the user is allowed to access. Based on a level of authorization for a user of the computer or other device is allowed access results are seamlessly displayed on a user interface at a client device or on the web in a fully integrated manner regardless of the disparate systems and plurality of networks from which the results were obtained and transmitted. Such systems and methods allow seamless and dynamic integration with other systems applications and or devices that access and utilize information obtained for unlimited purposes within or across industries.

In at least some embodiments the foundational structure and network architecture for systems and methods of disparate data integration and authorized access comprises a completely interoperable peer to peer network comprised of multiple client server and peer to peer nodes as outlined in

Regarding the data flow process through interoperable structural nodes multiple solutions have been implemented to reduce the amount of network traffic while providing a secure auditable fast and reliable data sharing network. There exist multiple node types to address network congestion security auditing and reliability. An End User Node is where a request is spawned into the network. The Client Node receives the End User Node request and verifies the user and associates the user with a digital certificate. The digital certificate is then passed throughout the network with the request for authentication data segregation and filtering. The Client Node tracks the request for auditing purposes and determines to which Network Layers the request will be distributed. Further the Client Node assists in the reduction of network flooding by queuing End User Node requests based upon multiple factors and determines the number of requests to concurrently distribute into the network. Consideration is given to such factors as Client Node network bandwidth memory and processor load and the current load of peer members. Based upon data congestion and flow the appropriate degree of data transmission management is implemented.

A Network Layer includes multiple Master Nodes. Each Master Node is a peer member of a central indexing network. One of its functions is to track request criteria with search hits from Data Nodes throughout the network. Master Node peer members are clones of each other. When a Master Node is made aware of information it is then replicated to all peer Master Nodes. The Master Nodes provide an interface to quickly lookup the locations of known data records matching the input of indexable criteria. The peer group of Master Nodes include similarly related information i.e public safety information financial information medical information etc. for the ease of management and distribution of the data. When a Client Node distributes the End User Node request it performs a hit test with a lookup to a Master Node to quickly determine known Data Nodes that include information related to the request. The Client Node also spawns Crawlers to navigate to any Data Nodes throughout the network to search for information pertaining to the request in the event that the Network Layer is unaware of a possible request. If the Network Layer is unaware of a location of the requested data the crawlers propagating through the Data Nodes find it and notify the Master Nodes of its location. This approach allows the network to continuously learn and educate itself when information is being searched.

The Network Layer is educated based upon search results as Crawlers navigating throughout the network. The Network Layer and Master Nodes expedite searching and reduce network flow. The Network Layer and Master Nodes are unaware of the content stored at each Data Node but are aware of where information is residing. Thus they function as a directory to information rather than a data warehouse.

A Data Node interfaces with one or more data systems for a specific agency company or locale and provides the interface between their data and the Peer Intelligence data sharing network. The Data Node is able to accept requests from Client Nodes and determine what information to retrieve if any based upon the digital certificate associated with the request. The Data Node may not respond to the search request because the digital certificate and current settings dictate that it should remain silent. Accordingly it replies back with no results except contact information for the agency company or locale. The Data Node may respond back with search results if the digital certificate meets the necessary authorized rights. Further the information is filtered when the Data Node determines that the rights require sending partial information but not all related information. The information sent back is based upon settings put into place for that Data Node for the group rights roles and or identity information contained within the digital certificate making the request.

After the information is received at the Client Node it is formatted for the End User Node. The format to send to the End User Node is determined and configured at the Client Node. Depending upon the Network Layer for the request the format type is specified within the digital certificate and the available formatting rules available. The Client Node performs the formatting translation before delivering to the End User Node. There can be an unlimited number of formatting rules for each Client Node. Users of the system are able to design and develop their own formatting rules to meet their needs. Some examples of formatting include XML HTML SGML comma delimited proprietary formats etc.

When Crawlers are spawned by a Client Node to navigate to any Data Nodes throughout the network to search for information pertaining to the request sent by an End User Node the number of Crawlers where they navigate and how long they live depend upon multiple factors. Crawler patterns are optimized to utilize the network to its full capacity. Thus in one embodiment every request does not crawl to every destination. The more crawlers are processed the more accurate the Master Nodes become and the less likely it is to have a crawler hit a Data Node that the master node didn t know about.

In one embodiment there is as much information as possible at the Master nodes which makes the role of the crawlers less relevant. This means a crawler can be dropped without worrying as much about missing something important.

When a Data Node receives a crawl request it queues it up into a low priority job list. It is more desirable to get out the records people know are present than to check on the endless lookups coming in from all sources. The Data Node checks the jobs in the queue when it has the opportunity thus providing idle processing. If a queue becomes too big the crawl requests that have been around the longest are dumped. The ones at the top have the greatest effect so dropping the crawler will have the most drastic effect. The ones at the bottom are thus dropped first and then the higher ones as needed.

A crawl out to another data node crawler replies the status of the current workload such as in bandwidth and CPU usage. If either exceeds a particular threshold crawl requests are stopped for a short period.

In public safety and other industries it is desirable that the most relevant records be grouped geographically. Peer Intelliegence crawlers data nodes have a geographical association in latitude and longitude. Crawlers are sent out first to a general locale and near locations of known hits and then are branched outward. For example the data systems in a particular county state are higher on the pyramid and have greater priority over searches from other states and countries.

Bandwidth bottlenecks are overcome by embodiments of the present invention. Redundant servers offload the crawler search work CPU bottleneck but the network pipe to an agency is generally fixed. Transport layer compression as well as keeping communications brief and to a minimum helps with overall system performance.

Data Nodes remember and study crawler behaviors and effectiveness to learn optimal routing patterns. Master Nodes provide a smooth operation of large scale Peer Intelligence networks. Data redundancy ensures that a system never goes down entirely. Master Nodes include potentially large lists of records. To keep a large number of records such as a million plus records synchronized between master nodes Cerebro is employed.

Cerebro assigns an incremental version number to each addition modification deletion of a record and propagates it to its peers. Where Master Nodes are peers under Cerebro all modifications to indexes are propagated to every master node. If a Master Node is down for a period of time when it comes back online it is immediately informed of the record modifications it missed while offline. Redundancy and load balancing are provided. Since all Master Nodes are peers any node can service another node s requests. If a Master Node becomes too busy it offloads its work to another Master Node. Also Client Nodes randomly pick a Master Node which gives a more even distribution of work load to all peers in the Master Node core.

Cerebro allows for Peer Intelligence to be scaled and for the handling of larger inquiry requests. As a result several lower cost lower performance machines can collectively do the same work as a few hi cost hi performance servers.

Thus in at least some embodiments of the present invention a Peer Intelligence data sharing network is created that includes one or more from any of a system architecture suite a technologies suite and or an applications suite to perform or otherwise provide one or more embodiments of the present invention. For example a system architecture suite includes architecture systems and methods for data access retrieval and or transmission. Further as a representative example a technologies suite includes such technologies as FATPOT Scrip a universal scripting language that is able to facilitate integration of disparate systems applications and devices and is able to run across multiple platforms and or over multiple technologies FATPOT Cerebro a direct active data pass through server that doesn t require a query request from a client to send to one or many clients the latest updated information available from associated networks and or programs FATPOT CADi a computer aided dispatch interface FATPOT Data Broker FATPOT Call Notify FATPOT DataSync dynamically updating computer devices systems FATPOT Intelligent Sockets FATPOT Sockets communication or data transmission between client and server programs in a network FATPOT Message Switch and or FATPOT Router relay . A representative applications suite can include one or more of Mystique PSI Powwow Landmark Enfuego FATPOT Patient Care Record Mapview and Crime Analysis . Further functions are provided that are available in applications over other devices. Moreover while client devices include computer devices as discussed above embodiments of the present invention also embrace clients that are not computer devices.

FATPOT Intelligent Sockets provides for communication or data transmission between client and server programs in a network through application program interfaces. It is a multi threaded layer such that it uses one object to interface with any number of open communications channels. It provides the ability to securely and efficiently manage multi connections. It consolidates application program interfaces that currently exist in multiple locations and provides many types of socket connections including but not limited to the industry standard SSL as well as a more advanced connection. It provides an easy to use application interface for managing connections as well as over disparate devices. Examples of such connections include local area network cards 802.11 hot spots cellular GPRS M A COM EDACS and OpenSky system connections and so forth.

FATPOT Sockets provides secure connectivity to multiple wireless and broadband networks simultaneously and provides the capabilities for the communications layer to utilize TCP IP and UDP protocols simultaneously or independently while connected concurrently. Hybrid use of these and other protocols is also made possible through FATPOT Sockets . An example includes a desire to use encryption at times and not at other times. This may be due to disparate network utilization and possible network constraints or restrictions therein.

FATPOT Sockets is built in encryption that complies with federal and proprietary requirements and also has the capability to strip unnecessary data overhead ie. HTML tags . It also compresses data for maximum transactional efficiency and offers the capability of streaming clumping and or trickle feeding data packets depending on bandwidth and other performance mechanisms associated with disparate networks available throughout Peer Intelligence . These capabilities are particularly important in environments where critical data is efficiently sent through a very tight bandwidth. The intelligence in FATPOT Sockets to coordinate these data bandwidth needs in very complex technological environments is very powerful.

A capability within FATPOT Sockets relates to its ability to intelligently send and receive data packets over disparate public and private radio networks. Such methods and processes occur based on the ability to examine categorize prioritize segregate and route data packets to clients systems applications and or devices over available disparate radio networks. The key element involved herein is the ability to intelligently match data packet sizes and the associated critical nature of the data with available networks and their associated bandwidth capabilities. Business rules are applied such that specified data packets e.g. small critical etc. are sent at a specified time over specified networks to specified client systems applications and devices. For example the most critical data packets are sent over tight bandwidth networks. When higher bandwidth networks are available larger data packets are sent through to the clients.

Some additional capabilities of FATPOT Sockets include an intelligent network selection that utilizes available devices based upon availability and user selection a transaction priority so that transactions are sent over specific networks based upon availability and user selection a transaction queuing to queue up data packets to be sent to specific networks based upon availability and user selection an example of this would be to not send large data packets over tight bandwidth networks and a network transaction routing that routes specific data to networks based upon availability of the appropriate networks and user identified selection. The routing is also capable of sending certain data packets over different available networks. An example of this is that a critical email may be sent over one of many different available networks but if there is an attachment of restrictive network proportions the attachment may be queued and routed upon the availability of a higher bandwidth environment. Such capabilities create efficient network utilization and provide for the highest job effectiveness for users within Peer Intelligence .

FATPOT Socket Relay is another capability of FATPOT Sockets . It routes data over concurrent sockets to multiple formats such as but not limited to such data transport standards as TCP IP UDP IP HTTP SOAP Serial Line ODBC etc.

FATPOT Call Notify system is a client side peer member of the Peer Intelligence data sharing network. It interfaces directly in to the Peer Intelligence network in many different ways including but not limited to interfacing directly in nodes as well as servers such as Cerebro CADi or a Data Broker . Based upon business rules applied to specific dispatch information Call Notify is able to examine information and determine the appropriate segregation and routing to external data applications systems and devices. It is capable of formatting data into the appropriately chosen protocols and works as a seamless pass through agent routing key data to the interfaced systems applications and devices. A small sampling of the possible systems applications and devices that may be interfaced to FATPOT Call Notify are paging mapping GPS email cellular mobile and other clients records systems servers zetron station toning statistical analysis media and the like. Call Notify is able to format any combination of information within a network and route the information concurrently to any combination of external applications systems and devices associated with the network. FATPOT Call Notify also uses combinations of internet protocols which include but are not limited to SOAP HTMS Web services XML and so forth. These are also applied by appropriately configured business rules.

FATPOT DataSync is a client server technology that dynamically auto updates computer systems and associated digital devices with computer programs and other relevant data. This included but is not limited to the technology to software updates patches and full installations. DataSync is able to automatically detect disparate public and private radio networks. It intelligently utilizes available radio networks and dynamically coordinates transmission of appropriately sized data packets in a trickling feeding method so as not to consume inordinate amounts of available bandwidth. It identifies when to send data and how much data to send based upon available public and private radio networks. Working in conjunction with other associated technologies DataSync data is sent over secure sockets FATPOT Intelligent Sockets and in whatever protocol and format the receiving client requires e.g. FATPOT Script or Data Broker . Based upon a system s access control lists and applicable business rules authenticated users may access system programs documents files and other authorized job related data. DataSync performs in the background allowing other prioritized data transactions to utilize the necessary bandwidth for job critical needs. DataSync works without user intervention on the client side can alter packet sizes to conform to the capabilities of available network devices and can alter the frequency of data transmission based upon the network device capability. The capability to enable disable restrict is all available as part of DataSync .

DataSync dynamically auto updates computer systems and or other digital devices with the latest versions of computer programs fixes patches or other relevant data. It further dynamically installs applications on computer systems and other digital devices intelligently utilizes available radio networks and their associated bandwidths and sends appropriately sized data packets by a trickling feeding method.

FATPOT Script is a universal scripting language that is designed to be extremely flexible and facilitates integration of disparate systems application and devices. The scripting language runs across multiple platforms and over multiple technologies and can be incorporated into existing languages via COM DLL LIB or a stand a lone executable. It can be digitally signed and distributed guaranteeing that it was unaltered identifying who developed the script when to enable disable the script who can execute it and where it can be executed. The scripting language incorporates many key integration capabilities ranging from but not limited to UDP sockets TCP sockets FATPOT advanced socket protocol serial communications database communications file manipulation operating system access parser and regular expressions.

FATPOT Script can sit on either end of a transaction and configure data such that a seamless data receipt and transmission occurs. Data is integrated into FATPOT Script upon receipt thus making it very simple to output said data to any protocol of systems servers applications and devices almost instantaneously.

Uniform methods for querying receiving and transmitting data from disparate sources are available. One example in the Homeland Security market is the Global Justince XML standard FATPOT Script which addresses the purposes of utilizing open required or other proprietary protocol standards that might need to be applied in differing circumstances and markets. Through the use of FATPOT Script the process of integrating conforming and maintaining protocol standards are provided.

A variety of capabilities are provided by one or more embodiments of the present invention. For example automated daily logs tie across all systems to allow the automated recording of daily activities. Calls time stamps free form narratives anything relating to training education and automatically populated into the daily log. This removes a dependency on paper based logging. Field reporting NFIRS sends report dynamically to a particular jurisdiction. Inventory provides full enterprise level inventory management and or property management chain of custody up to the management level. It tracks and manages funding of accounts delegation of responsibility to departments for managing accounts. This trickles to a first responder allows the item to be tracked instantly from a department s inventory all the way to a billing company.

A manage locations floor plans and or plans for commercial areas and the development of premise history from disparate records management systems. Thus response to an incident gives a full array of information to give knowledge to a response. This manage locations capability is particularly desirable for such industries where location is important such as the fire fighting industry.

A personnel management capability provides a roster and intelligent scheduling shifts an ability to track training licensing and certification for all associated personnel performance recording fitness reports in a desired manner for managing personnel.

Client Programs including mobile clients such as but not limited to PSI Powwow LANDMARK ENFUEGO etc. are client programs to Peer Intelligence and are available within a public safety suite. Each program offers a secure encrypted communications suite with one or more of the following capabilities total mobile client integration with cross jurisdiction cross agency CAD systems for CAD calls and silent dispatching interagency communication of real time vital information Attempts to Locate Hot sheets Amber Alerts etc. access by MDTs mobile data terminals to NCIC state county local agencies Internet and intranet records databases and alerts i.e. Amber Alerts etc. built in buddy lists online notifications instant chat and email with all users and agencies across the system access information stored in multiple agencies which use disparate operating systems applications and databases trigger application processes within the agencies systems applications and databases drive these information exchanges and processes using national standards as outlined in the Specification section of the RFP and as approved by the PDCC listen for evaluate and transform messages based on pre defined business rules and security parameters then use the information derived from these messages to trigger other processes in disparate partner systems and or access information through existing applications or using a standard web browsers also using a wide variety of disparate hardware options including servers desktops laptops tablets and handheld devices.

A verification and authentication capability allows upon proper login from a client a public safety suite server to convert a verified username and password into an MD5 format. Usernames and passwords are not stored or sent out with requests as open text. The authentication process within the Peer Intelligence data sharing network involves user authentication into unlimited servers. Digital certificates are used to distribute requested data based upon authorized access control. The certificates define identity as well as the authorized rights associated with the defined identity. An example of this in the Homeland Security sector for example would be a Police Chief whose rights to privileged data sources are far more extensive than a part time dispatcher. Although both are verified as system users the access available is very different and the authentication process and associated digital certificates permit access to an appropriate level of information based upon the identity and rights associated therein. Different servers within Peer Intelligence authenticate rights based upon appropriately verified requests inside the network. For example if the part time dispatcher asks for information that is not authorized then the server will not respond to the request with that information for that particular identity. The request will also be logged as a possible management auditing resource.

In Peer Intelligence there is a second layer of authentication. A server within the Peer Intelligence network is a back up authenticator as the first request from an agency server has already verified and authenticated the user initially. That agency server also has to be a trusted server within the system to allow it to make a request to another server within the system. Thus the second layer precludes unauthorized entrance of both the requesting server and the originating client making the request.

Access control mechanisms embrace a digital certificate identity trust lists access control lists user classification rules based on username or group classification and trust issuing authority.

FATPOT Intelligent Look Ups is a capability associated with the querying of data. Based on data requested possible matching data sources with associated data fields to those entered in the request appear in the interface automatically as possible relational sources of the queried information. This process saves a client user significant time as one click of a search button then covers all possible look ups on the particular information entered. This technology is also extended to use geographical and other enhancements. For example if a requestor only desires information on a person in a particular county instead of from the entire state the search is configured to accommodate that specific information instead of searching more data sources than the requestor desires.

Dynamic data deployment allows for system modifications at the server level that are automatically deployed and immediately functional by a user on the network without user intervention.

Histories of inquiries as well as AVL are kept as histories on the server side as set up by the network administration for each customer. Histories are also cached on the client side for quick recovery to help with report writing needs. All transactions are logged at every point passed on the network. An initial log is made when the request to push a call is received. A log is also made at the final push into the recipient CAD system as well as any point the transaction may pass along the way. Messages are logged to a database at each node. If a database is unavailable then the messages are logged to a text file. The log file may be imported into a relational database for review with database reporting software. In addition to logging transaction histories network conditions and failures are also stored in system logs.

Session persistence is available throughout Peer Intelligence . In the event of communication failure when communication is reestablished a handshaking protocol is used to identify and ensure that lost data is re transmitted. The status can be monitored from the FATPOT CADi monitor screen. All transactions are TCP IP level connections incorporating software level TCP ACKS.

In at least some embodiments dynamic paging is provided. For example two way paging is provided for the exchange of information. In one embodiment when a user responds to a pager the response goes back to the server and may be forwarded to one or more clients. Further a user may make a request by using a pager to another pager or computer device. The request is authenticated and then answered with the requested information. Further a user of a computer device can be contacted via his her pager through the system when he she is not available or not logged into the system. Further in some embodiments such dynamic data exchange takes place via instant messaging. Moreover a remote user may make a request e.g. via telephone pager instant messaging or in another electronic manner and can receive the requested information electronically without even being logged into a computer system.

At least some embodiments of the present invention embrace six layers of disparity to unity namely the operating system CAD RMS and other database systems and protocols client programs PSI Call Notify Media etc radio networks GPRS M A COM T Mobile Verizon etc. internet protocols standards XML Sockets Web services etc. and device protocols and formats PC laptop blackberry pager cell phone iPAQ.

FATPOT Terminal Emulation relates to relaying information from the terminal server. Clients talk to a server which always has a connection to another server. So if a client loses connection when communications come back up the exchange of information begins where it left off. A server may be positioned on the LAN as a UNIX box and other servers. Clients out in field connect to Terminal Broker . That connection is encrypted which prevents someone from connecting in seeing data and or accessing to RMS. Multiple terminal broker clients may connect in and share the same terminal emulation session to the server. A terminal session may have tech support or unlimited possible clients connect into the same session and a client can join a session just as if they were sitting in front of the same keyboard typing.

Cerebro provides a direct active data pass through server that does not require a query request from a client to send to one or many clients the latest updated information available from associated networks and programs.

Scripts Sockets and programmatic business rules apply to identification examination analysis conversion segregation caching routing and transmission of data to associated systems applications and devices are written and function according to the protocols and formats of both the active pass through side of Peer Intelligence Cerebro as well as the passive query respond side Data Broker .

Mystique is the front end application framework that utilizes the technologies including FATPOT Script definitions rules and so forth. It includes capabilities to communicate to a server define obtain definitions e.g. based upon the login and confirm or determine which definitions to obtain to change the display. Thus when a user logs in Mystique will authenticate to the server and obtain the appropriate scripted definitions based on the login and alter the display for the application. The display becomes an unlimited number of applications.

A CADi message switch provides scalability security and flexibility. The encrypted and access control management peer to peer architecture allows Computer Aided Dispatch CAD systems to plug in and be part of the secure network. This allows instant interoperability within the entire network. The Peer Intelligence network is set for expansion and the addition of new agencies systems is relatively simple. The new agency is integrated by adding their CADi message switch to the trusted list and applying any necessary business rules. All other capabilities within the network become available to a new agency system upon plugging into the system.

Functions and capabilities of a FATPOT Message Switch include access control lists certificate verification rights management business rules analyzer data analyzer data publisher input translators output translators protocol translator VPN technology supporting RSA AES SSL session persistence unlimited protocol support dynamically adding and or removing data exchange standards XML open standards proprietary APIs ODBC etc .

In a Peer Intelligence data sharing network Rules may be controlled at the individual agency level. Each agency jurisdiction group controls authorization and transmission of its own proprietary data. Moreover each controls to whom it will be made available. Furthermore each agency determines where it will receive calls from and what types of calls will be accepted under different scenarios priorities. Rules involve any of the fields transmitted including but not limited to nature address time priority GPS coordinate etc. Each system receiving the information may apply additional rules to restrict the data that is deemed not necessary thus reducing the amount of traffic over the network. Customization of these rule sets is a significant feature in the FATPOT suite of tools.

A FATPOT Peer Intelligence data sharing network may either function as a centralized decentralized or hybrid network. For example a hybrid network is made up of centralized and decentralized networks. This provides flexibility for the easy integration of cities or counties that already have an infrastructure in place.

In one embodiment Net Motion relates to providing a selection as to which network device to send traffic through. In a particular embodiment it is in an application layer where it indicates that it needs to send one chunk instead of another because the radio network is active available. In at least some embodiments the program is running and doesn t allow this to happen on this program while a user is on this device pause it now or allow it to run. Thus for example an update program is not allowed to run on a particular network. Alternatively capabilities are allowed to occur with some restrictions such that it provides high efficiency.

Relating to system design a main message switch processing occurs in a separate thread and or process from the network communications module.

The FATPOT Peer Intelligence data sharing network for CAD provides the ability for all CAD information to be available to all users and dispatch centers simultaneously or independently. Provided access rights are established . A message can just as easily be sent to a single destination as well as broadcast to multiple ones or even to every individual agency on the network. For example in a mass casualty incident a single dispatch center may forward incident information to as few or as many of the surrounding dispatch centers to assist as the need would dictate.

Relating to identity users are able to have more than one identity within a system because users can play different roles.

In at least some embodiments dynamic paging is provided. For example two way paging is provided for the exchange of information. In our embodiment when a user responds to a pager the response goes back to the server and than can be forwarded to one or more clients. Further a user may make a request by paging another pager or computer device. The request is authenticated and then answered with the requested information. Further a user of a computer device can be contacted via his her pager through the system when he she is not available or not logged in to the system. Further in some embodiments such dynamic data exchange takes place via instant messaging. Moreover a remote user may make a request e.g. via telephone pager instant messaging or in another electronic manner and can receive the requested information electronically without even being logged into a computer system.

In some embodiments a training module is provided that enables training or any other form of online education.

Relating to Terminal Emulation there includes a terminal emulator that is server side that relays information from a terminal server. The terminal emulation server communicates to our server. Clients out in the field talk to a server and the server has a connection to the real terminal emulator server. Thus if for some reason the client loses connection the terminal emulator doesn t disconnect the client session. The client session is still active because the server is keeping it active. The heartbeats are going everything else is going forward so everything is behaving the way a real terminal emulator server is expecting it. It just acts like no one is typing in the keyboard right then. But the server is positioned on the local area network on the same network as the UNIX box and other servers that are going to do terminal emulation. Thus the clients out in the field connect to the terminal broker and that connection is encrypted. Thus you never have to worry about someone somehow connecting in and having access to your RMS system because the clients out in the field are connecting to the terminal broker in an encrypted manner and the terminal broker then talks to the terminal emulator server locally.

In one embodiment there are multiple terminal broker clients connected in and sharing the same terminal emulation session to the terminal emulator server. So you have the terminal emulator server e.g an HP system and then since we have a terminal broker the broker sends and receives keyboard and data information from multiple terminal broker clients and sends it to both locations. Thus training can be performed. So if I m doing a terminal session and suddenly I have a problem and tech support is going to hop in I can allow that terminal broker client to join my session and we both are sharing the same session just as if we are sitting in front of the same keyboard typing.

Socket Relay is an application that runs as window service in the background. It includes a series of open socket listeners that are ready for communication and attached to each listener is a set of rules for relaying that information. It includes a list of rules. There s a port that it listens on and there is a mode of communication that is expecting data to arrive. These modes can vary from regular rod TCP IP sockets to UDP data packets to secure the sockets. It is also adapted for serial communications and listening on all ports. As information arrives on the socket in a format it is converted based on the rules of that format to a plain text description of the information and then it is passed into the rule for that listener. The rules determine where the information should be routed to and in what format. Further it can be routed to one or more destinations. For a one to one relay of information one destination is set up and the same protocol may be chosen for outgoing data as the protocol arrives. So if you were listening on SSL you would send out to that one location also on SSL. The socket relay can also be used as a translator for example if you had an application behind a firewall at two different sites and you wanted to transmit information securely over secure socket layer and that application does not support SSL then you can put a socket relay within the firewall at both locations.

At the source location the application sends regular sockets the socket relay receives that and according to its rule you convert that to SSL and send it out to the second socket relay. A second socket relay receives SSL and according to its rule format back to regular data and forward that on to the application. So a tunnel is created that translates from regular TCP IP sockets to a secure socket Layer.

A socket relay may also be adapted to broadcast to more than one destination. This is helpful for splitting a normally connection protocol such as TCP IP. Each computer is capable of listening to the data that comes across from the source location and the rules set up on the socket relay application determine which one of the multiple destinations is allowed to send information back. So an established rule may include to forward the information onto computer A and on computers B and C it would also like to listen in or spy on the traffic speeding past back and forth but not have any input not be able to write near that dialog. This can be used for creating redundancy. A single port comes into one computer. That computer can be rock solid running on Linux or off some system that has very little application and its sole purpose is to stay up running. It doesn t have to worry about crashes from other software applications.

The information from the socket relay on that computer can be split out to multiple destinations or multiple servers. Each one of those servers may be running on a different machine at potentially different locations. With that sort of configuration the socket relay acts as a redundant switch and it will forward that information on to each and every server all to be handled separately. Any one of those servers can reply back to the connection and forward it back to the original requester.

The socket relay can also narrow its rules down to segregate based on the IP address of the incoming connection. This sort of configuration also acts as a software router. Multiple computers may connect into one listener and each of those computers send information on to different applications. The socket relay may look at the IP address of the incoming connection and forward that connection on to a particular server.

Thus for example you could specify if it comes from an internal computer. If the incoming connection is within a local LAN you would forward that connection on to an in house data server and then if the data comes in from an external IP address it wants to see productions so you forward it on to your productions server. So both your internal development work stations and your outside public computers all connect to the same location and the socket router looks at that information and figures out what destination server to forward the connection onto.

A socket relay includes the ability to incorporate load balancing to monitor the computers that are destinations for their processor loads as well as bandwidth loads and able to selectively choose which destination out of multiple to forward connections based on the load capacity of the destination computer. Another application of the socket relay program is that it can be used for network sharing. You can set up a dummy server on a socket relay computer that can have a dial up access or single point of internet access out to the internet and you could have multiple computers within the local LAN all connect to the socket relay on that gateway computer. That socket relay will forward those connections out over the internet or dial up or whatever connection is available to the host server. Thus you have multiple clients connecting into a socket relay all go into a single server and the computer of the socket relay is running as a shared network computer.

At least some embodiments of the present invention include mapping capabilities which may be referred to as a map client. In one embodiment a window provides a graphical representation of a geographical location and includes functionality for the tracking of dynamic objects or objects which move around or locations that are dynamically added.

A map client renders a geographical representation map of a building an area a city a state county a country or other geographical representation that is title based and includes a collection of images that are small puzzle pieces that are dynamically put together to draw the map. This provides for sufficient use of memory speed and flexibility. The images can be a collection of street maps elevation maps aerial photographs satellite images or any representation needed. The collection of tiles is able to be separated as different layers. So a different layer of tiles will be rendered depending on a zoom level setting. Rendering is a based on a current coordinate by latitude longitude and zoom level.

Further the geographical representation provides a user interface. A user can employ a mouse to zoom in and out or to rotate the map. In one embodiment a small map is also included to provide a convenient alternate view and to allow a user to zoom in and out so the user has a high level view the whole area while the main map is centered on a small section.

In a further embodiment a map client includes the ability to plot locations. For example in the public safety industry the locations can be cars CAD calls accidents etc. Thus CAD calls may be plotted on the map as they are received. A user can switch to a split screen mode with the map client and select a CAD call and the CAD call will be placed on the center of the map and the user can see exactly where that call is located and information pertaining to the call. A user can click on the call on the map to highlight which call it is in the CAD display. Such functionality is also available for inventory items and to be able to listen and receive local GPS device signals. Further a user uses a GPS device in association with a client computer device to have the client listen for signals and dynamically plot on the map in real time.

In a further embodiment the map provides tracking features for dynamic objects. A user selects multiple locations cars calls etc. and tracks them. The map automatically zooms around the locations that are selected or allows the user to select a location and it automatically centers on that location and then rotates as the particular unit rotates. So if the individual is driving a car it will follow the car and dynamically represent all movements. Locations can also be assigned a wave point which is a destination factor. Once a wave has been set an arrow appears on the map that points to that wave point. So if a user is driving a vehicle a call to which the user is assigned is be set as the wave point and an arrow always points in the direction of the call. Thus the user can just follow the arrow to the location. Indicators are also available that represent where other units are located on the map. Further there is a compass that can be toggled on off to show an orientation and will rotate with the map.

In some embodiments layers are selectively defined in the mapping technology. Each layer is a particular category or sub category and can be selectively enabled disabled. Layers can be used to identify inventory events resources occurrences or the like can be dynamically blended in such a way as to allow the user to control the mount each layer is present. In one embodiment the control is provided as a slider to control blended amounts of each layer.

A login verification authentication process may be used in multiple locations throughout the applications that we have and it is done differently based upon the needs for each component or piece of the application. Client applications perform authentication by going over to the public safety suite server using a username and password. When that goes across the information is then MD 5 d and compared with other MD 5s so that none of the passwords are ever stored open text so someone could just look at it and figure out what it is.

The authentication process depends upon what it is for and whether it occurs at multiple locations. When the client logs in the server will respond back to the client indicating that these are the type of capabilities this user has so you need to make sure that they are not allowed to do those types of things to see it on the screen. Then what will happen is if for some reason the client application was wrong and it went across the server the server can say sorry although you sent me this you are not allowed to do it so I m not doing it. So you have the client trying to stop a user from doing something and if for some reason there was a mistake in the software the server is the secondary back up trying to prevent or guard against it

Further you have from the client to the caddy and what that process does after it logs in the client receives its filters from the server that the client might have set for his own profile and only showing me latent calls and only showing me minutes that are online. So at that point the client talks to the caddy and indicates the username password and filter. Then the caddy will then talk back to the public safety server and says hey this guy is asking for this information and this is his username and password. Is this really him And then the server takes that information double checks that it is that person that has those type of rights and then communicates back appropriately.

The server double checks it again because it has already allowed that person to log in. But then the client is talking to the caddy which is another person that you need to verify. The client is talks to the caddy and the caddy talks to the public safety server to say hey is this really this guy and is he allowed access to the caddy Upon authentication the server will allow it to happen. The caddy is added to the public safety suite server s trusted list to say this caddy is allowed to ask those types of questions and I ll talk to him so in case somebody else tries to talk to him he won t talk back to him. So only if you are trusted will the server even perform those types of authentication commands. Each goes through a couple of different processes to get authenticated. And clients have to be trusted by the server so that the server will communicate back to the caddy to say yes or no even. So in at least some embodiments the caddy is on the client. Otherwise they could use brute force and go through every single known possible word combination and number combination in history to finally get passed. This way there is no way to allow for unauthorized access.

If you log into a client and the client is going to talk to the server and ultimately talk to the caddy but the problem is we don t want just anybody connecting to the caddy for information so the caddy then itself asks the server saying do you know this guy Is he right Yes he is. But for anybody even to ask the server do you know this guy you have to be trusted in the first place. The caddy is the one that is asking the server to verify.

But see we use the same technique for the media webpage and we use the same technique for the GPS broker but those servers are trusted to the public safety suite server so the public safety suite server knows it is allowed to respond and talk to say yes or no to those other servers. Because if you don t do that if you don t even put that roadblock there anybody could talk and ask the server Is this the right username or password And over time you d get it. So you only talk to trusted devices.

Relating to the login verification authentication with Peer Intelligence on the public safety suite server since we trusted that login it will associate that login identification with a digital certificate that represents that login. So if you do a look up that digital certificate is what floats around and is used to verify and or determine access rights. A digital certificate is trusted as it goes around. So that is what happens and based upon that it knows what type of information you can even be aware of or for instance if you look up a particular user he may not even know he had a citation because you are not even allowed to even know anything that deals with citations but if you are allowed to know a citation you may not be allowed to have any information only a contact person or yes but only these type of fields or here are all the information. Thus it is based on authorized rights.

Thus embodiments of the present invention relate to dynamically integrating disparate data systems. In particular embodiments of the present invention relate to systems and methods for providing intelligent data sharing that supports multiple standards concurrently and provides auto conversioning of data information. Further embodiments of the present invention relate to systems and methods for seamlessly integrating disparate data systems to securely customizably and dynamically collaborate and share real time information.

Embodiments of the present invention embrace a dynamic network for use in seamlessly and customizably integrating disparate data over any type or number of protocols. In at least some embodiments information is dynamically integrated across disparate systems by using a universal language to perform an electronic query for information across a plurality of disparate systems regardless of the protocol employed by any of the plurality of disparate systems identifying which resources on the plurality of disparate systems the query is allowed to access based on a level of information for which a user is allowed access and seamlessly displaying the results of the query on a user interface at the client device in a fully integrated manner regardless of the disparate systems from which the results were obtained.

Further some embodiments of the present invention embrace multiple industries sharing data. For example in some embodiments police forces emergency crews fire protection forces hospitals doctors and the like share data from the various disparate computer systems. Thus while the following discussion of systems and methods of the present invention is focused on the area of public safety embodiments of the present invention embrace accessing any type of information across disparate systems and industries for use of the information. Not only can data be shared that is obtained from user entered information requests queries but seamless transmittal of data entered by users within programs applications reports or the like can also be available to all associated users within a transaction based upon proper authorization to relevant data.

Some embodiments relating to public safety technology solutions include a variety of client software applications e.g. FATPOT PSI Powwow System FATPOT Public Safety Suite FATPOT Landmark System FATPOT Enfuego FATPOT Landmark Handheld Pocket PC Blackberry Palm FATPOT Patient Care Record System etc. a data sharing network e.g FATPOT Peer Intelligence FATPOT CADi FATPOT Call Notify FATPOT IP Router etc. FATPOT DataSync Mapping and GPS clients and servers e.g. FATPOT GPS Gateway FATPOT GPS Broker FATPOT Mapview FATPOT Mapclient etc. and communications FATPOT Media Access Amber Alert Server Ticker High Priority Alert Ticker s Radio Notification Interface 911 Interface etc. .

Some embodiments of the present invention provide software and hardware solutions for all levels of government the media and the public or other industries. Solutions are provided for integration with disparate systems and means of secure data sharing. Accordingly government agencies for example have the ability to securely collaborate and share information with other Government agencies the media and public or other industries.

Some embodiments include a highly functional software package which supports real time data inquiry needs of public safety officers in the field at headquarters and dispatch centers. It addresses the need to have a reliable access to central crime information databases and other pertinent data systems over wireless and broadband networks for police fire EMS and other public safety agencies using a variety of operating systems and hardware devices without requiring all agencies to use the same platform. The design assures complete security with access limited to authorized users only. Its operational characteristics are responsive to the variety of difficult situations that confront officers in the field. It allows them to do their job without requiring them to become computer experts.

In addition to providing access to databases the system provides a variety of messaging customization and convenience capabilities that dramatically enhance its operational values. For example an authorized individual can instantly broadcast Amber Alert messages to all users a select group or users within a particular geographical location using a variety of devices e.g. hand held pager computer system etc thus speeding up response time to a missing child situation. Among other features it supports a secure digital full bodied interagency email instant messaging discussions and real time notification of the user s status.

Embodiments are not dependent on any particular IP wireless communication service. Accordingly embodiments enhance the ability of an unlimited number of public safety agencies to communicate with each other in real time and to cooperate in the resolution of incidents that encompass multiple jurisdictions. When an officer is in motion and moves from one wireless transmission area to another or when a transmission is interrupted for any reason the system can pick up the session where it left off once a connection is reestablished without losing data from the session before losing connection and without requiring any intervention on the part of the officer. It maintains histories facilitates access to multiple databases improves server performance and simplifies file installations and updates.

Some data systems of the present invention provide i access to NCIC III State County Local Agency RMS other Agency RMS Internet and Intranet Records and alerts ie Amber Alert and ii a user friendly data entry process to enter search criteria. Based upon the entered criteria the system automatically determines what systems are able to provide the requested information. Once initiated searches concurrently take place searching all selected databases e.g. FATPOT Intelligent Look Ups as key information is entered into the query screens regarding the desired information about objects persons vehicles properties and other items relating to public safety. Thus a system is able to determine which databases can be queried depending upon the information entered for submission. Further data systems of the present invention provide i a built in buddy list online notifications high priority information alerts and tickers instant chat and email with all users and agencies throughout the network ii a roaming profile of user e.g. All customizable settings follow the user login and not the machine. iii A customizable theme support e.g. Users have the ability to select toggle create color themes for day or night use iv easy to understand icons that depict the current status of inquiries events v icons designed for touch screens mouse navigation and hot keys vi audible alerts for incoming events and messages vii an ability to remember the work flow of users and pre select inquiries to reduce the input necessary for users viii being able to perform sub inquiries without additional data entry e.g. Users can instantiate new inquiries from returned results. ix a history for each user allowing them to retrieve previous inquiries without performing data entry x integration with CAD RMS systems for CAD calls and silent dispatching xi interagency communication of real time vital information ATLs Hotsheets and or xii capabilities for Dispatchers Patrol Detectives Administrators and the like.

The client and server are secure reliable and easy to maintain. Intelligent Sockets FP Sockets are used. When multiple radio network devices exist to access the network the technology is able to detect and choose the fastest and most reliable device s and perform a multitude of decision based algorithms to format the data packets for optimal performance. Public Safety Inquiry PSI Powwow Landmark Enfuego and FATPOT Public Safety Suite are embodiments and are able to function over Public Private Static Roaming NAT and Rolling IP addresses. For example they can be used over such wireless networks as AT T CDPD AT T GPRS IPMobileNet OpenSky Sprint PCS T Mobile GPRS NEXTEL 802.11b etc. The technology used allows intelligent network selection transaction priority transaction queuing concurrent network routing and network transaction routing FP Sockets .

Regarding security the technology is compliant with federal requirements and uses 128 bit RSA and AES encryption for all communication. Additional encryption and security features can be added to increase security when needed without manual redeployment of the clients and servers saving time money and resources. Interagency data sharing is performed with the use of FATPOT Peer Intelligence and FATPOT CADi Cerebro CADi . Embodiments allow agencies to share dispatch calls units and RMS data if they enable the capabilities. The client portion of this technology can mold the graphical user interface to show only the authorized capabilities available to a user or limit the capabilities available for the user. In other words it can dynamically limit the amount of information a user is able to view or access based on access control lists and business rules applied for users.

Dynamic data support is provided. If the capability is enabled users are able to control and prioritize the amount of data they receive for dispatch information. ie changing of dispatch centers cities zones priorities etc. A PSI server native firewall is used to restrict access to the server and it graphically displays all connections transactions and histories of activities.

Reference is now made to which provide a representative application. illustrates a representative login process. illustrates a representative user interface indicating a successful login and allowing access depending on the user s level of authorization. Users have the ability to select and access different screens depending upon pre established authorization levels.

At least some embodiments of the present invention embrace use of a network messaging mapping inquiries field reporting dispatch and or terminal emulation. For example a network includes i enhanced wireless protocol for increase performance ii intelligent caching for reducing network traffic and time iii multiple concurrent network support e.g. 802.11 CDMA CDPD GPRS etc all running individually or concurrently iv intelligent network protocol segregation e.g. ability to activate disable pause resume features depending upon available network interfaces v secure and reliable encryption methodologies e.g. RSA AES 128 bit cipher strength and higher if necessary and or vi secure session persistence e.g In at least some embodiments there is no need to use VPN or other expensive network middleware .

Relating to messaging there exists i grouping contact lists with icons depicting status ii mail integration with SMTP and POP3 complaint email servers ie GroupWise Exchange etc iii standard email look and feel e.g. Inbox Sent Items Deleted Items etc. iv easy access to first responders and other users for interoperability communications v broadcast alerts hot sheets and any other critical information to local county and state agencies within your region or across the country vi a chat room capability to easily be informed of all users and their status while communicating vii a change status to inform users when away busy etc. and or viii the ability to read incoming messages to the user.

Mapping capabilities include the dynamic mapping of units responding to a call within local or remote agency boundaries or not assigned to the call but at the scene. Relating to mapping there exists i auto tracking of all units responding to same call ii the ability to view all calls units within specified region or location iii customizable images to depict the variety of units calls and objects iv units to depict the actual heading while moving v electronic compass waypoints and markers to assist user to quickly analyze and locate first responders calls vi the ability to receive critical information pertaining to the call by location ie floor plans hydrant data photos etc. . . . vii a self guiding map e.g. The driver does not have to determine location and bearing from the displayed electronic map and unit position The map rotates to show exactly what is in front of the unit as it is moving viii zooming capabilities allow the user to view within 1 mile to 100 mile radius of the unit and or ix intelligent memory management that examines utilization of the information displayed and caches for performance while reducing the amount of memory required to use a real time interactive mapping system. Embodiments embrace the functionality of the split screens and the ability to not only plot the calls on a map but also the ability to highlight a call by clicking on the icon on the map or bringing any call icon to the center of the map by clicking on the dispatch line on the split screen portion that shows calls in text format.

Regarding inquires there exists the ability to i perform lookups to numerous external systems without redundant field entry ii provide a self limiting inquiry selection e.g The system is able to determine which databases can be queried depending upon the information entered for submission. iii easily read inquiry results with tables colors and images iv read inquiry results to user if desired in order to reduce the time for an officer to interact with the system when the user is performing multiple tasks concurrently and or v segregate multiple inquiries into an easy to understand manner using multiple forms of tabs groups and lists. e.g the design allows an end user to easily track manage and locate information on the desired search criteria. 

Regarding field reporting there exists the ability to provide i auto field population of report forms and systems from inquiry results which reduce the amount of redundant data entry ii approval process for data submissions e.g Authorized individuals can reject submissions for correction or accept for official document. iii self updating forms and data entry constraint e.g Does not require manual installation and upgrades for modifications. iv inquiries on submitted data before final approval v functionality that does not allow data to be submitted for approval until all fields meet the required constraints vi the ability to customizably meet the necessary incident base reporting guidelines restrictions and or vii chain of command approval process before final submission as well as the dynamic submission of reports to their respective and required destinations. Some embodiments provide enhanced report capabilities that bring together the disparate data sources

Regarding dispatch there exists functionality to i alter appearance for clear distinction of modified calls ii perform intelligent sorting e.g. The ability to sort numerical columns Alphanumeric columns date time etc. iii provide a built in messaging window that provides an auto chat room created on the fly for every call Automatic Communications Environment that allows each responder assigned to call to be able to send receive messages that easily views all responders on same call that provides quick access to dispatcher first responder s and or allows additional privileged individuals to view information and or iv provide a powerful grouping capability to segregate group information by an number of combinations City Status City Zone etc. . . . to provide user activity tracking within a daily log e.g All status inquiries and activities can be tracked within a daily log and accessed by the user and other privileged users and or to provide a timeline of events that are tracked for all activity self initiated or not occurring for the user. Daily logs can be sent dynamically and stored in other agency systems.

Regarding terminal emulation Terminal Emulation there exists the ability to i support most common protocols e.g. 5250 3270 VT200 ANSI etc. ii provide session persistence over unreliable network connections e.g. Able to resume session to remote system without needing to lose work or log in again and or iii provide encrypted transmission to remote systems unlike standard telnet applications.

A computer aided dispatch interface Cerebro CADi is an interface that is capable of integrating numerous disparate CAD systems together and providing one interface to interact and access the information. There exists security within the interface with access limited to authorized users. The ability to link numerous systems together as one unit is a very powerful tool for a number of industries including public safety. This technology provides new types of applications and analysis.

A computer aided dispatch interface CADi may be used to inform mobile clients FATPOT PSI Powwow with unit call and other active information. CADi is also used to perform silent dispatching and cross agency coordination between multiple CAD systems. Some departments perform statewide real time statistical and crime analysis using our flexible product. In at least one embodiment this is made possible because of the integration of disparate data Cerebro CADi and the capability of analyzing integrated data for analysis and reporting through means of crystal reports or like applications and systems. This provides the capability of integrating disparate data in real time and then scripting the uses and behavior to interface to applications and systems of choice. Mobile data client systems include 128 bit RSA AES based encryption covering all forms of communication to ensure that data and safety is never compromised.

In at least some embodiments a touch screen friendly interface is provided that includes the following representative functionalities 

Messaging Client applications such as but not limited to FATPOT Landmark and Enfuego come with a fully featured messaging system that allows a user to have instant communication with other users of an agency as well as with professionals in other agencies. The applications access regular internet email although support for scripts and executable attachments are removed to ensure that network security is not compromised. Chat rooms for individual or group chat allow for instant communication with other professionals that may have information relevant to the present call.

HotSheets and ATLs which are available digitally and as running tickers on computer devices allow a specific place and instant awareness for time sensitive situations without losing the critical nature of high priority situations inside normal lower priority messages. The application even takes advantage of text to speech capabilities of some computers to allow participation in a urgent chat or hear the words of a new ATL without requiring the officer user having to pull over his unit or take his her eyes off the road as he she is driving.

In some embodiments Buddy Lists are supported to keep a user in quick contact with common associates. The server can also auto populate groups so the user can instantly see who the current on duty dispatchers or HazMat globally specialists and so forth are without even knowing them.

Logging A variety of Fire and EMS users log some or all of their activities in the vehicles. To simplify this process there exists a logging feature that can also push the completed results to a central server to satisfy reporting requirements from the unit.

Dispatch Interface is made with disparate CAD systems to give fully detailed information to responding units without having to tie up valuable radio time. In cases where the CAD vendor allows integration the system can even enable silent dispatching which can become a critical asset for any time sensitive operation. Silent dispatching is a process in which an officer clicks a button ie. en route arrived and so forth which pushes the information regarding his her position as it relates to responding to a call directly back into a CAD system. This can occur without having to use a radio.

The Dispatch screen has undergone considerable improvements to allow a single interface to support the first responder as well as the senior dispatch chiefs for an entire state. The columns of information can be sorted and customized in any order to support the needs of the user. Additionally voice alerts are provided for updated information and the records are tagged with an exclamation to quickly draw your attention to new information.

A chat room is instantly associated with each individual call Automatic Communications Environment . Accordingly all responders to a situation whether seen by Fire Police and EMS or Patrol Sergeants Dispatchers or Hospital Workers can be brought together in this digital environment to ensure the fastest response is provided with all parties aware of every step of the solution.

In some embodiments real time dispatch information from dispatch centers all over a given area e.g. a state a country etc. is efficiently managed and the integrated call chat room allows coordination to occur without the delays of radio and telephone which could mean the difference between life and death. In a more simple example two jurisdictions responding to a normal call are automatically and instantly enabled to communicate making coordination of response and incident management much easier than it has heretofore been in the Public Safety industry.

Embodiments of the present invention also include an ability to group the information available by simply dragging columns into the order that supports the needs of the user. This provides unlimited flexibility in managing call centers with high volumes or even to take multiple call centers and merge them in order to provide more efficient support to the tax payer s safety dollar.

In one embodiment a particular county is managed by grouping first by city and then by status to see exactly where the real activity is taking place.

FATPOT HazMat It is important to a Fire Professional to have up to date and detailed information of a location that has hazardous materials on hand. FATPOT Enfuego provides an interface that is tailored to connect to existing HazMat systems or even a simple database a user can begin building on his her own. By directly linking the call address to information in your system a user has the ability to add view or change information regarding HazMat to maximize safety in a fire or other emergency situation regarding HazMat.

Terminal Service Embodiments of the present invention further include allowing clients to access legacy systems from the field home or desk and not fear power or network outages. A terminal manager allows a user to shut down a system out in the patrol unit and walk into the office and continue a session where the user left off on his her desk computer as though the user had been working there the entire time. No more lost work no more frustration of having to repeatedly log in and navigate to the last location where the user lost the connection. Further communications are encrypted over a 128 bit encrypted which is FBI or NCIC approved technology.

Inquiries Clients including mobile clients efficiently manage queries across multiple systems. Everything down to the input forms itself and is customizable by individual agencies using the scripting language FPScript of the present invention. As the individual fields are input the application performs all the data integrity checks and dynamically builds a list of all the available information sources. Embodiments have the ability to query directly into an RMS system from the field Data Broker . If the user is a member of the network the user can query into other agency s RMS systems that have been authorized for sharing with the public safety community see Peer Intelligence Data Sharing Network .

A person search for John Doe is easy to follow and work with using color coded fields drop down lists that are big enough to work with even on a touch screen laptop.

Investigations A number of professionals including Fire professionals in particular are faced with the task of always explaining why something occurred. To support this Enfuego has added an area specifically tailored to document diagram and annotate information regarding a fire emergency or other mishap. Provided that an agency already has stored information on premise information and floor plans mobile clients of the present invention including Enfuego can integrate into the existing system to view all available information which dramatically reduces the amount of research concerning a particular incident as well as other documentation required in the field that would be associated with a particular incident.

Data Sharing Since criminals do not stay in one place it is helpful that the network allows a user to access existing records systems to the public safety community without having to change either the user s system or the entire public safety community system. Accordingly the system provides a DOJ compliant system. By then adding some intelligence to the way data is searched for and presented quick research can be performed into the criminal background of a subject with available information returning in seconds instead of what used to take detectives much longer even weeks to discover. Embodiments allow the ability to receive far more information pertaining to a subject immediately through the searching capabilities of Peer Intelligence .

Embodiments embrace an enhanced way to link together the data that already exists in current records without having to change the way records are kept. Agency control is provided as to who an agency authorizes data sharing with and what information they can access.

Mapping Capabilities are provided that allow visual management of vehicles fleets etc. as well as providing dynamic visual information relating to location. With a GPS receiver and a map scanned into our systems a user can quickly have the user s unit other units calls and other related data points plotted right in front of the user leaving no question where they are where they are trying to go and available resources and pertinent information relating the user s needs. Much time is saved adjusting new personnel to the area such as not having to memorize maps locations and other learning curve logistics relating to an officer s beat. Time saved can be better utilized accessing resources to help with particular incidents relating to an officer s job.

When integrated with a FATPOT MAPView client a mobile data client turns into a powerful display for responding to incident and crisis areas. The basic mobile mapping client will show the call and location but MAPView can take all the criminal analysis already done as well as other sources of information on locations and push them directly to the units. Thus as an example upon receiving a call for a missing child a user can instantly see all the nearby sex offenders light up if that database is part of the network. Alternatively assuming a fire hydrant database is integrated the user can respond to a fire and gain information on all active and inactive hydrants in the area from someone using MAPView so no time is wasted figuring out where the closest hydrant is located. In the fire hydrant example the data accessible through MAPView can also be very detailed such as to inform users of whether a particular hydrant is active or inactive. This instant information availability can be life saving given certain circumstances. Instant and reliable information on a location surrounding resources and other available data not only can shave seconds of response time which can often mean one more life saved but can add needed information to assist in critical at the scene decision making.

Patient Care Records Embodiments of the present invention meet the customer s unique needs. For example the patient care records portion of Enfuego is a global example of flexibility by understanding that between HL7 NEMSIS NHTSA etc. Every agency has different reporting needs. Patient care records are completely customizable to meet local needs as well as the ability to integrate into the user s current system. Enfuego integrates into patient monitoring devices to keep the hospital updated in real time on the patient they are about to receive. Also these patient care records are available and accessible to authorized individuals a seamless transfer of new updated and or modified records can be performed. The process of access and transferring of such records from first response ambulance care to the hospital offer significant efficiencies in terms of miscommunication duplication of data entry and other key items relating to the process of an emergency incident.

Administrators can custom design forms to push out to the clients allowing maximum flexibility on information management and reporting. These forms are integrated within existing systems for efficiencies of job related process.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention products are network agnostic and can even take advantage of multiple present connections. Thus whether a user employs radio cellular wireless or a regular LAN the user will be getting the best performance without requiring any intervention or training for the user FPSockets .

Mobile applications including Landmark and Enfuego provide solutions for linking professionals in the field to the data they need to make decisions and save lives.

Some embodiments are integrated with SMTP and POP3 mail systems so that they can create a service on the backend that can be customized for users to access their personal corporate and agency mail systems so additional client software does not need to be installed in the mobile client wherever it may reside because the product is already SMTP and POP3 compliant. Further broker capabilities are available that limit which types of mail items can be sent to the user what type of attachments can be sent and be filtered so that it would not overload a wireless connection. Thus smaller data packets or abbreviated information is transmitted on lower bandwidth mediums and more information is sent over an 802.11 medium.

In one embodiment there is a hot key Ctrl Space to quickly navigate to the last incoming message. The hot key is also relevant to instant messaging. For example if someone was trying to invite a user to a chat room or other communications environment the user would have to navigate with the mouse or series of keys to get to the messaging screen get to the buddy screen double click on the invitation. Alternatively with the hot key the recent list is shown and then instantly the user is allowed to either join automatically or click into the invitation at the user s discretion. If it were a mail item the user can use the hot key to open the mail message and take the user right there and read the message. If it s a modified CAD call using the hot key takes the user right to the CAD screen selects the CAD call shows what s been modified displays a narrative and provides contact information.

In some embodiments the inquiry results are dynamically grouped. When performing a look up the application moves into the query view. And based upon every grouping of look ups if a driver s license warrants and vehicle or insurance information of a person is looked up the user selects all of these items and they are all grouped underneath the person s name. The user can see the current status of all the inquiry results ie. pending completed read or not . When the user is done with the inquiry and that particular tab is no longer needed the user closes that item and it moves over to the user s history and is associated with the daily log. Thus there is significantly less navigation less clutter and better grouping of the information related to the specific query that was performed. In some embodiments a daily log is provided so users can keep track of everything they have done. It tracks being dispatched to a call where their vehicles have been driving etc. In the daily log notes are created and comments made to every incident or case that the user has been involved with as well as all the lookups that were performed. Accordingly users are able to manage all daily events and this information is saved such that all information relating to a particular officer on any specific day can be retrieved from within the agency s system. This provides a powerful auditing and management tool.

With the dynamic integration of disparate systems the mobile client communicates directly with the client service that s running on that computer and requests to see if there are any updates. If there are updates the technology will gather available updates and perform the updates based on rules put in place for proper bandwidth and network allocation and data transmission coordination DataSync . So if its wireless it will not do any updates until sufficient bandwidth exists it will go ahead and use the network device and the client will perform the update and move everything across pertaining to transmitting photos email to maps or other databases that contain data for hydrants floor plans or other relevant information. These updates can be performed through streaming clumping or in a trickle feeding method depending on the rules established on the network.

As discussed above embodiments embrace dynamic mapping technology. Such mapping technology is able to communicate to numerous hardware devices. It s a service that s installed on the machine that communicates to the different types of devices that would be plugged in either through serial USB or radio equipment. It gathers the coordinates and coverts them to the mobile products so a user can see where he or she is located on the corresponding map. Even when a mobile client loses its network connection the view within the mobile client is unaffected. This is the case because this process does not flow through the network. The software is communicating directly with the device and the associated locations are plotted directly on the map within the mobile client without the need of a network interface.

In some embodiments an alias capability is utilized which allows a user to create an alias command such that it can group a series of commands together. For instance if a user wanted to perform a particular lookup that he or she is accustomed to doing which always includes drivers licenses and warrants the user would just give that particular grouping of look ups a name of MI for multiple inquiry to create an alias called MI and it will look up these two systems. So the system will automatically know to go ahead and do those lookups based upon the alias name created and create a tab underneath the people vehicle property section and put it into the query. This facilitates dispatchers with quick access to predefined queries using user friendly names without having to manually navigate through the system clicking on each of those lookups. They can create these customized lookups themselves.

Embodiments of the present invention further embrace automatically creating communications environments and or automatically coordinating users placed within a communication environment . For example users assigned to calls are dynamically identified and can either be invited to enter a communication environment such as an electronic chat concerning that call or can be immediately placed into said communications environment. Backend server technology automatically creates a communications environment for every dispatch call. So if a user has multiple agencies responding to a particular call all of the first responders regardless of whether they are a fire truck an EMT a police car a sheriff etc. they all dynamically become members of that particular call or event. And all of the dispatchers even on separate CAD systems will be able to communicate together as well as with all first responders. So the user just types what he she wants on the dispatch screen in the shared common communication environment and when the user types it all the other first responders receive it. This facilitates communication with all the first responders. This technology is made useful in the public safety industry and other industries.

In some embodiments a sergeant chief or anybody else in administration can go ahead and join a communications environment call or chat room even without being assigned to the call. They have pre established network associated authorized rights to join a particular dispatch call just to get a status of what is taking place.

At least some embodiments of the present invention provide further capabilities. Examples include an automated daily log which ties across all systems to allow the automated recording of daily activities. Calls time stamps free form narratives or anything relating to training education can be automatically populated into the daily log. Field Reporting dynamically sends a report to a desired location. An inventory provides a full enterprise level inv management property management chain of custody up to the management level. It tracks and manages funding of accounts delegation of responsibility to departments for managing accounts. This trickles to a first responder giving a shot that item is deducted from a department all the way to a billing company. Thus as discussed herein the embodiments of the present invention embrace dynamically integrating disparate data systems. In particular the present invention relates to systems and methods for seamlessly integrating disparate data systems to securely customizably and dynamically collaborate access and or share information over unlimited protocols over multiple frequencies. Manage locations integrate floor plans for areas and a development of premise history from disparate records management systems. Thus a response to an incident gives a full array of information to give knowledge to a response. Personnel management provides a roster and intelligent scheduling shifts track training licensing and certification for all associated personnel performance recording fitness reports and however they manage their personnel.

Thus as discussed herein embodiments of the present invention relate to dynamically integrating disparate data systems. In particular embodiments of the present invention relate to systems and methods for seamlessly integrating disparate data systems to securely customizably and dynamically collaborate and share real time information and for providing intelligent data sharing that supports multiple standards concurrently and provides automatic conversioning of data information. In at least some embodiments based on the data translation process the entire system becomes unified and acts as if it were a single highly effective system with equal capabilities and functionality.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

Systems and methods according to embodiments of the present invention provide clustering and interoperability between disparate computer aided dispatch CAD systems. CAD systems are commonly used to automate the collection and tracking of information on emergency situations related public safety and for the assignment of public safety personnel for the purpose of mitigating and resolving the emergency situations. In many instances each municipality has its own CAD system. Additionally each agency e.g. police dispatch fire dispatch ambulance dispatch within a municipality may have its own CAD system. It can be advantageous to have such CAD systems communicate with each other for various reasons. For example within a municipality having multiple CAD systems it can be advantageous to have CAD systems communicate with each other so that each associated entity agency is aware of the resources available to respond to an emergency and or aware of the resources allocated by the other entities agencies. Similarly many municipalities have agreements with one or more adjacent municipalities to share resources and or response capabilities responsibilities in the event of an emergency situation. Communication between CAD systems can be advantageous for other reasons not specifically enumerated herein.

While communication between CAD systems is advantageous it can be difficult to adequately implement. For example illustrates the communication necessities of communicatively interlinking four CAD systems CAD A CAD B CAD C and CAD D. If all four CAD systems are to be communicatively interconnected in the manner shown communications must be reliably exchanged between any two of the CAD systems . As each CAD system may use different communications protocols languages codes messages field values etc. interconnecting two CAD systems requires that specific controlled transformations of information occur as the information is exchanged. Traditionally such CAD to CAD interoperability solutions have been built using individually tailored adapter and data transformation orchestrations that were rigid and customized. This approach requires a point to point design that is ill adapted to large scale integration.

For example consider the four CAD arrangement of . To achieve interoperability between the four CAD systems requires customizing and tailoring six bi directional communication adaptations transformations or twelve uni directional communication adaptations transformations. If interoperability is desired with a fifth CAD system an additional four bi directional or eight uni directional communication adaptations transformations are required. Finally if one CAD system is changed upgraded etc. such as due to routine maintenance a large number of communication adaptations transformations require support customization and updating. Therefore the costs of implementing and maintaining such interoperability have severely limited existing attempts to achieve interoperability. For example in most existing systems when a communication is sent from one CAD system to another each interaction is considered complete as soon as it is translated and sent. The interactions are thus stateless in that once sent they convey no further information between systems. No further tracking and interoperability has been achieved by existing systems.

Systems and methods according to embodiments of the present invention achieve the desired interoperability depicted in with additional benefits as will be described below. In embodiments of the invention multiple disparate CAD systems are provided with bi directional interoperability such that requests operations and information can be translated and can flow in either or both directions between CAD systems . This allows the formation of unified regional systems across the multiple disparate CAD systems . In some embodiments this is achieved by way of advanced processes and systems linking the CAD systems . The processes and systems include computer programs data structures algorithms and may be implemented and deployed on computer readable media. Embodiments of the invention have been termed CADfusion .

In this way the CADfusion system can manage a stateful ongoing interaction between CAD systems . As illustrated in each CAD system has a certain perspective of the relevant portion of the world and the perspectives of multiple CAD systems overlap in certain areas and not in others. The CADfusion system understands each system s perspective and the overlaps and intelligently manages the ongoing exchange of information requests and operations to share the data relative to a particular CAD system . Therefore data not relative to a particular CAD system need not be shared with that CAD system .

A CAD call that is shared across multiple CAD systems is kept active in the CADfusion system until all CAD systems interested in the call have closed the call. The closing of the call indicates that each CAD system is no longer interested in the call and no longer needs to receive information about the call. The CADfusion system also synchronizes call and unit status updates between interested CAD systems in like fashion. In this way all parties have the latest information. Thus the CADfusion system provides a state machine of all critical CAD information from connected CAD systems .

In some embodiments information objects in one CAD system are replicated or related to objects in a different CAD system . The objects in the various CAD systems need not be similarly represented but as manipulations in one CAD system may be passed to the other CAD system the objects of the different systems are associated or otherwise bound together. A global call identifier GCI or other data key is used within the CADfusion system to identify data from the connected CAD systems . Calls that are replicated between CAD systems by the CADfusion system have a common GCI.

In certain scenarios multiple data items e.g. calls etc. in a single CAD system may reference a single GCI. One example of how this may occur is when a call from Agency A having a CAD system is forwarded through the CADfusion system to Agency B. Agency B may evaluate the nature of the call and may create individual call records for police emergency medical services EMS and or fire each with unique local call identifiers. Since all three calls map back to a single call originating with Agency A they could all be associated with the same GCI within the CADfusion system .

One type of data item that can be shared between CAD systems is a resource identifier representing a resource object such as a specific apparatus e.g. a fire truck having a ladder . Resource objects are often made available through automatic aid or other mutual aid agreements such as with neighboring agencies. Referencing resources that exist in a separate CAD system utilizes a bound placeholder or virtual resource in the local CAD system corresponding to an external resource somewhere else. The CADfusion system supports both static and dynamic binding of shared resources between CAD systems .

With static binding CAD systems connect with the CADfusion system and the resources are initially identified e.g. posted to the CADfusion system . As one example Agency A defines a virtual unit e.g. labeled A Ladder01 which is to be mapped to a physical unit of Agency B e.g. labeled by Agency B as B EngL03 . Once the CAD systems of both agencies are connected to the CADfusion system the CADfusion system binds the two objects together. Any status updates from Agency B for B EngL03 are automatically transformed and sent to Agency A as A Ladder01. The two objects Agency A s virtual unit and Agency B s representation of its actual unit are bound together i.e. statically as long as the CAD systems are connected to the CADfusion system .

With dynamic binding binding of resource objects occurs at the time a CAD system requests e.g. dispatches a virtual unit. As an example Agency A defines a virtual unit representing an external resource e.g. labeled A EMS01 that is of a certain class or type e.g. ambulance . In this example Agency B has agreed to provide mutual aid in the form of ambulance service to Agency A but since Agency B has multiple ambulances and does not know which one will be available at the time it is needed by Agency A Agency B does not wish to assign a specific unit until the time of need. Accordingly when Agency A actually dispatches its virtual unit A EMS01 Agency B is notified and prompted to assign a specific resource e.g. labeled unit B AMB03 to the request. Upon making the assignment the CADfusion system binds A EMS01 to B AMB03 until Agency A releases the unit whereupon the binding i.e. dynamic binding terminates.

As the CADfusion system tracks the states of various objects and information the CADfusion system also tracks which CAD system owns or controls an object or data element. The CADfusion system prevents transactions from non controlling CAD systems from modifying the state or value of certain critical objects such as by maintaining a rights mask. In certain embodiments control of an object can be transferred to another CAD system through certain operations. For example in the dynamic binding example discussed above the assigning and binding of a dynamic resource to a virtual unit of another CAD system temporarily transfers control of that unit to the receiving CAD system . In most instances the loaning CAD system cannot un assign the loaned unit until the borrowing agency CAD system releases it.

The above examples of CAD call association and unit resource binding are only two of the many potential types of object associations and bindings that may occur with the CADfusion system . Establishing managing and removing object associations and bindings are functions provided by the CADfusion system . Once established these connections assist in defining message publish and subscribe relationship which drive CAD to CAD communications.

Communications between CAD systems are facilitated by an intelligent data transformation applied to each message or information exchange between the CAD systems . Disparate CAD systems provide different methods for defining and storing information. Independent agencies even within a single operating municipality or other organization may also elect to encode their operations and field values differently. A message that needs to be forwarded from one CAD system to another or to multiple other CAD systems may contain many data elements that need to be transformed into the syntax of the target systems and that also need to be transformed into the proper semantics of the target systems.

While some data elements may only require a direct translation in either direct such as A to B in one direction and therefore B to A in the other direction many data elements are much more complicated. An intelligent transformation process provided by the CADfusion system deals with transformation of the complicated data elements. One such data element type is nature codes. Each agency and associated CAD system defines their table of nature codes to support their standard operating procedures. Generally these codes are different than those used by neighboring entities and agencies. illustrates how the CADfusion system can intelligently transform data items between CAD systems to provide interoperability between the CAD systems .

In the example illustrated in a 9 1 1 dispatcher of Agency A sets the nature code of a call to CAE representing Agency A s designation of Cardiac Arrest Electrical in Agency A s CAD system as illustrated at . The call is then forwarded to the CADfusion system for further forwarding to Agency B such as to have an ambulance of Agency B respond to the call. As the call is forwarded the CADfusion system assigns a GCI to the call in this case 789123. Agency B utilizes a different set of nature codes and does not have a nature code of CAE. Therefore for Agency B to understand and properly respond to the call a transformation of Agency A s CAE nature code is a necessary part of forwarding the message to Agency B. When the CADfusion system receives the call it references data element mapping for Agency A s CAD system as well as data element mapping for Agency B s CAD system and determines that the closest nature code in Agency B s CAD system is code HA representing Agency B s designation of Heart Attack . Therefore when the CADfusion system forwards the call to the CAD system of Agency B Agency A s nature code of CAE is transformed to HA along with any other transformations necessary to permit Agency B s CAD system to properly accept and deal with the call as illustrated at .

As discussed previously the CADfusion system provides a stateful system in that it provides continued tracking and updating of information between systems. Therefore when the call is transformed and passed to the CAD system of Agency B it is not necessarily terminated in the CAD system of Agency A. Instead updates of the call may be reflected back to Agency A s CAD system . Such reflections if not intelligently handled and transformed could create a thrashing situation where two CAD systems can interminably debate the value of a particular data element. The CADfusion system intelligently handles reflections to avoid such situations.

For example suppose as illustrated at in that Agency B s dispatched paramedic responding to the call forwarded from Agency A arrives at the scene and discovers a situation different from the situation defined by the nature code HA. Therefore the paramedic changes the nature code to HF representing Agency B s designation of Heart Failure . This information is reflected back to the CADfusion system as the CADfusion system maintains ongoing tracking and updating between systems. The updated information is not necessarily passed to Agency A s CAD system . Instead the CADfusion system utilizes the data element mapping for Agency B s CAD system and the data element mapping for Agency A s CAD system to determine whether any information update should be forwarded to Agency A s CAD system .

The CADfusion system includes indirect mapping of each data element from CAD systems to common values across all interconnected CAD systems . The common values are derived from and are configured as the greatest common denominators of all values for that element as may be appreciated from the illustrative data element mapping and the data element mapping of . As illustrated in the CAD system of Agency A may have four cardiac arrest related nature codes namely CAG representing Cardiac Arrest General CAE representing Cardiac Arrest Electrical CAF representing Cardiac Arrest Fatigue and CAT representing Cardiac Arrest Trauma . Meanwhile Agency B s CAD system may have two similar but different related nature codes namely HA representing Heart Attack and HF representing Heart Failure . When the various CAD systems are initially connected to the CADfusion system or when some change or update of the CAD systems occurs the various data elements e.g. the nature codes in this case are originally mapped to the common values . In the embodiment illustrated in and in the case of the various cardiac arrest heart attack related nature codes the common value representing the greatest common denominator between the various nature codes is chosen to be CA representing Cardiac Arrest .

Once the common value for the data elements is chosen or selected the data element mapping and the data element mapping may be generated with each CAD system s data elements mapped to the selected common values . These mappings and and the mapped common values determine how updates are reflected and passed on to other CAD systems or not. In the case where the paramedic changes the Agency B designation from HA to HF as illustrated at the information is reflected back to the CADfusion system which determines that the change still corresponds to the same common value in this case CA and therefore no update is needed at the CAD system of Agency A. Therefore no update is provided to Agency A s CAD system .

If instead the paramedic arrives at the scene to discover that the true issue is a stroke and not a heart problem the paramedic might change the nature code to ST representing Agency B s designation of Stroke as illustrated at . As before this information is reflected back to the CADfusion system and a determination is made whether an update should be provided to the CAD system of Agency A. First the new nature code of ST is transformed to a common value using the data element mapping of Agency B. In this case the common value is determined to be ST representing the greatest common denominator for stroke related nature codes. Because the common value is different than the original common value of CA the CADfusion system determines that an update to the CAD system of Agency A is needed and the common value of ST is transformed using the data element mapping of Agency A and forwarded to the CAD system of Agency A as illustrated at . In this case the nature code forwarded to the CAD system of Agency A is illustrated as being SGN representing Agency A s designation of Stroke General . As is illustrated in the GCI remains the same throughout assisting in the provision of tracking and updates.

A transformation similar to that discussed above occurs for each data element that requires transformation in each message that is exchanged between CAD systems and the CADfusion system . Although illustrates specific details of one embodiment s common values and agencies nature codes it will be appreciated that those details are merely illustrative. Other embodiments are envisioned with more specific and or general common values e.g. each common value being mapped to more or fewer data elements and or with common values represented using other designators including numbers or any other code or representation.

As will be appreciated the CADfusion system acts as a central hub receiving communications and other information from various CAD systems and passing information and communications to the CAD systems . The information passed to the CAD systems is modified so as to be understood and used by the receiving CAD systems . This communications arrangement is illustrated in . This communications arrangement is provided by the FATPOT messaging infrastructure Peer Intelligence Common Exchange. The Common Exchange handles transport level interfaces to each CAD system as well as basic data conversion and normalization. It also provides for reliable delivery of CADfusion messages between the interconnected CAD systems . This hub architecture eliminates the need for any point to point intelligence on the part of the individual CAD systems . Thus as one CAD system is added to the system upgraded or otherwise changed only interactions between that system and the hub of the CADfusion system needs to be updated created or modified.

The CADfusion system therefore leverages this technology to largely eliminate the need for each individual CAD system to be aware of and maintain information about the other interconnected CAD systems . To facilitate interfacing with the CADfusion system the CAD systems support the basic functions of the CADfusion system . These functions include but are not limited to each function includes whether it is directed from the CAD system to the CADfusion system or vice versa 1 post a CAD call to CADfusion 2 post a unit to CADfusion 3 correlate subscribe to a CAD call to CADfusion 4 close unsubscribe to a CAD call to CADfusion 5 post a message to CADfusion 6 send a CAD call from CADfusion 7 send unit status from CADfusion and 8 send message from CADfusion . Beyond an initial setup within each CAD system to define external resources and mapping of data items as discussed above the CADfusion system and methods intelligently handle all other information exchange between the interconnected CAD systems .

Because the entire state of the interconnected CAD systems is maintained by the CADfusion system state transition logic or business rules can be configured for the different agency policies. In this way the agencies standard operating environments are modeled. In some instances processing certain business rules requires information from previous states and decisions. The CADfusion system retains this perspective and makes it available as input to future business rule execution.

The CADfusion system has a rich set of CAD to CAD transactions built in that can be configured through system level parameters to deliver a customized operating environment based on customer requirements. However because the CADfusion system is built on the Peer Intelligence Common Exchange platform it includes a multi threaded virtual machine execution environment. Each transaction path this includes multiple interface points for raising special handler events where additional customized business rules can be inserted. These can be written in the FATPOT scripting language FPScript or through its plug in component architecture it can support other methods for handling the event such as COM objects DLLs Python Web Services just to name a few.

The CADfusion system similar systems and the accompanying methods seek to provide maximum interoperability and integration between disparate interconnected CAD systems . However the maximum extent of interoperability between any two CAD systems is largely defined by the common thread of the collective capabilities of the CAD systems at issue. Thus the scope of operations and the range of information that can be shared through the CADfusion system is limited by the robustness of interfaces for the CAD systems . The following list of operations represents a desirable baseline of common capabilities to facilitate interoperability between CAD systems . CAD systems lacking some of these capabilities will not experience all the benefits of the CADfusion system and methods although additional operations and capabilities are also supported by the CADfusion system .

1 Call Creation CAD call creation and forwarding to one or more agencies is a desirable feature regardless of the CAD system being used. CAD call creation and forwarding is in real time.

2 Call Updates The ability to provide CAD call updates supplements to one or more agencies regardless of the CAD system being used is also desirable. Supplements and updates are also in real time.

3 Assistance Requests Enabling CAD assistance requests e.g. mutual aid automatic aid etc. for defined external resources is a desirable feature. Examples of these include a physical one to one mapping and a dynamic logical mapping resolved bound at the time of the request as discussed above. This feature includes the ability to view and receive resource status updates on auto and mutual aid responses for all mapped resources and related agency systems.

4 Messaging Allowing messaging between dispatch centers public safety answering points PSAPs and field units or individuals is desirable regardless of which CAD system and or mobile system each dispatch center and or unit is using. As one example standard text messaging formats are available between all users. Priority messaging is supported in some embodiments.

5 Alerting Providing real time alerting to workstations and field units or individuals is also desirable. In some embodiments this includes a simulcast and alert to both police and fire agencies units about a hazardous condition that may exist.

6 Unit Status and Automatic Vehicle Location AVL Information Sharing unit status and AVL data between interconnected CAD systems is beneficial. Example data elements have been or will be discussed.

7 Monitoring Monitoring all call incident activity and unit status changes to be able to provide a common operating picture from all external agencies is also beneficial.

As discussed above the CADfusion system is not limited to these operations. As demand for more sophisticated levels of interoperability increases and as the capability of the interconnected CAD systems and the interfaces of the CAD systems evolve to meet that demand the number of operations and amount of information exchange will increase. The CADfusion system supports and will handle this expansion of capabilities.

The CADfusion system is designed to compensate for deficiencies in CAD system interfaces as not all CAD systems have equal capabilities or have capabilities that match the capabilities of the CADfusion system . FATPOT has created an adaptive interface environment AIE to address this need as is illustrated in . Leveraging the Peer Intelligence Common Exchange platform to provide a flexible execution environment adapters and translators are developed to interface with each individual CAD system interface and its inherent capabilities. One of the purposes of the AIE is to present a core of the CADfusion system a consistent functional CAD to CAD interface on which it can rely.

Where CAD system interface limitations exist the AIE provides a mechanism for overcoming those limitations. The Common Exchange also provides support for a variety of transport level interfaces to the target CAD system . As illustrated in the architecture also includes object based interface mechanisms such as active template library based application programming interfaces ATL APIs socket based APIs and web service APIs that can be used to create dynamically loadable interfaces to support emerging industry standards such as National Information Exchange Model NIEM or CAD vendor specific interfaces that have been developed specifically for the CADfusion system and methods.

One capability of the CADfusion system is the ability to respond to failures outages or disconnects that affect the ability of the system to communicate with one of its components. A failure outage or disconnect may be caused by a power or network failure or it may result from a system or software failure of one of the CAD systems or even a failure of the CADfusion system itself. Upon such an event the individual components are capable of recognizing a failure and switching over to either a limited operation mode or to a manual mode.

In a limited operation mode the CADfusion system continues to provide bi directional interoperability between the remaining interconnected components and interactions between such interconnected components is unaffected by the unavailability of the other component. The CADfusion system detects the unavailability of the unavailable component and notifies other systems of the unavailability. Notification of a component s unavailability during active transactions on a shared incident serves as an alert to no longer rely on the CADfusion system for communication and coordination with the unavailable system. Communication with the unavailable system is then handled manually.

If a single component e.g. CAD system becomes isolated from the CADfusion system or CADfusion environment due to a failure it is notified by its system resident CADfusion interface that communication with the CADfusion system environment has ceased. The operators of the component CAD system will then know to handle communications with any other component of the environment manually.

The CADfusion system continues to monitor the availability of all systems and upon restoration of a disconnected or otherwise unavailable component the CADfusion system requests a complete refresh of all active data. In the case of a failure of the CADfusion system the CADfusion system reconnects to all CADfusion components upon its restoration and requests a complete refresh of all active data. The CADfusion system then attempts to correlate and update all participating components on the status of shared resources and call information. This is facilitated by a global call index GCI for each active CAD incident.

Transactions with a GCI are easily correlated across the various CADfusion components allowing the entire environment to be resynchronized for those incidents. In addition components that may have been operating manually for a period of time due to a failure may have created CAD incidents that do not have an associated GCI. In at least some embodiments the CADfusion system does not attempt to synchronize related transactions that were created manually but allows the incidents to play out manually to termination. The creation of any new CAD incidents subsequent to the reconnection receive a GCI from the CADfusion system and are automatically synchronized across all participating components.

In manual methods negotiations etc. also manually refer to methods of sharing resources and calls between CAD systems and keeping disparate CAD systems aware of shared resources and calls without full utilization and synchronization provided to all the CAD systems by the CADfusion system . Manual and manually in the intended sense embraces fully manual methods that may be used when computer systems of one or more individual CAD systems is non functional e.g. power outage computer failure etc. as well as fully or partially computer aided methods with one or more manual non computer synchronized steps occurring between CAD systems.

Upon reconnection of the disconnected agency the disconnected agency refreshes the CADfusion system with active information and the CADfusion system correlates all information possible. In this embodiment active calls without GCIs are not forwarded to other agencies or given GCIs but are allowed to complete manually. When all manual processing is complete synchronization resumes for calls and all new calls are synchronized normally from the time of reconnect.

If however the reconnecting system does not still have a valid GCI the CADfusion system does not retransfer ownership of the resource to the loaning agency and does not re transfer GCI call information to the loaning agency. Thus even if the loaned resource is returned manually to the loaning agency and the loaning agency reports an available status to the CADfusion system the CADfusion system ignores the status update until the borrowing agency as owner of the resource releases the resource and closes the call. Thereupon the CADfusion system returns ownership of the resource to the loaning agency and forwards any status es reported by the loaning agency.

If however the reconnecting system does not still have a valid GCI the CADfusion system does not forward updates previously or later received from the loaning agency but instead transfers a resource status of unavailable to the borrowing agency. Similarly the CADfusion system ignores attempts of the borrowing agency to update the status of the resource and allows manual handling to continue. When the loaned resource is returned to the loaning agency and the loaning agency reports that the resource is available and thus closes the call GCI the CADfusion system then forwards the resource status as reported to the borrowing agency and synchronization proceeds normally as before the disconnect occurred.

When the CADfusion system becomes available again it issues a reconnection request whereupon the local CAD system reconnects to the CADfusion system and refreshes the CADfusion system with active information. The CADfusion system correlates all call information and the most current resource status information. All active calls without GCIs are not forwarded to other agencies but are allowed to complete manually in this embodiment. The CADfusion system also updates the reconnected CAD system with the most current information.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

