---

title: Automatically activated visual indicators on computing device
abstract: A computing device includes one or more memory devices storing executable instructions, one or more processors configured to execute the instructions, a programmable display screen configured to display text-based information, a user activity sensor, a battery configured to provide power to the one or more processors, and a battery status visual indicator. The battery status indicator is located on a surface of the computing device and is configured to display, in response an indication from the user activity sensor of an interaction by a user with the computing device, non-text-based information indicating a status of the battery.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09153106&OS=09153106&RS=09153106
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09153106
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140710
---
Computing devices such as laptops may have a light emitting diode LED indicator on the front or back of the device which may indicate an operating status of the device such as the device being on being in sleep mode or charging. This LED indicator has a single color LED and is driven by internal CPU controllers. However the internal CPU controllers do not have the capabilities of controlling the LED indicator in a configurable manner to indicate many types of information besides the operating status of a computer.

In addition the LED indicator may have a brightness that is suitable for daytime usage but which may be annoyingly bright when using the computing device in a dimly lit room.

In a first general aspect a computing device includes one or more memory devices storing executable instructions one or more processors configured to execute the instructions a programmable display screen configured to display text based information a user activity sensor a battery configured to provide power to the one or more processors and a battery status visual indicator. The battery status indicator is located on a surface of the computing device and is configured to display in response an indication from the user activity sensor of an interaction by a user with the computing device non text based information indicating a status of the battery.

Implementations can include one or more of the following features alone or in combination. For example the user activity sensor can include an accelerometer configured to detect movement of the computing device in response to the interaction by the user with the computing device and the indication can include an indication of the detected movement. The user activity sensor can include a microphone and a voice recognition engine which together are configured to detect predetermined words spoken by the user and the indication from the user activity sensor can include an indication of that the predetermined words have been detected by the voice recognition engine

The battery status visual indicator can include a light emitting diode. The surface on which the battery status visual indicator is located may not include the programmable display screen.

The computing device can be a laptop computer that can include a base portion and a display portion the display portion having a first surface that can include the programmable display screen and having a second surface opposite to the first surface that can include the battery status visual indicator.

The battery status visual indicator can include a plurality of segments with each segment being configured to display at least four different colors and the colors displayed by segments of the battery status visual indicator can be programmable though execution of the instructions by the one or more processors to display non text based information. The plurality of segments each can be generally rectangular and the plurality of segments can be arranged in a line and the plurality of segments can be contiguous in the line.

The computing device can be a laptop computer that can include a base portion and a display portion the display portion having a first surface that can include the programmable display screen and having a second surface opposite to the first surface that can include the battery status visual indicator and the line of segments can span a length that is greater than 50 of a width of the display portion and can have a height that is less than 10 of height of the display portion. Each segment can be configured to display at least eight different colors or at least 256 different colors.

The sensor can be configured to generate a signal to one of the processors in response to an indication of an interaction by a user with the computing device while the least one of the one or more processors is in a low power sleep state and the battery status visual indicator can be configured to display the non text based information indicating a status of the battery while at least one of the one or more processors is in a low power sleep state.

The computing device can include a light sensor configured to generate a signal when an amount of light striking the sensor is lower than a threshold amount and the battery status visual indicator can be configured to turn off in response to receiving the signal and can be configured to turn on and display for a predetermined time period in response to the indication from the user activity sensor of an interaction by a user with the computing device the non text based information indicating a status of the battery.

In another general aspect a method of displaying non text based battery status information via a battery status indicator located on a surface of a computing device that does not include a programmable display screen configured to display text based information is provided. The method includes determining while the computing device is in a low power sleep state that the computing device has experienced an interaction with a user and in response to the determination displaying the non text based battery status information via a battery status indicator.

Implementations can include one or more of the following features. For example determining that the computing device has experienced an interaction with a user can include determining that an accelerometer housed by the computing device has detected an acceleration of the computing device. Determining that the computing device has experienced an interaction with a user can include determining that predetermined words have been spoken by the user. Displaying the battery status information can occur while the computing device is in a low power sleep state.

In another general aspect a computing device includes one or more memory devices storing executable instructions one or more processors configured to execute the instructions a programmable display screen configured to display text based information a user activity sensor configured to detect activity of a user of the computing device while the computing device is in a low power sleep mode a battery configured to provide power to the one or more processors and a status indicator. The status indicator is located on a surface of the computing device that does not include a programmable display screen configured to display text based information and the status indicator is configured to provide in response an indication from the user activity sensor of an interaction by a user with the computing device non text based information indicating a status of the computing device.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

As described herein a computing device such as a laptop or desktop computer can include a visual indicator of an operating status of the computing device. The visual indicator can include a light whose color brightness etc. can be used to indicate a status of the computing device. For example a visual indicator can be used to indicate information about a status update battery that is used to power the computing device. The computing device also can include a sensor that detects a user s activity with respect to the computing device and that activates the visual indicator to provide information about the operating status of the computing device. In some implementations the sensor can include an accelerometer that can detect motion of the computing device. Then the sensor can activate the visual indicator in response to a user picking up the computing device or tapping on a surface of the computing device. Thus a user may receive information about an operating status of the computing device from a visual indicator when needed but the visual indicator otherwise can remain off so that it does not bother a user when the device is in a dimly lit room.

In some implementations the visual indicator can include a dynamic programmable multi color light emitting diode LED . In one implementation the multi color LED indicator may be located on a non display screen area of the computing device. For example the multi color LED indicator may be located on the backside of the display portion of the laptop computer e.g. opposite to the display portion of the laptop computer or on the backside of a display apparatus of the personal computer e.g. opposite to the display portion of the display apparatus . Regardless of the location the multi color LED indicator may include a plurality of segments with each segment being capable of displaying a plurality of colors such as green yellow and red among others. As such the multi color LED indicator may simultaneously display multiple colors.

Also according to the implementations the dynamic programmable multi color LED indicator may be configured to display multiple colors to convey particular information to an observer of the computing device. For example the multi color LED indicator can be programmed by a user or an administrator of the computing device to convey particular information to people in visual contact with the computing device.

The computing device may include an operating system at least one processor and a non transitory computer readable storage medium . The non transitory computer readable storage medium may include executable instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor to implement functionalities of the operating system applications and the multi color LED indicator .

The operating system may include an operating system such as the Windows operating system Mac OS Linux Chrome OS Android Symbian or iPhone OS to name a few examples. Consequently the applications may include virtually any application that may run on the underlying operating system or platform. Examples of such applications are well known and too numerous to mention in any detail but generally include web browsers document processing applications gaming applications email applications image editing or presentation software a web browser and or virtually any type of application capable of operating on an operating system.

The applications may include or use or be associated with one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs to communicate with the LED indicator where such APIs may be light weight consistent customizable and easy to implement within or among various applications . Moreover such APIs may rarely if ever need to be updated or maintained by the user in order for the user to programmably control the operation and display of the LED indicator . Instead such updates may be managed by an administrator or other provider of the LED indicator or the computing device so that the user of the device is unburdened of associated efforts and responsibilities. The operating system the applications and the APIs may issue commands to control the operation of the LED indicator and the commands are provided to the multi color LED indictor for displaying the color scheme.

Each segment may include different color LEDs. For example each segment can include a red LED a green LED and a blue LED. In some implementations the colors can be provided separately such that each segment can display four different colors e.g. red green blue or black . In other implementations single level outputs of the different LEDs in a segment can be mixed to produce eight different colors in a segment. In other implementations the output of the different LEDs can be mixed and different output levels from the different LEDs can be used to produce many different colors in a segment. In some implementations the colors from the LEDs can be mixed to produce at least 64 different colors. In some implementations the colors from the LEDs can be mixed to produce at least 256 different colors a.k.a. 8 bit color . In other implementations the colors from the LEDs can be mixed to produce at least 4096 different colors at least 32 768 different colors at least 65 536 different colors or at least 16 million different colors. As such the plurality of segments may provide the capability of displaying multiple colors at the same time. The optical diffusion and mounting assembly may include components related to each segment such as mounting hardware for the red green and blue LEDs electrical and heat management components and optical components for diffusing light emitted from the LEDs in the segments .

The controller may be an independently provided controller that is different from the internal controllers associated with controlling single color LEDs on conventional computing devices. The controller may receive commands from operating system the applications and the APIs and provide the LED level instructions to the optical diffusion and mounting assembly for displaying the appropriate colors. The LED level instructions may provide information indicating the appropriate emission pattern s for the desired color brightness and timing of the individual segments of the LED indicator . The LED controller functionality also may also be implemented by a processor executing stored instructions.

As shown in the multi color LED indicator may receive commands related to the display of one or more colors of the multi color indicator to control the illumination of colors. The commands may be in a format or syntax that is recognizable by the controller that controls a light emitting diode for displaying the appropriate color indicated by the LED display policy. To create a dynamic display using the indicator the color brightness and timing of the light emitted from the segments of the indicator can be controlled with commands issued to the indicator. For example to create a dynamic pulsing pattern commands may be issued to the indicator to initially display a first color and then over a first time period to gradually and continuously change the color to a second color while also increasing the brightness of the emitted light and then over a second time period to gradually and continuously change the color back to the first color while also decreasing the brightness of the emitted light and then to repeat the process. The color brightness and timing of light emitted from different segments can be coordinated to display information to the user.

As shown in the display portion can have a generally thin rectangular shape such that it has two primary opposed surfaces. A first surface not shown that faces the base portion when the display portion is in the closed position can include the high resolution programmable display screen that is configured to display text based information to a user. In some implementations a second surface that is opposite to the first surface e.g. a backside of the laptop computer can include the multi color LED indicator . In other implementations the multi color LED indicator can be located elsewhere on the laptop computer. For example the indicator can be located on a surface of the base portion on the first surface of the display portion or on an edge of the base portion or the display portion.

As shown in the multi color indicator can have a generally rectangular shape with different segments of the indicator arranged in a line. Individual segments of the indicator also can have generally rectangular shapes and can be arranged contiguously in a line. In some implementations the segments of the indicator can be arranged in a single line of segments. In other implementations the segments of the indicator can be arranged in two or more parallel lines of segments. In some implementations the length of the generally rectangular indicator can be at least 50 of the width w of the display portion . In some implementations the height of the generally rectangular indicator can be less than 10 of the height h of the display portion . In some implementations the multi color indicator can have a generally circular shape with different segments of the indicator having pie wedge shapes that together form the generally circular shape of the indicator . In some implementations the multi color indicator can have be generally ring shaped with different segments of the indicator having arc shapes that together form the ring shape of the indicator .

In some implementations the computing device can be configured as a tablet computing device having a display processing circuitry a memory device and a battery integrated in a single unit. The tablet can include a high resolution programmable display screen that is configured to display text based information to a user on one side of the tablet. The multi color indicator can be provided on an opposite side of the tablet from the high resolution programmable display screen.

Referring again to the multi color LED indicator is programmable to display non text based information in response to instructions received from the operating system applications and the APIs . The indicator can be programmable directly by a user of the computing device . In some implementations certain programmability of the indicator can be inaccessible to a general user of the computing device while the certain programmability can be available to a user with special credentials. For example certain displays of the indicator can be programmed when the device is configured by a manufacturer of the device and it may not be possible to unprogram these displays after the device has been delivered to an end user. In another example certain displays of the indicator can be programmed only by a user having system administrator credentials within an organization that owns the computing device and the certain displays cannot be unprogrammed by a general user of the device.

Programming of the indicator is facilitated by the API that translates executable instructions into commands that directly control the color brightness timing etc. of the segments of the indicator . In some implementations the executable instructions can be a snippet of scripting language code e.g. JavaScript . The scripting language code can be downloaded to the computing device from the Internet or from the private network and then the instructions that the code can be applied to the indicator via the API . In response to application of the instructions non text based information can be displayed by the multi segment multi color indicator .

The indicator can be used to display a variety of non text based information. For example the indicator may be programmed to indicate a power status of the computing device . In one example when the indicator has a generally rectangular shape and when the device is connected to a power source to charge a battery of the device different segments of the rectangular indicator can be repeatedly illuminated sequentially in a blue color from a first end of the indicator to a second end of the indicator to create a sweeping pulse of color to indicate that the device is being charged. The distance over which the rectangular indicator is repeatedly illuminated can indicate the charge status of the device. For example repeated sequential elimination of the rectangle extending 50 across the entire rectangle from the first end can indicate that the device is charged to 50 of its capacity and repeated sequential illumination of the rectangle extending 75 across the entire rectangle from the first end can indicate that the device is charged to 75 of its capacity.

When the device is not connected to a power source and is being used different segments of the indicator can be repeatedly illuminated sequentially in a red color toward the first end of the rectangular indicator to create a sweeping pulse of color to indicate that the device is consuming energy from its battery and that the battery is discharging. The distance over which the rectangular indicator is repeatedly illuminated can indicate the charge status of the device. For example repeated sequential elimination of the rectangle extending 50 across the entire rectangle toward the first end can indicate that the device is charged to 50 of its capacity and repeated sequential elimination of the rectangle extending 25 across the entire rectangle toward the first end can indicate that the device is charged to 25 of its capacity.

In some implementations the rectangular indicator can be oriented toward an AC adapter connection on the computing device and a blue sweeping pulse of color on the indicator away from the AC adapter connection can indicate that the battery of the device is charging while a red sweeping pulse of color on the indicator toward the AC adapter connection can indicate the battery of the device is discharging.

In some implementations the indicator can be used to indicate the presence of email chat phone etc. communications that the user has received. For example a first color may indicate the presence of a first type of communication e.g. an email a second color may indicate the presence of a second type of communication e.g. a voicemail etc. On a rectangular shaped indicator a length of a colored bar indicating the presence of a communication of a particular type can indicate a volume of communications of the particular type e.g. a number of new emails in the user s inbox . A blinking color may indicate the presence of an urgent communication where the color indicates a particular type of communication.

A user may program the indicator to display information about particular messages that are of particular importance to the user. For example the user can program the indicator to display a notification indicating the presence of a communication from a particular person e.g. a boss or a family member while programming the indicator not to display notifications of communications from other people. A user may program the indicator to display notifications based on other filter too.

In some implementations the indicator can be programmed to provide notifications of events a user has listed in a calendar application. For example the indicator can be programmed to provide a notification having a particular color timing and brightness to indicate that a calendared event is scheduled to begin soon.

In some implementations indicator can be a single light that provides status information about the computing device . For example the indicator can be a single LED that provides battery status information by for example changing color or blinking or some combination of the two. For example in some implementations a blue color of the indicator may indicate a full or nearly full charge e.g. greater than 85 of full battery capacity . A yellow color may indicate a partial charge e.g. between 15 and 85 of full battery capacity and a red color may indicate a nearly depleted battery e.g. less than 15 of full battery capacity . In some implementations the light may be illuminated continuously when the battery has a full or nearly full charge may blink slowly e.g. with the period of greater than one second when the battery has a partial charge and may blink rapidly e.g. with a period of less than one second when the battery charge is nearly depleted.

The computing device may include a sensor that senses user activity with respect to the computing device . Then the indicator can be activated in response to a signal from the sensor indicating user activity with respect to the computing device . In some implementations the sensor can include an accelerometer that is configured to detect movement of the computing device in response to an interaction by the user with the computing device. For example the accelerometer sensor may be configured to generate a signal indicating user activity when a user taps the housing of the computing device one or more times. For example the signal may be generated when the user taps the computing device three times in rapid succession e.g. in less than one second . In another example the accelerometer sensor may be configured to generate the signal when the user lifts or moves the computing device from a resting position.

In another implementation the sensor can include a microphone that is coupled to a voice recognition application running on the computing device . Then the indicator can be activated in response to receiving a predetermined voice command from the user that is detected by the microphone and recognized by the voice recognition application . For example a user may state tell me battery power or how much battery is left and when the voice recognition application is programmed to recognize these commands it may generate a signal that can be used to activate the indicator .

In response to being activated by the indication from the activity center of an interaction by a user with the computing device the indicator can provide status information about the computing devices . For example the indicator can provide information about the charge state of a battery within the computing device . After the indicator has provided the status information the indicator can be deactivated. For example when the indicator includes a light that illuminates to provide the status information after the status information has been provided the indicator can be deactivated e.g. the light can be turned off after a predetermined period of time e.g. 3 seconds 5 seconds 10 seconds . In this manner the indicator can be activated to provide the status information in response to an indication from the user activity sensor of an interaction by the user with the computing device and then the indicator can be deactivated. In this manner when the indicator includes an illuminating light the light can be activated only at times at which the light is likely to be useful to the user.

The computing device can include a light sensor located on an exterior surface of the computing device which determines the amount of light striking the sensor. The light sensor can be configured to generate a signal when amount of light striking sensor is lower than a threshold amount. The signal may be used to control the indicator such that the indicator is deactivated when the amount of light striking the sensor is lower than the threshold amount. In this manner the indicator can be deactivated when the computing device is in a dimly lit location where an illuminating indicator may be distracting or annoying to a user.

The computing device shown in may be configured to operate in a number of different power states. Such power states may include one or more active operating power states a low power sleep state e.g. a suspend to RAM power state or a suspend to nonvolatile medium power state and a powered off power state as some examples. The active power states may include a reduced power active state which may be used when the computing device is operating using battery DC power e.g. a battery power operating state in order to prolong battery life. The active power states may also include a full power active state which may be used when the computing device is operating using alternating current AC power e.g. an AC power operating state such as from a wall outlet. In other embodiments the computing device may operate in a full power active state regardless of whether the computing device is operating using battery or AC power. In the reduced power active state the computing device may operate at a reduced processing speed operate at a reduced voltage and operate with brightness of a display device at a lower level as compared with a full power active state for the computing device in order to increase the time between battery charges.

When the computing device transitions from an active power state to a low power sleep state the computing device may save operating state information for the computing device to RAM if the low power sleep state is a suspend to RAM state or to nonvolatile storage media if the low power sleep state is a suspend to nonvolatile media state . When placed in the low power sleep state the computing device may be in a non OS aware state in which the computing device is no longer in an active operating state with the operating system running.

When the computing device is in the low power sleep state after the operating state information is saved to RAM or to nonvolatile media a limited number of the components of the computing device may remain active including the RAM or the nonvolatile media that is used to preserve the operating state information. Sensor also may remain active so that the sensor may detect user activity with respect to the computing device and the computing device may perform limited functions in response to the indication of user activity even while the computing device remains in the low power sleep state. The at least one processor may include a low power processor that performs a few particular functions including responding to input from the sensor and controlling the indicator but which consumes relatively little power compared to a main processor e.g. a central processing unit 

Thus while the computing device is in the low power sleep state input from the sensor may be used to activate the indicator to provide operating state information about the computing device even while the computing device remains in the low power sleep state.

In the process while the computing device is in a low power sleep state it is determined that the computing device has experienced an interaction with a user . This determination can be made based on input from a user activity sensor e.g. an accelerometer that detects movement of the computing device caused by a user or a microphone that detects voice commands from a user . In response to the determination the non text based battery status information is displayed via a battery status indicator . In some implementations the battery status indicator can be a multi element LED and in some implementations the battery status indicator can be a single LED.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports shown and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device or memory on processor .

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer or a tablet computer. Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory or memory on processor that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smart phone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

It will be appreciated that the above implementations that have been described in particular detail are merely example or possible implementations and that there are many other combinations additions or alternatives that may be included.

Also the particular naming of the components capitalization of terms the attributes data structures or any other programming or structural aspect is not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names formats or protocols. Furthermore the system may be implemented via a combination of hardware and software as described or entirely in hardware elements. Also the particular division of functionality between the various system components described herein is merely exemplary and not mandatory functions performed by a single system component may instead be performed by multiple components and functions performed by multiple components may instead performed by a single component.

Some portions of above description present features in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations may be used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules or by functional names without loss of generality.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or providing or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

