---

title: Identity protection and management for electronic communication
abstract: Identity protection and management for electronic communication is described, including receiving a request to provide data from a first address to a second address, the request including an attribute associated with the second address, determining a risk value of the second address based on the attribute associated with the second address and a risk score, based on the risk value of the second address generating a third address that is associated with the first address, and providing the data and the third address to the second address without providing the first address to the second address.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09313170&OS=09313170&RS=09313170
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09313170
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140804
---
The subject matter discussed herein relates generally to identity protection and management of identity information for electronic communication and more particularly to automatically detecting reporting and stopping abuses of electronic communication by use of a proxy address based on a user determined risk value.

A user of an online account may communicate electronically with another party e.g. retailer financial institution or website . When the user communicates via electronic email or email the other party may acquire the contact information of the user of the online account such as the email address. The other party may subsequently disclose the contact information of the user to yet another party often without the consent or even knowledge of the user of the online account.

As a result of the above described disclosure of user information the user may receive unsolicited communication e.g. spam . When the information is disclosed to other parties the result may be that the user receives a large volume of spam. Under such circumstances the user may not be able to stop the spam communication or identify the party that initially disclosed the user s contact information.

For example Alice uses her email address alice xyz.com to send an email inquiry to ABC Corporation e.g. customer abc.com . Without Alice s knowledge or consent ABC Corporation discloses or sells the email address of Alice to 123 Corporation which in turn provides the email address to various other parties. Subsequently Alice receives spam from various email addresses. However none of the spam email addresses include the information of ABC Corporation or 123 Corporation. As a result Alice cannot determine that ABC Corporation initially gave away her information. Moreover it becomes difficult for Alice to manage her incoming email traffic and separate the spam from the non spam e.g. legitimate email.

Aspects of the example implementations relate to protection of the identity of a user for electronic communication e.g. email between a source and a destination. At the source a user generated risk attribute associated with the destination may be provided to a server. At the server a risk value is calculated based on the risk attribute from the user device and a server generated risk score based on for example aggregated information about the destination. Depending on the risk value the server may create a proxy address to communicate with the destination such that the true email address or other account identifier associated with the source is obfuscated from the destination. A reply from the destination is managed by the server to de obfuscate filter report and aggregate information related to destination and provide the information to the source.

The subject matter includes methods for identity protection and management for electronic communication including receiving at a server a request to provide data from a first address to a second address the request including an attribute associated with the second address determining a risk value of the second address based on the attribute associated with the second address based on the risk value of the second address generating a third address that is associated with the first address and providing by the server the data and the third address to the second address without providing the first address to the second address.

The subject matter further includes a non transitory computer readable medium having stored therein computer executable instructions for receiving a request to provide data from a first address to a second address the request including an attribute associated with the second address determining a risk value of the second address based on the attribute associated with the second address based on the risk value of the second address generating a third address that is associated with the first address and providing the data and the third address to the second address without providing the first address to the second address.

Additionally the subject matter includes at least one computing device comprising storage and a processor configured to perform receiving a request to provide data from a first address to a second address the request including an attribute associated with the second address determining a risk value of the second address based on the attribute associated with the second address based on the risk value of the second address generating a third address that is associated with the first address and providing the data and the third address to the second address without providing the first address to the second address.

The subject matter further includes at least one computing device comprising storage and a processor comprising means for receiving a request to provide data from a first address to a second address the request including an attribute associated with the second address means for determining a risk value of the second address based on the attribute associated with the second address based on the risk value of the second address means for generating a third address that is associated with the first address and means for providing the data and the third address to the second address without providing the first address to the second address.

The methods are implemented using one or more computing devices and or systems. The methods may be stored in computer readable media.

The subject matter described herein is taught by way of example implementations. Various details have been omitted for the sake of clarity and to avoid obscuring the subject matter. The examples shown below are directed to structures and functions for implementing identity protection and management for electronic communication.

Aspects of the example implementations are directed to a computer implemented method of automatically detecting abuses of electronic communication and providing the user with an opportunity to avoid disclosure of his or her own email identity during electronic communication.

For example a server may receive a request from a user e.g. source to transmit a message to a destination without providing the user s actual address to the destination by obfuscating the user s actual address and instead providing the destination with a proxy address. The user provides such a request along with information about the destination. For example the user may use account settings to identify the destination as an online retailer or merchant as opposed to a family member or friend and thus automate the generation of the proxy address prior to the generation of the electronic communication. The user may also request the use of the proxy address when generating the electronic communication e.g. user may be prompted via email interface or web form .

The server upon receiving the electronic communication request from the user may generate a risk score based on information about the destination. The server may combine the risk score with the user request to determine a risk value. Based on the risk value the server can generate the proxy address that is associated with the user s address and provide the proxy address but not the actual address of the user to the destination.

According to the example implementations the server generates the proxy address as a unique address for one or more external addresses with which a user communicates. For example but not by way of limitation the proxy address may be generated by transforming the first address by inserting one or more additional characters in a string of the first address or appending to the first address. In this example implementation the address of jayne xyz.com may be transformed into jayne abcd xyz.com or jayne.abcd xyz.com. In the example implementation the proxy address may be mapped to a plurality of external addresses. For example the proxy address may be mapped based on the domain of the external address rather than just a single external email address.

According to another example implementation undesired conversion of the proxy address to the original address by the recipient or other external parties can be further avoided by generating the proxy address by deriving an obfuscated address as the proxy address which cannot be converted to the first address without authorization. For example a mapping table at the server may be used including the use of a random string associated with the source address and the destination address in a table at the server.

A cryptography based approach may also be used in which a public key generates the proxy address and a reply message received from the destination is then decrypted by use of a private key. According to the cryptography based approach the server that receives the request from the sender generates a proxy address using the public key and some combination of the original sender address recipient address and salt and possibly other meta data as inputs to the encryption algorithm. Further an electronic communication e.g. email is provided to the recipient address with the proxy address as the From address. Next an email is received from an external address. The To field of the received email is decrypted using the private key. Accordingly the resulting decrypted To field can be parsed into the original sender address recipient address and any other encoded information. Subsequently the actions discussed herein and with respect to for example are performed.

In an alternate example implementation a one way hash approach may be implemented. According to the one way hash approach the sender server generates a proxy address using a hashing algorithm such as SHA 256 with salt and a set of inputs similar to the input in the above disclosed cryptography approach. Next a hashednon hashed mapping is associated with a lookup table. It should be noted that unlike the foregoing example cryptographic approach the hashing in the present example implementation cannot be subsequently reversed. Then the electronic communication e.g. email is provided to a recipient address with the proxy address as the From address. The email is received from the external party. Next the To address is looked up in the hash mapping lookup table and the associated original address is found. Based on the foregoing lookup operation the resulting To field can be parsed into the original sender address recipient address and any other encoded information. Subsequently the actions discussed herein and with respect to for example are performed.

Once the destination has received the proxy address the proxy address may be disclosed or sold to another party without the permission of the source. In such a situation when the proxy address is used to send spam the server receives the electronic communication and may filter the sending of the message to the user or provide the message to the user with further information about the originator of the spam.

The server may aggregate the information of destinations that are originators of spam activity and develop further information or recommendations for such destinations and provide reports to users. For example the server may provide a report e.g. regular or monthly report to a user with a risk profile e.g. spam activity based on the destinations of electronic communication.

An example of one or more devices may be computing device described below in . Devices may include but are not limited to a computer e.g. a laptop computing device a mobile device e.g. smartphone or tablet a television a device associated with a vehicle a server computer computing devices storage devices and .

In some implementations devices may be considered user devices e.g. devices used by users to access services and or issue requests such as on a social network . These devices may be considered the source or first address where the electronic communication originates. Devices may be devices associated with service providers or destination e.g. used by service providers to provide services and or store data such as webpages text text portions images image portions audios audio segments videos video segments and or information thereabout .

The destinations at devices may provide the identity of the source or first address to another party that may cause spam to be sent to the user. Network may be considered the location of the server that performs processes to automate detection reporting and management and executes one or more processes of the example implements disclosed herein.

For example a user e.g. Alice may electronically communicate via email interface or web form using user device or on a network with XYZ Corporation at one or more devices . A recipient e.g. XYZ Corporation may receive the electronic communication from Alice sent via network .

For example but not by limitation party A at device may provide an electronic communication to the server . The electronic communication may include the destination address message attachments and other information as would be understood by those skilled in the art. Additionally the electronic communication may include an attribute or instruction generated by party A. The attribute may include an instruction from party A for the server to provide a proxy address to party B without showing the actual address of party A. Optionally party A may make this decision by taking into account information provided from server in advance at electronic communication for example recommending or warning the user of possible risk associated with party B.

Based on the instructions from party A in electronic communication the server generates the proxy address as described herein and provides an electronic communication bearing the proxy address but not the actual address of party A to party B. Accordingly when party B discloses the proxy address to other parties which may generate spam the other parties will be receiving the proxy address and not the actual address of party A. For example when party B or another party communicates with party A via communication the server receives the proxy address. Depending on the preference of the user e.g. blacklist whitelist filter warning etc. the server processes the message addressed to the proxy address. Further the server may transmit electronic communication to party A at device . Electronic communication may include but is not limited to a flag or warning that the party B has sent a reply. The actual content of the reply may or may not be provided to party A depending on the preference of party A.

In order for the user e.g. party A to generate electronic communication an interface may be provided at the time of generating the electronic communication or as a party of the account settings so that the user may determine preferences in advance of generating the electronic communication. illustrate various example user interfaces for a user to manage the electronic communication and proxy address features. However the user interfaces do not limit the scope of the example implementations and merely serve as examples of user interfaces. Other user interfaces may be substituted therefor as would be understood in the art without departing from the scope of the inventive concept.

When the user address is populated e.g. automatically by the electronic communication application as jayne XYZ.com an option is displayed that allows the user to select Use proxy email . If the user selects option then the electronic communication from the device to the server will include an instruction from the user to generate the proxy address. Further the electronic communication will also include other content . The electronic communication will be transmitted once the user selects the SEND object . Thus the attributes and the user instruction are generated at the time of generating the electronic communication in the example implementation of .

For example in for recipient XBANK the user having the actual user address of jayne is actively using the proxy jayne2341 . This proxy address has been used to generate 10 third party messages 13 spam messages and 2 viruses. The user thus continues the Active status for this proxy address. In contrast for recipient XCOM the proxy address has generated no third emails no spam messages and no viruses. Accordingly the user may determine to suspend or delete this proxy address based on the lack of risky activity. For recipient KAYLEE the proxy jayne8237 is being used with an Active status as there are 2 third party emails and 5 spam messages although there are no viruses. Accordingly the user may manage proxy addresses via account settings such that the attribute is automatically generated when the electronic communication is created and automatically incorporated into electronic communication as the attribute without the user selecting the option shown in .

The foregoing example implementations of are directed to the generation of the attributes. As explained above the attributes are provided to the server which calculates a risk value based on the attributes as well as optionally calculating a server generated risk score. Once the determination has been made to use a proxy address the proxy address is created for the electronic communication. As explained above the proxy address may be newly created or may be a persistent proxy address. To manage proxy addresses the database may include for example a table.

Further the user may determine the recipients or types of recipients to be treated by use of the unique proxy addresses. For example but not by way of limitation the user may flag recipients based on email or account address domain or other identifying information. Classes of recipients e.g. commercial organizations government private email university or other may also be the basis for determining whether to use a proxy address. Recipients having no previous communication history with the user or recipients that have been determined to be untrusted or not considered trusted as of yet may also be tagged by the user for proxy address communication. Further the manner of contact such as via email web form mobile third party application or other manner may be a basis for automatic tagging for proxy address communication. Other information such as reputation score e.g. external party evaluation may also form the basis of an automated tagging for proxy address communication.

As shown in the second row the email address foo XCOM test.com is an active proxy address provided to the XCOM domain and specifically to test xcom.com. In the third row the proxy address foo54376 test.com is the proxy address and based on risk determination e.g. activity of the user or aggregated report generated by the server all email addressed to this proxy address is blacklisted. For example the proxy address may have been provided by test xcom.com to a third party which has sent viruses or spam to users and thus all emails received bearing this proxy address are blacklisted.

As shown in the fourth row dfghsfegd test.com is a proxy address that appears obfuscated to make it more difficult for the target entity XCOM to determine the source. The proxy address remains active for the target email test xcom.com.

With respect to the fifth through eighth rows in the table of similar results are shown for another original email address and target. The foregoing description also applies to these rows. Additionally the wild card is used in xbank.com indicating that one or more email addresses that include any account name prior to xbank.com will be associated with the proxy address.

Further the table is not limited to eight rows or any specific number of rows and may contain the information of any number of source destination combinations and may include further columns containing additional information e.g. message content reason for blacklist number of spam or virus reports etc. as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

At optionally a determination is made as to whether the recipient is tagged e.g. represents a risk for the use to expose his or her actual email identity due to spam virus etc. based on the server risk score. For example but not by way of limitation the server risk score may be calculated based on an aggregation of responses to proxy addresses across multiple users a spam or virus report associated with the recipient or other metric for determining risk. If the risk exceeds a threshold e.g. based on number or percentage of spam originating from the recipient user complaints or other metric the recipient is indicated as tagged at .

If the recipient is not tagged at based on the server risk score at a determination is made as to whether the recipient is tagged based on the attribute transmitted by the user. For example the attribute of may be a user instruction provided in the email interface of or the web form of at the time of creation of the electronic communication or based on account settings or a user profile as shown in . If the attribute indicates that the proxy address should be used the recipient is considered tagged at .

While and are shown in sequence in the processes may be performed in the same order or reverse order in sequence. Alternatively the processes may be performed in parallel e.g. substantially simultaneously . Further is optional and the example implementation may proceed by only performing process and not performing process .

For the determination that the recipient is tagged at and or the electronic communication is provided to the recipient with only a proxy address and not the actual address at . Also at the proxy address is selected. As noted above the proxy address may be used on a one time basis or persistent depending on the preference of the user. For example the user may choose to continue to use the same proxy address as discussed above with respect to or change the proxy address or generate a new proxy address at each instance of creating an electronic communication. Thus the proxy address may be generated as described above e.g. random string and table or cryptography and public key and private key .

Alternatively if there is no indication of risk by the server at or attribute from the user at the electronic communication is provided to the client at with the original email and not with any proxy address. Accordingly this communication may also be recorded in the table of e.g. first row indicating a status of original .

According to the example process of a proxy address may be used for electronic communication as shown in based on user information e.g. via user interfaces of and server risk determination. Thus the recipient may receive an email from a proxy address without knowing the actual identity of the email address. Further because the proxy address may be an email address for which the original address cannot be derived e.g. use of random string cryptography or the like as noted above the recipient cannot determine the identity of the sender.

On the other hand if the recipient provides the proxy address to another party and spam or virus communication is subsequently sent to the proxy address the server can use the table of to associate the proxy address with the original address or a private key maintained to decrypt the proxy address and thus obtain the original address. Because the proxy address is associated with a specific recipient the server can associate the spam virus or other activity e.g. risky activity sent by other parties with the party that originally provided or sold the proxy address.

On the other hand if it is determined at that the email address is a proxy address at it is determined whether the proxy address is restricted. For example but not by way of limitation the server may check in a blacklist filter risk report or other information to determine whether the proxy address is restricted.

If it is determined at that the proxy address is restricted then at the action taken by the server is to not provide the email to the user e.g. a first action . The email may be included in an aggregate report on the risk of the recipient simply deleted without further action or stored for further analysis. Alternatively the user may be informed that a restricted email has been received and may be given the option of accessing that email in the form of a report e.g. periodic containing such information.

If it is determined at that the proxy address is not restricted then at the proxy address is transformed into the original address e.g. a second action . As explained above this transformation may be conducted by way of lookup table cryptology or other manner as would be understood by those skilled in the art. Once the transformation of has been completed the email is sent to the user at .

In some examples processes or may be implemented with different fewer or more blocks. Processes or may be implemented as computer executable instructions which can be stored on a medium loaded onto one or more processors of one or more computing devices and executed as a computer implemented method.

Computing device can be communicatively coupled to input user interface and output device interface . Either one or both of input user interface and output device interface can be a wired or wireless interface and can be detachable. Input user interface may include any device component sensor or interface physical or virtual that can be used to provide input e.g. buttons touch screen interface keyboard a pointing cursor control microphone camera braille motion sensor optical reader and or the like . Output device interface may include a display television monitor printer speaker braille or the like. In some example implementations input user interface and output device interface can be embedded with or physically coupled to the computing device . In other example implementations other computing devices may function as or provide the functions of input user interface and output device interface for a computing device .

Examples of computing device may include but are not limited to highly mobile devices e.g. smartphones devices in vehicles and other machines devices carried by humans and animals and the like mobile devices e.g. tablets notebooks laptops personal computers portable televisions radios and the like and devices not designed for mobility e.g. desktop computers other computers information kiosks televisions with one or more processors embedded therein and or coupled thereto radios and the like .

Computing device can be communicatively coupled e.g. via I O interface to external storage and network for communicating with any number of networked components devices and systems including one or more computing devices of the same or different configuration. Computing device or any connected computing device can be functioning as providing services of or referred to as a server client thin server general machine special purpose machine or another label.

The I O interface may include wireless communication components not shown that facilitate wireless communication over a voice and or over a data network. The wireless communication components may include an antenna system with one or more antennae a radio system a baseband system or any combination thereof. Radio frequency RF signals may be transmitted and received over the air by the antenna system under the management of the radio system.

I O interface can include but is not limited to wired and or wireless interfaces using any communication or I O protocols or standards e.g. Ethernet 802.11x Universal System Bus WiMax modem a cellular network protocol and the like for communicating information to and or from at least all the connected components devices and network in computing environment . Network can be any network or combination of networks e.g. the Internet local area network wide area network a telephonic network a cellular network satellite network and the like .

Computing device can use and or communicate using computer usable or computer readable media including transitory media and non transitory media. Transitory media include transmission media e.g. metal cables fiber optics signals carrier waves and the like. Non transitory media include magnetic media e.g. disks and tapes optical media e.g. CD ROM digital video disks Blu ray disks solid state media e.g. RAM ROM flash memory solid state storage and other non volatile storage or memory.

Computing device can be used to implement techniques methods applications processes or computer executable instructions in some example computing environments. Computer executable instructions can be retrieved from transitory media and stored on and retrieved from non transitory media. The executable instructions can originate from one or more of any programming scripting and machine languages e.g. C C C Java Visual Basic Python Perl JavaScript and others .

Processor s can execute under any operating system OS not shown in a native or virtual environment. One or more applications can be deployed that include logic unit application programming interface API unit input unit output unit risk value determining unit proxy address generating unit transmission management unit and inter unit communication mechanism for the different units to communicate with each other with the OS and with other applications not shown . For example risk value determining unit proxy address generating unit and transmission management unit may implement one or more processes shown in . The described units and elements can be varied in design function configuration or implementation and are not limited to the descriptions provided.

In some example implementations when information or an execution instruction is received by API unit it may be communicated to one or more other units e.g. logic unit input unit output unit risk value determining unit proxy address generating unit and transmission management unit . For example risk value determining unit may make a determination of the risk of a recipient based on aggregated information across users individual user feedback or reports or other statistical data. Based on the risk value the risk value determining unit may request the proxy address generating unit to either create a new proxy address or select a persistent proxy address as explained above.

Further the transmission management unit may manage communication between the source and the destination e.g. recipient . The foregoing may occur after input unit has detected a user indication or feedback input unit may use API unit to communicate the user indication to risk value determining unit . Risk value determining unit may via API unit interact with the proxy address generating unit to detect and process a comment. Using API unit risk value determining unit may interact with transmission management unit to determine whether to propagate the feedback and or identify information to an upstream post.

In some instances logic unit may be configured to control the information flow among the units and direct the services provided by API unit input unit output unit risk value determining unit proxy address generating unit and transmission management unit in some example implementations described above. For example the flow of one or more processes or implementations may be controlled by logic unit alone or in conjunction with API unit .

Any of the software components described herein may take a variety of forms. For example a component may be a stand alone software package or it may be a software package incorporated as a tool in a larger software product. It may be downloadable from a network for example a website as a stand alone product or as an add in package for installation in an existing software application. It may also be available as a client server software application as a web enabled software application and or as a mobile application.

In situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or may make use of personal information the users may be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features collect user information e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities profession a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to receive content from the content server that may be more relevant to the user. In addition certain data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about the user and used by a content server.

Although a few example implementations have been shown and described these example implementations are provided to convey the subject matter described herein to people who are familiar with this field. It should be understood that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in various forms without being limited to the described example implementations. The subject matter described herein can be practiced without those specifically defined or described matters or with other or different elements or matters not described. It will be appreciated by those familiar with this field that changes may be made in these example implementations without departing from the subject matter described herein as defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

