---

title: Airborne hyperspectral scanning system with reflective telecentric relay
abstract: An airborne hyperspectral scanning system with a reflective telecentric relay including a system housing fore-optics, mounted in the housing, an imaging spectrometer mounted in the housing, the imaging spectrometer comprising a spectrometer slit, the spectrometer slit having an exit side and an entrance side, a focal plane array, a fold mirror, and at least three spectrometer mirrors, ordered sequentially, and in optical alignment with each other, and a reflective telecentric relay, mounted in the housing between the fore-optics and the imaging spectrometer, the reflective telecentric relay comprising a collimator module, a scanning mirror module, and an objective module, the objective module being situated to receive intermediate image from the fore-optics and reflect a collimated beam to the scanning mirror image between the collimator module and the objective module, wherein the objective module is situated to form a telecentric image at the entrance of the spectrometer slit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09372115&OS=09372115&RS=09372115
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 09372115
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140805
---
This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. 11 c 0346 awarded by a classified agency. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to airborne systems and particularly to hyperspectral scanning systems incorporating relays.

Significant advances have been accomplished in the development of airborne hyperspectral systems. The hyperspectral sensor is a major part of airborne surveillance systems. The airborne sensor requires high performance optics that provides broad spectral coverage on over a deployed field of view FOV . High spectral and spatial resolution also is required to detect and recognize ground targets from high altitude.

Typical airborne hyperspectral optical system consists of fore optics relay or reimaging optical system and spectrometer.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 886 953 May 3 2005 discloses imaging all reflective spectrometer which consists of objective module in a form of three mirror anastigmat TMA or in a form of five powered mirrors and collimating and imaging module which comprises a set of three powered mirrors. The intermediate image is created between the objective module secondary and tertiary mirrors and intermediate pupil is created before the collimating and imaging module entrance slit. System includes imaging detector which receives a portion of the objective module output and a hyper spectral imaging detector that receives a portion of the output of the collimating and imaging module. There is no telecentric pattern of light at the intermediate pupil plane and cross field scanning cannot be implemented.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 880 834 Mar. 9 1999 discloses an imaging system having all reflective fore optics in the form of TMA and an imaging Offner spectrometer. The fore optics forms an intermediate image at a slit before the spectrometer. An off axis primary spectrometer mirror delivers radiation onto a secondary spectrometer mirror diffraction grating and a tertiary spectrometer mirror reflects light from the grating to form multi spectral images on a detector surface.

Further. U.S. Pat. No. 6 100 974 Aug. 8 2000 discloses an imaging all reflective system including fore optics also in the form of a TMA and a dispersive Offner spectrometer consisting of three mirrors decentered with respect to one another. All relevant portions of the mentioned 834 and 974 U.S. patents are incorporated by reference.

Further U.S. Pat. No. 7 944 559 May 17 2011 discloses airborne all reflective hyperspectral imaging system with a fore optics and Offner type spectrometer having one common axis of symmetry.

There are drawbacks of known hyperspectral imaging systems deployed in airborne and military applications however. Existing hyperspectral imaging systems are not compact and cannot be deployed for scanning the target on the existing platforms.

Accordingly there is a need for a high performance hyperspectral scanning imaging airborne system that is compact and provides good performance across the field and spectrum.

According to the invention an airborne hyperspectral scanning system with reflective telecentric relay includes fore optics deployed in a platform housing and comprises of a primary fore optics mirror a secondary fore optics mirror and a tertiary fore optics mirror wherein each of the mirrors has an associated reflective surface. The fore optics mirrors situated in a form of a TMA are configured so that electromagnetic radiation or light from a distant object is collected on the surface of the primary fore optics mirror and directed toward the surface of the secondary fore optics mirror. The secondary fore optics mirror directs the light toward the surface of the tertiary fore optics mirror and the tertiary mirror forms an intermediate image corresponding to the object at an entrance side of reflective telecentric relay. The fore optics may be decentered with respect to an object in order to avoid vignetting and obscuration of the radiation coming from the target.

The airborne hyperspectral scanning system may also include a reflective telecentric relay mounted on the deployed platform housing and which is comprised of three modules. Two modules have optical powers and represent a collimating module and an objective module. The third module comprises a scanning mirror and is located between the collimating and objective modules. The relay configuration relay magnification and relay focal length are defined along the central ray of the beam coming from the target. Relay modules fulfill three purposes reimage intermediate TMA image onto the slit before the spectrometer conjugate relay aperture stop located at the scanning mirror with TMA aperture stop and spectrometer aperture stop and provide telecentric pattern of radiation at both the scanning mirror and spectrometer slit planes.

Collimating power module comprises a relay primary mirror a relay secondary mirror a relay tertiary mirror and a relay fourth mirror. The relay primary mirror is disposed in operative relation to an exit side of the TMA and converges beam from the TMA intermediate image directing it onto the relay secondary mirror. The relay secondary mirror further converges the beam and directs it onto the relay tertiary mirror. Relay tertiary mirror diverges the beam and directs it to the relay fourth mirror. After the relay fourth mirror radiation collimated along the central ray of the beam is directed onto the scanning mirror. The relay aperture stop is located at the scanning mirror and the collimator module conjugates the TMA aperture stop with a scanning mirror and objective module conjugates the scanning mirror with a spectrometer hard aperture stop. The combination of the relay primary and relay secondary mirrors represents a telephoto configuration and combination of the relay tertiary and relay fourth mirrors represents a reverse telephoto configuration for aberrational correction and compactness.

A scanning mirror module is placed in the telecentric pattern of radiation between the collimator module and the objective module and performs the cross field scan. Location of the mirror allows reducing size of the reflective optics along with compactness while obtaining the necessary field of view.

An objective module comprises a primary objective mirror a second objective mirror and a third objective mirror. The objective module mirrors are formed as a triplet with a negative optical power mirror inside and positive optical power mirrors outside. The primary objective mirror is disposed in operative relation to an exit side of the scanning mirror and directs converged radiation onto the relay seventh mirror. The second objective mirror diverges the radiation and directs it onto the third objective mirror. The third objective mirror forms an intermediate telecentric image at an entrance side of a spectrometer slit. Primary secondary and third objective mirrors may also be referred to as relay sixth seventh and eighth mirrors respectively.

The Petzval field curvature of the relay is corrected to obtain a flat field along the central ray of the incoming beam of radiation. The relay mirrors radii air spacings between the mirrors and the mirrors decentrations and tilts provide the solution for the compactness of the reflective telecentric relay and corrections of the field aberrations with respect to the central ray of the beam. The scanning mirror is located in the telecentric pattern of radiation and relay output is at the spectrometer slit plane is telecentric as well.

The imaging system may also include an imaging hyperspectral spectrometer mounted in the deployed platform housing and which is comprised of a primary spectrometer mirror a secondary spectrometer mirror and a tertiary spectrometer mirror each of which has an associated reflective surface. The primary spectrometer mirror is disposed in operative relation to an exit side of the spectrometer slit and the secondary spectrometer mirror has an associated diffraction grating. The spectrometer mirrors are configured so that light from the exit side of the spectrometer slit is incident on the surface of the primary mirror and directed toward the diffraction grating of the secondary mirror diffracted light from the grating is incident on the surface of the tertiary mirror and the tertiary mirror forms a final spatial and spectral image of the object on a focal plane array mounted in the housing.

Each reflective surface of the fore optics mirrors reflective telecentric relay mirrors and the spectrometer mirrors may be a segment of a defined solid surface which has a known axis of a rotational symmetry. The fore optics the reflective telecentric relay and the spectrometer mirrors segments may be mounted and aligned inside the system housing so that the optical axes all mirrors segments are defined along the chief ray of the incoming beam.

For a better understanding of the invention reference is made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawing and the appended claims.

Turning to the preferred embodiment of an airborne hyperspectral scanning system with reflective telecentric relay according to the invention system is generally comprises of fore optics a reflective telecentric relay and Offner imaging spectrometer . The spectrometer assembly may include focal plane array. All of them are assembled aligned and contained within the existing deployed in a field housing not shown in . Preferably fore optics represents three mirror anastigmat TMA . Reflective telecentric relay assembly output is telecentric at the slit before the spectrometer. Offner imaging spectrometer is doubly telecentric so that the final image size will not change with an axial position of either the slit or the focal plane array. This enables constant spectral sampling regardless of the slit and focal position. A constant and known spectral sampling is necessary to identify an object via its spectral components. In addition telecentricity at the image plane allows for an extremely uniform image plane illumination which maximizes the utility of the focal plane array in system .

Now turning also to the preferred embodiment of an airborne hyperspectral scanning system with reflective telecentric relay where the ray trace corresponding only to the axial field point and small number of rays is depicted for clarity. Size of the mirrors is delimited by the clear apertures. Fore optics is configured as a three mirror anastigmat and has primary fore optics mirror as a first optical component. Light rays from e.g. an external scanning mirror are directed toward a reflective surface of primary mirror and the reflective surface directs the light toward a reflective surface of secondary fore optics mirror which acts as a second optical component of fore optics . Secondary fore optics mirror is conjugated with TMA aperture stop . Secondary fore optics mirror directs light toward a reflective surface of tertiary fore optics mirror through fold mirror . Tertiary fore optics mirror acts as a third optical component of fore optics and light rays from tertiary fore optics mirror through fold mirrors and forming intermediate image at the entrance of reflective telecentric relay . This intermediate image is conjugated with spectrometer slit located at the entrance of Offner imaging spectrometer . The TMA conic constants are used as the parameters to eliminate three third order aberrations spherical coma and astigmatism. The optical powers and air gaps between the mirrors are arranged to eliminate the field curvature when maintaining the focal length. All TMA mirrors and TMA aperture stop may have a common geometrical axis of symmetry to make assembly alignment and test less laborious and less consuming time procedures. Additionally TMA mirrors may not have a common geometrical axis of symmetry. The preferred embodiment utilizes a three mirror set up but the use of additional intermediate mirrors is also anticipated.

Intermediate image may be optically corrected to be substantially free of field curvature and distortion. If the distortions are too large then adjacent spectral spatial channels will overlap thus reducing the spectral sensitivity of the imaging system. Typical airborne hyperspectral imagers require both spectral and spatial distortions to be less than 0.2 pixels. Low distortion also aids the image scanning process.

The TMA which may be used in multi channel sensor s configuration usually has to have a diffraction limited performance. The TMA performance depends on a TMA envelope the larger the distance between the primary and secondary fore optic mirrors the easier it is to correct the field aberrations. In this case mirrors optical powers may be reduced which may lead to the reduction of the angles of incidence of the chief and marginal rays at the mirrors.

The Petzval field curvature induced by the primary and tertiary mirrors is compensated by the secondary mirror optical power. A positive coma induced by the primary fore optic mirror is compensated by the negative coma induced by the secondary and tertiary fore optic mirrors. Making some of the mirrors aspherical allows compensation of a spherical aberration which is quite high in this type of design. The secondary and primary fore optic mirrors can be made as second order aspheres for the large enough envelopes for the compact design one or both of them preferably are high order aspheres.

Relay mirrors and represent a collimating module and objective mirrors and represent an objective module. Scanning mirror is disposed between the collimating and objective modules of the relay.

Light incoming from TMA is directed by fold mirror toward a surface of relay first mirror . Relay first mirror converges light and directs it onto a surface of relay second mirror . Relay second mirror diverges the light and directs it toward relay third mirror . Relay third mirror further diverges light and directs it toward relay fourth mirror . Then light is collimated by relay fourth mirror and is directed onto scanning mirror . In the aforementioned embodiment four relay mirrors are used but the use of additional intermediate relay mirrors is anticipated. In order to accommodate a large field of view with relatively small optics scanning mirror may be positioned inside between the collimating module and objective module of relay in a telecentric pattern of light. Scanning mirror allows continuous scanning across the field of view. In order to avoid vignetting and to maintain the uniform aperture and F number F across the field the relay aperture stop may be located at the scanning mirror. Telecentric pattern of chief rays may be maintained at the scanning mirror in order to provide telecentric scanning with a scanning beam always perpendicular to the spectrometer slit and to not introduce the spatial smile and spectral key stone distortions. Moreover telecentricity at the scanning mirror allows for lesser sensitivity to the scanning mirror positioning.

Scanning mirror is conjugated with the TMA aperture stop by means of relay collimating module which consists of relay mirrors and . Scanning mirror projects slit before spectrometer through the collimating module and fore optics into the target space. Collimated light reflected from scanning mirror is directed toward the relay objective module which consists of objective mirrors and . Primary objective mirror converges light and directs it toward secondary objective mirror . Secondary objective mirror diverges the light and directs it onto tertiary objective mirror . Tertiary objective mirror collimates the light and directs it by fold mirror through window into spectrometer slit . Relay conjugates spectrometer slit with intermediate image . Telecentric pattern of light at scanning mirror and spectrometer slit is maintained during the scanning process. The aforementioned objective module embodiment utilizes three objective mirrors but the use of additional intermediate objective mirrors is also anticipated.

Hyperspectral spectrometer may unfold spectrum into spectral channels this allows a precise detection of the spectral signatures of the target being scanned.

Spectrometer may be implemented in Offner form and comprise of spectrometer window spectrometer slit fold mirror spectrometer primary mirror spectrometer secondary mirror spectrometer tertiary mirror detector assembly window and focal plane array . The spectrometer slit has an entrance side and an exit side. Spectrometer slit may be formed in a known manner e.g. as a rectangle and is typically from 40 to 80 microns m wide. Slit width a contributing factor to spectral resolution may be oriented perpendicular to the axis around which scanning is performed. Slit length may be sufficient to accommodate the height of the intermediate image formed by the light rays from tertiary objective mirror of the relay . Light coming from spectrometer slit is directed by fold mirror onto primary spectrometer mirror and then converged light is directed toward secondary spectrometer mirror . Secondary spectrometer mirror represents diffraction reflective grating and a hard aperture stop may be placed at secondary spectrometer mirror . Secondary spectrometer mirror disperses the light onto spectral channels with 10 nm spectral width and directs them onto tertiary spectrometer mirror . Tertiary spectrometer mirror collimates the light and directs it through detector assembly window onto the focal plane array . In the preferred embodiment spectrometer is made rotationally symmetric so that primary spectrometer mirror and tertiary spectrometer mirror are made as a one solid mirror working with different off axis reflective apertures.

In addition to the fundamental performance a flat focal plane and telecentricity at the slit may be significant instrument design considerations. Telecentricity may be used in order to make performance less sensitive to the slit defocusing along the chief ray of the beam. Also telecentricity at the slit reduces variation of the spatial smile and chromatic key stone distortions during scanning.

At the scanning process the airborne hyperspectral system delivers emitted reflected light which may include spectral information of the target to the focal plane array. The information may be developed and processed by special software. Then based on the output data the decision on target content can be made.

Some or all the reflective surfaces of the mirrors of fore optics may be segments of solid surfaces that are generally aspherical i.e. surfaces that do not form part of a sphere such as for example surfaces that are ellipsoidal hyperboloidal or paraboloidal in shape. Alternatively some or all of the reflective surfaces may be conics or spherical. In preferred embodiment these surfaces are rotationally symmetric and have a common geometrical axis but it is not necessary. Preferably for TMA the surfaces are segments of the following solid surfaces 

Fore optics operates with off axis apertures. In order to not obscure the radiation which comes from the target the TMA aperture stop decenter with respect to TMA common axis field of view and TAM focal length along the chief ray shall have relations as follows 

Further the relationships between constructive parameters of fore optics are preferably as follows 0.24 to 0.44 0.50 to 0.70 0.25 0.44 0.55 0.85 EFL 0.15 0.30

Wherein and are optical powers along the chief ray of the primary the secondary and the tertiary fore optics mirrors respectively. is the optical power along the chief ray of the whole TMA. Dand Dare the distances along the chief ray between the primary and secondary TMA mirrors EFLis the focal length along the chief ray of the TMA.

It has been demonstrated that the foregoing relationships among the optical powers of fore optics allow for correction of cross field coma astigmatism and field curvature at intermediate image . Also foregoing relationships allow correction of the pupil spherical aberration and coma.

For clarity optical diagram of a reflective telecentric relay for the full field showing only working off axis segments of the relay mirrors is presented in . Light enters relay through TMA aperture stop and the TMA intermediate image is formed at plane . Relay may include collimating and objective modules and scanning mirror assembly.

According to an embodiment the collimator module may comprise of collimator module first mirror collimator module second mirror collimator module third mirror and fourth mirror . Collimator module fifth mirror may be a scanning mirror and is disposed in the light collimated around the chief ray and rotates around the axis perpendicular to the plane of drawing and along the slit length. The combination of the collimator module first mirror and collimator module second may represent a telephoto configuration and combination of the collimator module third mirror and collimator module fourth mirror may represent a reverse telephoto configuration necessary for aberrational correction and compactness.

A scanning mirror module may be placed in the telecentric pattern of radiation between the collimation and objective modules and performs the cross field scan. A scanning mirror module may comprise of a scanning mirror. Location of the mirror allows reducing size of the reflective optics along with compactness while obtaining the necessary field of view.

Scanning mirror may be conjugated with TMA aperture stop and spectrometer aperture stop. An objective module may comprise of objective primary mirror objective second mirror and objective third mirror . Spectrometer entrance slit is centered with respect to the chief ray of the beam. Telecentric pattern of rays is maintained at the slit. The objective module mirrors are formed as a triplet with objective secondary mirror having negative optical power inside and objective primary mirror and third mirror having positive optical power outside.

Each reflective telecentric relay mirror may be decentered with respect to the TMA intermediate image and with respect to each other. The geometrical axis of each of relay mirror may not coincide with the chief ray of the beam. This configuration allows compactness and adds degrees of freedom for achieving a necessary performance at the slit plane.

Turning now also to an embodiment may be an unfolded configuration of the reflective telecentric relay. shows full surface profiles of the relay mirrors and optical path. Light after the TMA goes through TMA aperture stop . The TMA forms an image at intermediate image plane . Then intermediate image plane is conjugated with slit . A relay collimator module first mirror may have a positive optical power. Its surface profile may represent a high order aspherical elliptical surface. A relay collimator module second mirror may have a negative optical power and its profile may represent a high order aspherical hyperbolical surface. A relay collimator module third mirror may have a negative optical power profile representing a high order aspherical oblique elliptical surface. A relay collimator module fourth mirror profile represents a high order aspherical hyperbolical surface. Scanning mirror may be flat and centered at the chief ray of the light beam and rotates around the axis parallel to the slit long side imaging slit onto the object space through the collimation module of the relay and TMA. A relay objective first mirror may represent a high order aspherical elliptical surface. A relay objective second mirror may represent a high order aspherical hyperbolical surface. A relay objective third mirror may represent a high order aspherical elliptical surface. One can see that all relay mirrors work with off axis segments and beam is reflected in a very narrow compact tunnel as it goes from the intermediate image to the slit. Relay may maintain telecentric pattern of light at the slit this feature allows slit insensitivity to the defocusing while providing a necessary correction of the spectral and spatial distortions. Mutual combination of the relay mirror profiles mirrors tilts and decentrations with respect to mirrors geometrical axes leads to along chief ray aberrational correction and low F 3.2 along the chief ray.

In order to provide all foregoing features the relations between constructive parameters of the telecentric reflective relay presented in and are preferably as follows 5.50 6.50 2.50 3.60 0.25 0.50 4.10 4.85 0.10 0.35 0.60 0.80 0.35 0.50 EFL OP 0.08 0.20 EFL EFL 2.50 3.50 EFL EFL 0.075 0.095

Wherein are optical powers along the chief ray of the relay collimator module first second third and fourth mirrors are optical powers along the chief ray of relay objective module sixth seventh and eighth mirrors and are optical powers along the chief ray of the relay and collimating and objective modules correspondingly EFLis effective focal length along the chief ray of the relay OPis optical path along the chief ray between the relay first and last mirrors EFLis paraxial effective focal length of the relay and EFLis the TMA effective focal length along the chief ray.

Foregoing relations allow for the relay to provide a good performance at the slit all energy is concentrated in a blur spot less than 0.0018 inches see .

Imaging spectrometer in the preferred embodiment represents a tree mirror Offner type configuration with a common geometrical axis for all three mirrors. According to imaging spectrometer in system of has primary spectrometer mirror with a reflective surface that is positioned to receive light exiting from the spectrometer slit and to direct the light toward secondary spectrometer mirror . Secondary spectrometer mirror acts as an aperture stop and incorporates diffractive element on its surface. Diffracted light having spectral components with wavelengths between 2500 nm and 800 nm is reflected by secondary spectrometer mirror toward a reflective surface of tertiary spectrometer mirror . Tertiary spectrometer mirror then forms an image of the diffracted light on an active surface of focal plane array . The image should be substantially free from spatial and spectral distortions. According to and embodiment of the invention each of the reflective surfaces of the mirrors and of Offner imaging spectrometer may be a segment of a solid surface which has a known geometrical axis of symmetry that is each reflective surface may be rotationally symmetric about the axis of symmetry of the solid surface of which it is a segment. In the preferred embodiment spectrometer primary mirror and spectrometer tertiary mirror may represent off axis segments of one reflective surface and the center of primary mirror s clear aperture may be positioned at the point of intersection of the chief ray coming from spectrometer slit with a primary mirror surface. According to the preferred embodiment all spectrometer mirrors may be spherical but they also may be performed as aspherical surfaces. In order to correct aberrations with respect to the chief ray spectrometer mirrors may be decentered with respect to each other.

Moreover relationships between constructive parameters of the imaging spectrometer are preferably as follows 0.40 0.60 0.85 1.15 EFL 0.35 0.45 EFL EFL 0.70 0.80

Wherein and are optical powers along the chief ray of the primary the secondary and the tertiary imaging spectrometer mirrors respectively is the decentration of the slit in direction perpendicular to the slit long side with respect to the geometrical axis of the spectrometer primary mirror EFLis the effective focal length along the chief ray of the spectrometer primary mirror EFLis the effective focal length along the chief ray of the relay.

Referring to it has been demonstrated that the foregoing relationships among the optical powers of fore optics reflective telecentric relay and Offner imaging spectrometer allow for correction of coma astigmatism and field curvature at both spectrometer slit and focal plane array . Spectral and spatial distortion magnitudes do not exceed 1 10th of a pixel for a 25 micron pixel size. Other desirable results are that reflective telecentric relay and imaging spectrometer both are doubly telecentric the field of view is large FNO is low and spectral sampling is high.

The systems of can meet the following specification when constructed as described above. shows a Modulation Transfer Function MTF calculated for the airborne hyperspectral system with reflective telecentric relay.

A preferred embodiment of the airborne hyperspectral scanning system with reflective telecentric relay described herein is compact and can be mounted onto existing housing of airborne sensors platforms. Hyperspectral scanning system with reflective telecentric relay according to the invention allows scanning the target during the flight for recognition of the target content based on the spectral sampling. System provides an aberrational correction of the imaging slit with a spatial and spectral distortions correction. The fore optics accepts electromagnetic radiation or light from distant objects and forms an intermediate image before the reflective telecentric relay. A reflective relay consisting of collimator scanning mirror and objective modules accepts electromagnetic radiation for the intermediate image and forms a well corrected telecentric image at an entrance of the spectrometer slit. A scanning mirror inside the relay may be located at the collimated light pattern for the chief ray distortion correction during scanning. Light exiting the slit is directed by a primary mirror of the imaging spectrometer to a diffraction grating at a secondary mirror of the spectrometer. Diffracted light from the grating is directed toward a tertiary spectrometer mirror which forms an image pattern on a focal plane array. The image pattern represents multiple spectral components of the intermediate image at the slit. Defined relationships between the optical powers of the fore optics and the imaging spectrometer components enable correction of spatial and spectral distortion as well as near diffraction limited image quality.

The inventive system preferred embodiment according to has a low F number of 3.3 along the chief ray and a wide field of scanning view. The spectral wavelength range is 800 nm to 2500 nm and the field is 0.630 inches spatial by 0.167 inches spectral. Compared to existing systems this system is very compact and may be fit to the existing airborne sensors.

Sequence 1 is an optical prescription of an airborne hyperspectral scanning system with reflective telecentric relay according to the invention.

While the foregoing represents preferred embodiment of the invention it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications and changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention and that the invention includes all such modifications and changes as are within the bounds of the following claims.

