---

title: Off-premises alert system and method for wireless power receivers in a wireless power network
abstract: Embodiments in the present disclosure may be directed to an off-premises alert system and method for one or more wireless power receivers in a wireless power network. The system and method may include automated software embedded on a wireless power receiver that may be triggered every time a wireless power receiver is turned on. The system and method may be employed in stores where customers may use wireless power receivers to charge their mobile devices such as smartphones, tablets, and the like, while being inside the store. The method may prevent customers from not returning the wireless power receiver by producing an audible alert in the power receiver. If customer fails to return wireless power receiver, the method may then automatically report details regarding the lost wireless power receiver to an appropriate authority through automatic communication connection through any intervening network cloud-based media.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09368020&OS=09368020&RS=09368020
owner: Energous Corporation
number: 09368020
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141230
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 330 926 filed on Jul. 14 2014 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application relates to U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 891 430 filed May 10 2013 entitled Methodology For Pocket forming U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 925 469 filed Jun. 24 2013 entitled Methodology for Multiple Pocket Forming U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 946 082 filed Jul. 19 2013 entitled Method for 3 Dimensional Pocket forming U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 891 399 filed May 10 2013 entitled Receivers for Wireless Power Transmission U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 891 445 filed May 10 2013 entitled Transmitters for Wireless Power Transmission U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 14 583 625 filed Dec. 27 2014 entitled Receivers for Wireless Power Transmission U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 14 583 630 filed Dec. 27 2014 entitled Methodology for Pocket Forming U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 14 583 634 filed Dec. 27 2014 entitled Transmitters for Wireless Power Transmission U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 14 583 640 filed Dec. 27 2014 entitled Methodology for Multiple Pocket Forming U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 14 583 641 filed Dec. 27 2014 entitled Wireless Power Transmission with Selective Range U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 14 583 643 filed Dec. 27 2014 entitled Method for 3 Dimensional Pocket Forming all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to wireless power networks and more specifically to an off premises alert system and method for wireless power receivers in a wireless power network.

Electronic devices such as laptop computers smartphones portable gaming devices tablets and so forth may require power for performing their intended functions. This may require having to charge electronic equipment at least once a day or in high demand electronic devices more than once a day. Such an activity may be tedious and may represent a burden to users. For example a user may be required to carry chargers in case his electronic equipment is lacking power. In addition users have to find available power sources to connect to. Lastly users must plug in to a wall power socket or other power supply to be able to charge his or her electronic device.

An approach to mitigate this issue may include using RF waves through suitable power transmission techniques such as pocket forming. This approach may provide wireless power transmission while eliminating the use of wires or pads for charging devices. In addition electronic equipment may require less components as typical wall chargers may not be required. In some cases even batteries may be eliminated as a device may fully be powered wirelessly.

The approach may enable the creation of wireless power networks similar in structure to regular wireless local area networks WLAN where a wireless access point is used to provide internet or intranet access to different wireless devices. A wireless power transmitter may provide wireless power charging to a plurality of wireless power receivers that may be embedded in covers for smartphones tablets or the like. These covers may be used in any commercial establishment by customers that seek to charge their mobile devices. However since these covers may be small in size they could be stolen from the establishment or people may just forget to return them when they leave the premises. Instead of covers wireless power receivers may also be embedded within other form factors and or connected to customer mobile devices directly or by appropriate cable.

For the foregoing reasons there is a need for an off premises alert system and method for wireless power receivers in a wireless power network.

Embodiments in the present disclosure may be directed to an off premises alert system and method for one or more wireless power receivers in a wireless power network. The system and method may include automated software embedded on a wireless power receiver that may be triggered every time a wireless power receiver is turned on.

In one aspect of the present disclosure a system architecture that may enable the registration and communication controls between wireless power transmitter and one or more wireless power receivers is disclosed. Wireless power receivers may include covers and customer pocket forming enabled devices.

In one embodiment wireless power transmitter may include a microprocessor that integrates a power transmitter manager app PWR TX MGR App and a third party application programming interface Third Party API for a Bluetooth Low Energy chip BTLE CHIP HW . Wireless power transmitter may also include an antenna manager software Antenna MGR Software to control an RF antenna array that may be used to form controlled RF waves which may converge in 3 D space and create pockets of energy on wireless power receivers covers and customer pocket forming enabled devices .

In another embodiment covers may include a power receiver app PWR RX APP a third party application programming interface Third party API for a Bluetooth Low Energy chip BTLE CHIP HW and a radio frequency RF antenna array which may be used to receive and utilize the pockets of energy sent from wireless power transmitter.

In yet another embodiment customer pocket forming enabled devices may refer to a wireless device such as smartphones tablets or any of the like that may include an integrated wireless power receiver for wireless power charging. Customer pocket forming enabled devices may include a power receiver app PWR RX APP and a third party application programming interface Third Party API for a Bluetooth Low Energy chip BTLE CHIP HW . Customer pocket forming enabled devices may also include an RF antenna array which may used to receive and utilize pockets of energy sent from wireless power transmitter. Said pocket forming enabled device may feature a GUI app to manage or monitor the wireless power transmission system. GUI may be downloaded from any suitable application store and may run on any suitable operating system such as iOS and Android among others.

In another aspect of the present disclosure a flowchart of an off premises alert method for one or more wireless power receivers in a wireless power network is disclosed. The method may include a series of steps where a customer may walk into a shop and request wireless power for charging his or her mobile device. The customer may then ask at the counter of the shop for wireless power the employee of the shop may take a wireless power receiver or cover and register the customer with the wireless power receiver given to the customer. The customer may then use the wireless power receiver or cover to charge his or her mobile device such as a smartphone tablet or the like. The customer may spend the time he or she may need to charge his or her mobile device in the shop and then when finished return the cover. However if the customer forgets to return the cover and leaves the premises a power transmitter manager may detect distance or loss of communication with the wireless power receiver and thus stop communicating and charging the wireless power receiver. Subsequently the wireless power receiver may generate an audible alert that may increase as the customer walks further away from the shop where the wireless power transmitter manager is located. The customer may then hear the alert and return to the premises to handle the wireless power receiver to the shop. Furthermore said power transmitter may respond to loss of communication connection with wireless power receiver after a minimum period of time by the assumption that said wireless power receiver is lost and by next establishing a communication connection through the network cloud to a system management server or a remote information service that are both part of said power transmitter s wireless power transmission system. After establishment of said connection power transmitter may communicate to the system management server or remote information service a detailed description of a lost missing wireless power receiver that may include receiver s unique identification UUID when and where it was lost ID of power transmitter and any other details. Subsequently said remote information service may automatically communicate alerts by text messages SMS email or voice synthesis telephone call to the proper authority to handle said loss.

Numerous other aspects features and benefits of the present disclosure may be made apparent from the following detailed description taken together with the drawing figures.

The present disclosure is here described in detail with reference to embodiments illustrated in the drawings which form a part here. Other embodiments may be used and or other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description are not meant to be limiting of the subject matter presented here.

 Real time communication refers to communicating the status of data at the receiver at the continuing present time where a proprietary algorithm may read the present state of important information at the receiver continually and rapidly with only 1 100th of a second of delay.

 Transmitter may refer to a device including a chip which may generate two or more RF signals at least one RF signal being phase shifted and gain adjusted with respect to other RF signals substantially all of which pass through one or more RF antenna such that focused RF signals are directed to a target.

 Receiver may refer to a device including at least one antenna element at least one rectifying circuit and at least one power converter which may utilize pockets of energy for powering or charging an electronic device.

 Pocket forming may refer to generating two or more RF waves which converge in 3 D space forming controlled constructive and destructive interference patterns.

 Pockets of energy may refer to areas or regions of space where energy or power may accumulate in the form of constructive interference patterns of RF waves.

 Ad may refer to one or more Bluetooth Low Energy BTLE advertisement message transmitted from a BTLE device.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used here to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended. Alterations and further modifications of the inventive features illustrated here and additional applications of the principles of the inventions as illustrated here which would occur to one skilled in the relevant art and having possession of this disclosure are to be considered within the scope of the invention.

Methods disclosed here may be part of a wireless power transmission system including two or more wireless power transmitters one or more wireless power receivers one or more optional system management servers and one or more optional mobile or hand held computers smart phones or the like that run the system management GUI app. This app may be made available at downloaded and installed from a public software app store or digital application distribution platform such as Apple s iTunes Google s Play Store Amazon s Appstore and the like.

The power transmitters and management servers may all communicate with each other through a distributed system database and may also communicate present status and any status change to a remote information service that may be located in the Internet cloud.

One or more wireless power transmitters may automatically transmit power to any single wireless power receiver that is close enough for it to establish a communication connection with using a suitable communication technology including Bluetooth Low Energy or the like. Said receiver may then power or charge an electrically connected client device such as mobile device toy remote control lighting device and the like. A single wireless power transmitter may also power multiple wireless power receivers simultaneously.

Alternately the system can be configured by the system management GUI to automatically only transmit power to specific wireless power receivers depending on specific system criteria or conditions such as the time or hour of the day for automatic time based scheduled power transmission power receiver physical location owner of client device or other any other suitable conditions and or criteria.

The wireless power receiver is connected electrically to a client device such a mobile phone portable light TV remote control or any device that would otherwise require a battery or connection to wall power. In one or more embodiments devices requiring batteries can have traditional batteries replaced by wireless power receiver batteries. The wireless power receiver then receives energy transmitted from the power transmitter into receiver s antenna rectifies conditions and sends the resulting electrical energy through an electrical relay switch to the electrically connected client device to power it or charge it.

A wireless power transmitter can transmit power to a wireless power receiver which in response can power or charge its associated client device while device is in use or in motion anywhere within the power transmission range of the wireless power transmitter. The wireless power transmitter can power multiple devices at the same time.

The wireless power transmitter establishes a real time communication connection with each receiver for the purpose of receiving feedback in real time such as 100 samples per second . This feedback from each receiver includes the measurement of energy presently being received which is used by the transmitter to control the direction of the transmitter s antenna array so that it stays aimed at the receiver even if the receiver moves to a different physical 3 D location or is in 3 D motion that changes its physical 3D location.

Multiple wireless power transmitters can power a given single receiver in order to substantially increase power to it.

When a transmitter is done transmitting power to a receiver it may communicate to the receiver that power transmission has ended and disconnect communication. The wireless power transmitter may then examine its copy of the distributed system database to determine which if any receivers in power range it should next transmit power to.

In one embodiment wireless power transmitter may include a microprocessor that integrates a power transmitter manager app PWR TX MGR APP and a third party application programming interface Third Party API for a Bluetooth Low Energy chip BTLE CHIP HW . Wireless power transmitter may also include an antenna manager software Antenna MGR Software to control an RF antenna array that may be used to transmit controlled Radio Frequency RF waves which may converge in 3 D space. These RF waves may be controlled through phase and or relative amplitude adjustments to form constructive and destructive interference patterns pocket forming . Pockets of energy may form at constructive interference patterns that may be 3 Dimensional in shape whereas null spaces may be generated at destructive interference patterns. Pockets of energy may be formed on wireless power receivers covers and customer pocket forming enabled devices . In some embodiment Bluetooth Low Energy chip may be another type of wireless protocol such as WiFi or the like.

Power transmitter manager app may include a database not shown which may store system status configuration or relevant information from wireless power receivers such as identifiers voltage ranges location signal strength and or any relevant information from a wireless power receivers.

Power transmitter manager app may call third party application programming interface for running a plurality of functions such as start a connection end a connection and send data among others. Third party application programming interface may command Bluetooth Low Energy chip according to the functions called by power transmitter manager app .

Third party application programming interface at the same time may call power transmitter manager app through a callback function which may be registered in the power transmitter manager app at boot time. Third party application programming interface may have a timer callback that may go for ten times a second and may send callbacks every time a connection begins a connection ends a connection is attempted or a message is received.

Covers may include a power receiver app PWR RX APP a third party application programming interface Third party API for a Bluetooth Low Energy chip BTLE CHIP HW and a RF antenna array which may be used to receive and utilize the pockets of energy sent from wireless power transmitter .

Power receiver app may call third party application programming interface for running a plurality of functions such as start a connection end the connection and send data among others. Third party application programming interface may have a timer callback that may go for ten times a second and may send callbacks every time a connection begins a connection ends a connection is attempted or message is received.

Covers may be paired to a wireless device such as a smartphone or tablet among others via a BTLE connection by using a graphical user interface GUI that may be downloaded from any suitable application store and may run on any suitable operating system such as iOS and Android among others. Covers may also communicate with wireless power transmitter via a BTLE connection to send important data such as an identifier for the device as well as battery level or charge status information antenna voltage any other hardware status software status geographic location data or other information that may be of use for the wireless power transmitter .

In other embodiments GUI may also be installed on a wireless device smartphones or tablets that may not have the cover . GUI may perform operations to communicate with power transmitter manager app via BTLE connection or any other wireless communication protocols such as WiFi and LAN among others. In this embodiment GUI management app still performs the same function as previously described to manage or monitor the wireless power transmission system.

Customer pocket forming enabled devices may refer to a wireless device such as smartphones tablets or any of the like that may include an integrated wireless power receiver circuit not shown in for wireless power charging. Customer pocket forming enabled devices may include a power receiver app PWR RX APP and a third party application programming interface Third Party API for a Bluetooth Low Energy chip BTLE CHIP HW . Customer pocket forming enabled devices may also include an RF antenna array which may receive and utilize pockets of energy sent from wireless power transmitter . GUI may be downloaded from any suitable application store and may run on any suitable operating system such as iOS and Android among others.

Power receiver app may call third party application programming interface for running a plurality of functions such as start a connection end the connection and send data among others. Third party application programming interface may have a timer callback that may go for ten times a second and may send callbacks every time a connection begins a connection ends a connection is attempted or message is received.

Customer pocket forming enabled devices may also communicate with wireless power transmitter via a BTLE connection to send important data such as an identifier for the device as well as battery level information antenna voltage geographic location data or other information that may be of use for the wireless power transmitter .

The wireless power network may include one or more wireless power transmitter and multiple wireless power receivers that may be either a cover or a customer pocket forming enabled devices.

Method may include automated software embedded on a wireless power receiver that may be triggered every time a wireless power receiver is turned on.

In one embodiment method may start at step when a customer goes into a shop and approaches the check out. Then at step an employee of the shop that may be at the counter may ask the customer if he or she requires charging for the customer s device. If the customer does not require charging for his or her device then the process ends. If the customer does require charging the employee may ask the customer if his or her device has a customer pocket forming enabled device at step . If the customer s device is not a pocket forming enabled device then at step the customer is given a power receiver device also referred as a cover and the employee may use a GUI to register the given cover at step . Likewise if the customer does have a pocket forming enabled device the employee may use a GUI to register the customer pocket forming enabled device at step . Then at step customer may charge his or her device for the time they need charge. Next at step the customer may decide to leave the premises. Then at step if the customer has a customer pocket forming enabled device the customer may just leave the premises and the process ends. However if the customer has a power receiver or cover then the customer may return the cover and leave the premises or he or she may forget to return the cover at step .

If customer forgets to return the cover he or she may leave the premises at step . Subsequently at step when the customer is at a certain distance away from the store the power transmitter manager at the store may detect the distance or loss of communication with the power receiver or cover lent to the customer. In other embodiments the power receiver detects no communication with the power transmitter manager for a minimum amount of time. Then at step the power transmitter manager may stop communication with and charging the power receiver. The power receiver then at step may generate an audible alert that the customer may hear as he or she goes further from the store. Subsequently at step the customer may decide to whether return to premises or not. If customer returns to premises then at step customer may return the power receiver. If customer decides to not return to premises then at step power transmitter reports details of the lost receiver such as when where and receiver s ID among others to the system management server or the remote information service that are both part of the wireless power transmission system s network.

In example 1 a customer enters a coffee shop and buys a cup of coffee. At checkout the customer asks for power to charge a smartphone. The customer s smartphone includes a suitable GUI for interacting with a wireless power network. A power receiver or cover with an embedded power receiver is associated with the customer by an employee using a GUI device and the cover is given to the customer. Then the smartphone is paired with a power receiver or cover. The smartphone starts receiving power from the power transmitter as long as the customer stays in the coffee shop. After some time the smartphone reaches a desired level of charge and the customer leaves the coffee shop. Subsequently when the customer is at a certain distance away from the coffee shop the power transmitter manager may detect the distance or loss of communication with the power receiver or cover lent to the customer and then stop charging and communication with the power receiver. Then the power receiver or cover may generate an audible alert that may increase in volume as the customer gets further from the coffee shop. The customer then hears the alert and returns to the coffee shop to return the power receiver or cover.

The foregoing method descriptions and the process flow diagrams are provided merely as illustrative examples and are not intended to require or imply that the steps of the various embodiments must be performed in the order presented. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the steps in the foregoing embodiments may be performed in any order. Words such as then next etc. are not intended to limit the order of the steps these words are simply used to guide the reader through the description of the methods. Although process flow diagrams may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination may correspond to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed here may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

Embodiments implemented in computer software may be implemented in software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. A code segment or machine executable instructions may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and methods is not limiting of the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and methods were described without reference to the specific software code being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and methods based on the description here.

When implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable or processor readable storage medium. The steps of a method or algorithm disclosed here may be embodied in a processor executable software module which may reside on a computer readable or processor readable storage medium. A non transitory computer readable or processor readable media includes both computer storage media and tangible storage media that facilitate transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A non transitory processor readable storage media may be any available media that may be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory processor readable media may comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other tangible storage medium that may be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that may be accessed by a computer or processor. Disk and disc as used here include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media. Additionally the operations of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a non transitory processor readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

The preceding description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined here may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown here but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the following claims and the principles and novel features disclosed here.

