---

title: Medical device
abstract: Novel devices and methods for implanting medical stents are provided. A novel apparatus, which may be in a first compressed position, may be inserted into the artery, such as by being positioned over a catheter. The apparatus may be expanded to a second position. In one embodiment, the apparatus is configured to expand away in two substantially opposing directions along a second axis away from the longitudinal axis. The second axis may be perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. The apparatus may include markers that are detectable to determine the orientation of the catheter or the apparatus and/or assist in the determination of the type or size of stent to utilize.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09480584&OS=09480584&RS=09480584
owner: RBKPARK LLC
number: 09480584
owner_city: St. Charles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141223
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 782 410 entitled MEDICAL DEVICE filed May 18 2010 which is expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for any and all non limiting purposes.

As is known the human heart circulates blood throughout the body. Depending on the individual the heart beats between 80 000 and 140 000 times per day. During normal function of the heart the left and right atria and the left and right ventricles contract causing blood to flow. The blood flows from the heart passes through a set of blood vessels known as arteries that feed the organs and tissue in the body and then returns to the heart through a set of blood vessels known as veins. This circulation provides nutrients and oxygen to the body so that it can continue to function.

As the heart is basically a continuously functioning muscle it also needs a steady supply of nutrients in order to function. For example a coronary artery supplies blood and the associated oxygen and nutrients to the cardiac muscle. In order for the heart to continue to function it is crucial that this artery continue to function properly.

Unfortunately the coronary artery can become partially or completely blocked. One cause is left main coronary artery disease LMCD . LMCD may be caused for example by the accumulation of fatty tissue on the wall of the left main artery. LMCD is generally defined as a greater than 50 reduction in the left main which results in insufficient blood flow to the heart tissue and eventually causes damage to the heart tissue.

While partial blockage can result in permanent damage to the heart muscle sudden complete blockage of the left main will result in the death of the individual. Therefore maintaining blood flow through the left main is crucial to an individual s ability to exist. Any symptomatic blockage must be immediately treated.

Two methods of treatment of a partially or completely blocked left main are 1 percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty PTCA also referred to as percutaneous coronary intervention PCI and commonly referred to as balloon angioplasty or angioplasty and 2 coronary artery bypass graft CABG commonly referred to as bypass surgery. Due to a number of factors the most common procedure to treat LMCD has been bypass surgery.

In essence bypass surgery uses section of veins or arteries sections from other parts of the body to connect the aorta to a point downstream of the blockage. This allows blood to flow around the blockage point through a separate passageway. Depending on the severity and location of the blockage as many as four to five grafts are necessary.

One downside to bypass surgery is that it takes a substantial time to perform. For a patient with a totally occlusion or a severely blocked left main the time it takes to perform bypass surgery may be too long. Therefore in emergencies balloon angioplasty has been performed on patients suffering from sudden LMCD.

Another problem is that bypass surgery is only effective for about 8 10 years at which point a patient generally requires additional treatment that is generally less effective. Given the potential long term health problems it is desirable to delay bypass surgery if possible.

Furthermore certain patients medical conditions are incompatible with the rigors of bypass surgery. For example some patients have severe co morbid conditions precluding open heart surgery such as malignancy with limited life expectancy no longer are a candidate for bypass surgery. Thus while bypass surgery is a useful medical procedure that has saved many lives it is best saved for situations where less complex procedures cannot be used effectively.

In addition some interventional cardiac catheterization labs are not backed up by surgical programs. This is problematic in situations where the LMCD must be treated immediately e.g. iatrogenic dissection of the left main .

Compared to bypass surgery angioplasty can be done relatively quickly and is generally less traumatic to the patient. Basically during angioplasty a wire is inserted into the artery. A flexible catheter is then guided along the wire. A balloon attached to the catheter is positioned in the left main at the point of blockage and the balloon is inflated to open the artery. To keep the artery open a stent may be placed in the left main. One common method of delivering the stent is to wrap it around the balloon. Thus the inflation of the balloon causes the stent to expand into position. The stent acts as a scaffolding to support the wall of the artery and when coated with anti restenotic agents can be an alternative means of treating certain types of LMCD.

Sometimes blockage of the body s passageways occur at a junction. For example blockage often occurs at the junction of the left main and the left anterior descending artery and the left circumflex artery. In such a situation the medical practitioner must ensure that insertion of a stent or other medical device does not substantially occlude the junction. Practitioners often image the affected area such as with an angiogram to determine the proper placement of a stent or other implantable devices. Unfortunately failure to precisely determine the proper orientation of the artery and or the stent may result in placing the stent in a position that occludes the junction. For example an image from a first perspective may prompt a practitioner to believe that a stent is properly aligned however a perspective shift may reveal that the stent is not aligned. Further markers on the stent indicate the orientation of the stent in relation to that perspective not the orientation with respect to a second perspective or the orientation of the stent with respect to the passageway.

This further complicated by the fact that secondary branches and angles between the different branches are varied from person to person as well as from junction to junction making it difficult to accurately determine the proper sized stent. In fact using a stent that is sized too small may cause the stent to angle within the vessel in a manner that blocks normal flow. Unfortunately this problem may not be discovered using existing technologies. Another major limitation is that much higher operator skill is required to position such a stent quickly thus making it more likely that such a stent will be improperly installed. Thus methods and systems that allow more accurate selection and placement of stents are desirable. Further other medical fields would greatly benefit from improved stents and methods for implanting stents.

Aspects of the invention relate to medical stents and methods for implanting medical stents. One aspect relates to novel methods for more accurately inserting a stent in a passageway such as an artery. In one embodiment methods correct parallax which under certain conditions result in the misplacement of a stent within a junction. Certain methods may be implemented upon detecting a complication within a first passageway. In one embodiment an angiogram is taken from a first perspective that may reveal at least a portion of the complication such as an aneurism within the artery. A novel apparatus which may be in a first compressed position may be inserted into the artery. The novel apparatus may be positioned over a catheter. In one embodiment the catheter may be a pigtail catheter.

Upon being placed within the lumen of the artery the length of the apparatus may travel substantially along the longitudinal axis of the artery. The apparatus may be expanded to a second position. In one embodiment the apparatus is configured to expand away in two substantially opposing directions along a second axis away from the longitudinal axis. The second axis may be perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. In one embodiment the expansion of the apparatus may have a known predetermined expansion. The selection of such an apparatus may consider among other factors the type of passageway it will be expanded within and or unique properties of the passageway within the specific living being. In other embodiments the apparatus may expand until met with a predetermined force such as meeting the inner perimeter of the artery.

Once expanded the apparatus may comprise one or more markers positioned along at least a portion of the apparatus length. In other embodiments markers may be positioned along any major or minor axis including but not limited to the width and or depth of the expansion. Markers may be placed on an outer perimeter of the apparatus and thus measure the diameter of the lumen of an artery. The apparatus may also have markers that are detectable when in the first unexpanded configuration. One or more groups of markers may be separated by a predetermined distance and a plurality of markers separated by a predetermined distance along the second axis.

In certain methods a second image may be captured following the expansion of the apparatus to the second position. In one embodiment one group of markers are detectable when using a first imaging technique and a second group of markers are detectable using a second imaging technique. In certain implementations the orientation of the catheter or the apparatus may be determined based upon the second captured image. In further embodiments imaging capturing equipment may be used to capture an image from a second perspective. In still further embodiments the shape and or the size of a stent may be determined based upon the positions of at least a portion of markers of the apparatus.

Aspects of the invention relate to novel apparatuses that may be positioned within a passageway such as an artery to overcome prior deficiencies in the art. In one embodiment the novel apparatuses may be implemented in accordance with one or more methods described above. In one embodiment the apparatus may be configured to be positioned around a catheter and inserted a passageway such as an artery. In one embodiment the catheter is a pig tail catheter configured to dispense a contrast dye. The apparatus may be expanded from a first configuration to a second configuration. In one embodiment the apparatus may be configured to have a known predetermined expansion. The selection of such an apparatus may consider among other factors the type of passageway it will be expanded within and or unique properties of the passageway within the specific living being. In other methods the apparatus may expand until met against a specific force such as expanding until pressed against the inner perimeter of an artery.

The apparatus may expand along two substantially opposing directions along a second axis. The second axis may be the width or the depth in certain implementations. In one embodiment the second axis will expand across the diameter of a passageway if its substantially cylindrical. Upon expansion to the second configuration markers along at least a portion of the apparatus length may be separated by a predetermined distance. Markers may also be positioned along the second axis or other locations. One group of markers may be detected by a first imaging technique while a second group of markers are configured to be detected by a second imaging technique. Furthermore the length of the apparatus may increase as it expands from the first configuration to the second configuration.

The detection of one or more markers may allow the determination of the orientation of the catheter or the apparatus. Determination of one or more certain markers may further assist in determining another perspective that when compared to the first perspective reduces parallax effects. In certain embodiments the detection of markers may indicate the proper size and or type of stent that may be best suited. In other embodiments markers may assist in determining the size of a junction between two or more branches and or the diameter of a second passageway while not required to be positioned within the second passageway. In one embodiment a stent may be expanded so as to support a wall of the left main coronary artery while allowing blood to flow through the side aperture into one of the secondary branches with less likelihood that the placement of the stent will occlude the junction. In certain embodiment the stent including the extension may be coated with a pharmaceutical agent.

Portions of the description below will discuss various medical conditions and how novel methods using catheters and stents may be used to aid in the treatment these medical conditions. Certain methods implement novel catheters and or stents. It is noted that the methods and apparatus disclosed are not limited to the treatment of the medical conditions disclosed but may be used to treat other medical conditions where appropriate. Thus in one embodiment the passageway may be a blood vessel. In one embodiment the passageway comprises an aorta. In one embodiment the passageway may a coronary artery. In other embodiments the passageway may include a portion of two or more coronary arteries.

In other embodiments the passageway includes several blood vessels. For example the passageway may comprise one or more junctions such as shown in below. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that any blood vessel inclusive of any junctions on those vessels such as arteries veins and or capillaries are within the scope of passageway as used herein.

Further while the passageways shown in the exemplary embodiments described below refer to blood vessels these are merely exemplary. Any passageway in a living being that may transport liquids and or gases either alone in combination with each other and or with one or more solids are within the scope of this disclosure. Indeed any passageway within a living being within the scope of this disclosure inclusive but not limited to sinuses orifices cavities and renal vessels.

Looking first at an embodiment of a heart is depicted. The heart is fed by a right coronary artery that branches out and provides blood to a portion of the heart. A left coronary artery is also shown and also branches out and provides blood to a portion of the heart. As can be appreciated a blockage at the beginning or proximal end of the left coronary artery would affect the flow of blood to all points downstream while a blockage at the distal end of the left coronary artery might have little or no discernable effect on the viability of the heart .

Turning to the left coronary artery is shown in an enlarged view that includes the left main artery or main branch that feeds a first branch which as depicted is the left anterior descending artery and a second branch which as depicted is the left circumflex artery .

As depicted in the first branch shows a further enlarged view of the left coronary artery . The main branch forms a junction where it bifurcates into the first branch and the second branch . As can be further appreciated the main branch includes a wall . In order for blood to flow through the left coronary artery the wall forms a tube like shape that preferably is free from blockage.

Unfortunately as shown in a blockage may be formed by for example deposits of fatty tissue on the wall in the junction . In the blockage partially occludes the flow of blood into the second branch . depicts a similar situation except that the blockage partially occludes the first branch .

In the exemplary embodiment shown in flowchart block may be implemented to receive an indication of a complication such as a blockage or aneurysm within a passageway. In one embodiment the indication may comprise an angiogram or any other image depicting or representing the passageway. As used herein the term image is inclusive of any media or output such as for example photographic photolithic and or radio magnetic electric or electro magnetic fields that shows one or more properties of the imaged passageway. In this regard an image as described herein may include electronic data that comprises information regarding a representation of the passageway. For example electronic data may include pixel data. 

There is no requirement that the image be displayed as captured but rather may be presented numerically as certain distances measured within an image. For example in one embodiment a quantitative analysis may be performed on electronic data to provide an output that provides the results of the quantitative analysis. In one embodiment the capturing of an image may include the use of labeled compositions that may be picked up by certain imaging equipment such as graphically represented on a display or x ray film . In one embodiment the image may comprise an angiogram or data derived from an angiogram.

An image capturing device such as an x ray device may be used as part of block to capture an image. For example turning briefly to an illustration of a passageway left coronary artery is provided. Blockage of the coronary artery is omitted for the sake of clarity. In an embodiment a guide wire may be inserted into the left coronary artery in a known manner. In one embodiment the guide wire may be associated with a catheter or other device to dispense an imaging substance into the passageway i.e. the left coronary artery . For example a catheter may be passed over and guided by the guide wire . The catheter or other device may be used to inject one or more radiopaque contrast materials into the passageway i.e. left coronary artery . In one embodiment a pigtail catheter may be used. As depicted in the guide wire may be inserted into the junction and extends into the first branch . As can be appreciated the distance the guide wire extends into the junction may be adjusted depending on the location of the blockage.

An image obtained from block may be used to determine where an occlusion or other complication is located. For example in one embodiment the image is from a first perspective. As used herein one perspective would be different from a second or additional perspective if the orientation of the output is different. As known to those skilled in the art any location including a body s passageways comprises three main axes which are often referred to as the x axis y axis and the z axis. Looking to for example x axis may refer to a length y axis refer may refer to a height and the z axis may refer to the depth. Thus because exemplary axis measures depth location having coordinates x 4 y 4 and z 5 would be coming out from the plane of the FIG. and towards the viewer whereas location having coordinates x4 y4 z5 would be extending away from the viewer. Because of this the distance between and may appear to be larger than the distance and on an image despite the fact that each represent the same distance. The implications of this will be discussed in more detail below.

Returning to the discussion of perspective capturing an image of an object located at point x0 y0 z0 from any of the points and would be from a different perspective because at least two of the coordinates along the x y or z axis would differ. For example if only one of the x y or z axes differs the perspective would be the same and only the zoom ratio would be altered

Reception of an image inclusive of any image data or data derived from the capture may allow a medical professional to determine the location of the complication as well as better determine a remedy. For example based upon the image a specific type or sized tool catheter and or stent may be chosen for diagnosing and or treating the malady. However without knowing the exact orientation of the passageway at the point of complication may result in inefficient and or dangerous complications.

For cylindrical passageways the depth and width are substantially equal and may be interchangeably referenced by the radius of the passageway. As also readily understood by those skilled in the art and reflected in the attached FIGS. most passageways located in a living being will rarely if ever travel a straight line. In fact most passageways twist turn bend flex and or traverse several different directions along the length. Therefore the length of at least a portion of a passageway or device within the passageway may be used to refer to the x axis although it may not be substantially parallel with longitudinal axis shown in . Those skilled in the art further appreciate that minor axes exist at almost an infinite number of locations and may extend away from the x axis and or simultaneously traverse the y axis and the z axis.

Aspects disclosed herein relate to systems and methods to determine orientation of a location along a passageway s length. In certain embodiments a novel apparatus may be positioned into the passageway block . shows one exemplary apparatus being inserted into passageway . Apparatus may be guided for example by guide wire through passageway while in a first compressed configuration and may later be expandable to a second configuration. While in the compressed configuration the outer portion of apparatus may comprise a sheath or covering that assists maneuvering the apparatus through one or more passageways leading to and including passageway . In certain embodiments the outer surface of the apparatus may further comprise one or more biocompatible and or anticoagulant materials. Apparatus may have a length represented by double arrow that is substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the passageway . In certain embodiments information obtained from block and or block which is discussed below may be considered when determining the location to position apparatus within the passageway .

In certain embodiments apparatus may comprise a plurality of markers such as plurality of marks . In one embodiment the plurality of markers are positioned along the length i.e. parallel to double arrow of the apparatus . Depending on the embodiment the plurality of markers may be separated by a predetermined distance. The distance may depend on the intended usage. For example an apparatus intended to be used in an aorta may have markers that are separated by a larger distance than an apparatus that is intended for the renal artery. As used herein the term marker includes any material or composition that is intended to be detectable by an imaging apparatus in a manner to be discernable from a non marker portion of the apparatus such as apparatus .

Upon being positioned at a desired location within passageway apparatus may be expanded to a second position or configuration. In one embodiment apparatus is associated with a guide wire such that pulling an end of the guide wire for example by a medical professional causes the apparatus to expand to the second configuration. shows exemplary apparatus expanded to the second position. As seen at least a portion of apparatus expands away in two substantially opposing directions along a second axis. Specifically in the illustrated embodiment structure extends away from the longitudinal axis see of in a substantially perpendicular manner. Thus structure is substantially parallel with axis shown in . In the illustrative embodiment apparatus is within a cylindrical passageway such that the direction of expansion should be relatively the same regardless of the direction because the diameter of the cylinder should be uniform. However measuring along two or more opposing directions may further assist any determination whether the apparatus or subsequent devices or properly positioned. Regardless in further embodiments structure may be along any major or minor axis that transects the longitudinal axis of .

The expansion of apparatus from the first configuration to the second configuration may depend on a myriad of factors. In one embodiment apparatus may have a known predetermined expansion. The selection of such an apparatus may consider among other factors the type of passageway it will be expanded within and or unique properties of the passageway within the specific living being. In certain embodiments information obtained or derived from block may be utilized when determining to use an apparatus with a predetermined expansion. In another embodiment the apparatus may expand to the second configuration until resisted by a predetermined force. For example apparatus may be configured to keep expanding to a certain extent until it contacts and or exerts a predetermined amount of force the inner perimeter of the passageway . This may be useful for ensuring proper placement accurate measurements of the passageway described below and or ensuring apparatus does not shift to a different location.

While the expansion of apparatus has been described in the context of expanding along a single axis those skilled in the art will understand that apparatus may expand along multiple axis. As described above the expansion of a cylinder will result in the expansion of the entire circumference of the cylinder. Furthermore the length shown as element in of apparatus may increase upon expansion from the first position to the second position. This may be useful in certain embodiments for example where apparatus must pass through smaller passageways before being expanded.

As further seen in upon expansion to the second position apparatus comprises a plurality of markers along at least a portion of the apparatus length. In one embodiment plurality of markers may comprise at least a portion plurality of markers . Depending on the embodiment the plurality of markers may be separated by a predetermined distance. The distance may depend on the intended usage for example as discussed above. Apparatus may further comprise a second plurality of markers along additional axes. For example in the illustrated embodiment structure comprises plurality of markers . The second plurality of markers may also be separated by a predefined distance. In one embodiment the distance between two markers of the second plurality of markers may be different than the distance between two markers of the first plurality of markers . In other embodiments the first plurality of markers are positioned along the width of the passageway and the second plurality of markers are positioned along the depth. This may be advantageous for non cylindrical passageways such as at a location of a turn or twisting passageway. Further it may be advantageous at a junction.

Apparatus may further comprise one or more structures such as structures that may provide structural support for apparatus upon expanded into the second configuration. In certain embodiments one or more of structures may assist in protecting the inner lining or surface of the passageway from any damage caused by apparatus . While the exemplary structures are shown as being located proximate to the outer perimeter of apparatus one or more of the structures may be located further from the perimeter.

Whether or not structures provide structural support other embodiments may use structures as markers either singularly in conjunction with each other or together with other markers such as markers and or . In this regard the plurality of markers along may travel along substantially the same dimensions as structure however appear to be along a straight line due to the perspective of . Looking for example to the plurality of markers are shown to travel along axis in addition to axis . Thus when taken from the perspective shown in the portion of markers on the forefront appear lower on the image than the portion of the markers that are behind axis . Although as well as the other FIGS. of this disclosure show a plurality of markers those skilled in the art will appreciate that a single marker may be used to span across one or more axes.

In one embodiment a second image of at least a portion of the passageway may be received block . The use of second in reference to the image is merely to differentiate block from any image captured and or received at any other process. Those skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure will readily appreciate that the recited first image is not required to occur before the capture of the second image. In this regard a first image as described above is not required in accordance with certain embodiments. The second image may be captured following the expansion of 1000 apparatus to the second position configuration. The image may be configured to capture data regarding at least a portion of the markers within the first and or second plurality of markers . The image received at block may have been captured with different imaging equipment than one or more images obtained at block .

In one embodiment block may be implemented to assist determining the orientation of apparatus within a passageway. show exemplary images that capture or otherwise represent plurality of markers of apparatus . As shown in the plurality of markers comprise markers . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the shape quantity and or configuration of markers may be different among various embodiments. Furthermore there is no requirement that an image pick up every marker within plurality of markers . Further in certain embodiments a first plurality of markers such as plurality of markers may be configured to be detectable by one imaging technique while a second plurality of markers such as plurality of markers shown in may be configured to be detectable using a second imaging technique. This may be advantageous for example if several markers are used on multiple axes.

Looking first to markers are positioned at about the longitudinal axis passageway . The remaining portion of apparatus is omitted for clarity however those skilled in the art will understand that depending on the imaging technique at least a portion of the apparatus may be captured on the image. Of importance in the fact that the markers shown in appear to be relatively the same size and distance apart from each other. Thus such an image would indicate that the length of apparatus is substantially parallel with the longitudinal axis of passageway .

Looking to however shows an image where apparatus is not parallel with the longitudinal axis of passageway . Rather the portion of the apparatus proximate to marker is towards the image capturing device while the portion of the apparatus proximate appears to be further from the image capturing device. This misalignment of apparatus may be observed from one or more observations on an image such as represented in . First in certain images such as that represented in markers closer to the image capture device will appear brighter or larger in an image. For example marker appears larger than the other markers with each successive marker travelling from marker appearing smaller or less bright than the preceding marker thus marker appears to be the smallest. A second observation that may be noticed in the image represented by either alone or concurrently with the first observation is that the distance between the markers appears to decrease along the distance from marker to marker

Likewise the image represented by shows misalignment of the apparatus element shown in in the opposite direction. Specifically the portion of the apparatus proximate to marker is further from the imaging device than the portion of the apparatus proximate to marker . For example marker is smaller or appears less bright than marker and the distance between markers appears to decrease as the distance from marker to marker is traveled. Thus use of apparatus may be used to determine if insertion of a stent or other tool within passageway may be misaligned see. e.g. block of . Apparatus may prevent the misinterpretation of prior art imaging data that may indicate a stent or other object within a passageway is aligned however only appears to be aligned due to parallax. more clearly illustrates the problem that may be caused by parallax.

Further advantages of the disclosed methods and systems may include accurately determining properties of a second passageway that forms a junction with passageway. is a cross sectional perspective view of passageway . As seen in a plurality of markers provided along the longitudinal axis of passageway . In one embodiment the plurality of markers may comprise at least a portion of the plurality of markers shown in . Knowing the distance between the markers for example between and or even between and may assist any determination of the diameter of passageway at the junction with passageway . As discussed above apparent differences between the brightness or size of the markers may indicate that an apparatus or stent is not correctly positioned. Thus in certain embodiments the selection of a stent or other device for positioning within a passageway may be based upon the positions of at least a portion of markers of the apparatus block of . As discussed above while the exemplary plurality of markers are positioned along the longitudinal axis of the exemplary passageways those skilled in the art will understand that the markers may be positioned along any major or minor axis including several axes.

Block may be implemented to insert a stent or medical device in a passageway using the received data. which is similar to and uses some of the same reference numerals as shows the insertion of a catheter in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. After insertion of guide wire a possible next block may be to guide a catheter connected to an angioplasty balloon balloon along the guide wire into the desired position. Once balloon is correctly positioned it may be inflated so as to open up the portion of the left coronary artery that was stenosed by the blockage. To help keep the left main open the balloon includes the stent not shown in mounted on the exterior of the balloon . When the balloon is expanded to open up the passageway the stent is also expanded. Once the passageway is opened the pressure inflating the balloon is removed and the balloon contracts. However the stent remains in position so as to provide support for the wall of the left coronary artery .

It should be noted that the balloon may be compliant or non compliant depending on the intended use. Generally speaking balloons that are non complaint have a fixed amount of expansion and do not effectively increase in diameter in response to increases in internal pressure. In contrast balloons that are compliant do effectively increase in diameter in response to increases in internal pressure. The balloon may also be semi compliant and thus provide some minimal amount of expansion in response to greater pressure. While different levels of compliance may be suitable for different situations a non compliant balloon may be useful to prevent the balloon from expanding in the area where the side aperture is provided.

One concern regarding the use of angioplasty is restenosis. Restenosis or the re narrowing of the arteries affects a percentage of patients receiving angioplasty. While the use of a stent in combination with the angioplasty has significantly reduced the occurrence restenosis is still an issue. To address this potential problem it may be desirable to coat the stent with a pharmaceutical agent. While different pharmaceutical agents work differently in an embodiment the drug coating may be configured to provide an anti restenotic or anti neointimal proliferation effect. In an embodiment the coating may be RAPAMYCIN or SIROLIMUS.

Stent may be one of many types of stents. In one embodiment a stent disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 632 304 issued Dec. 15 2009 and or U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 614 228 filed Nov. 6 2009 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for any and all purposes. In an embodiment the stent may be made of a stainless steel alloy although other materials may be used. It is noted that the type of stent is not crucial thus for example but without limitation a coiled spring design a slotted tube design or mesh design may be used. However one potential issue with the insertion of stents is that under certain known viewing methodologies the stent will not be visible e.g. the stent will be radiolucent .

The present invention has been described in terms of preferred and exemplary embodiments thereof. Numerous other embodiments modifications and variations within the scope and spirit of the appended claims will occur to persons of ordinary skill in the art from a review of this disclosure.

