---

title: Integration and display of symbology and graphical flight planning in a flight management system
abstract: Methods and systems for integration of symbology and flight planning information in a flight management system are disclosed. A method may include: receiving a portion of a flight plan from an auxiliary flight management system; receiving graphical data for the portion of the flight plan from the auxiliary flight management system; integrating the portion of the flight plan received from the auxiliary flight management system into at least one additional portion of the flight plan managed by a primary flight management system to produce an integrated flight plan; and displaying the integrated flight plan to a user, wherein the portion of the flight plan received from the auxiliary flight management system is displayed at least partially based on the graphical data for the portion of the flight plan received from the auxiliary flight management system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652989&OS=09652989&RS=09652989
owner: Rockwell Collins, Inc.
number: 09652989
owner_city: Cedar Rapids
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141229
---
A flight management system FMS is a component of an aircraft s avionics. A primary function of a flight management system is management and execution of a flight plan. Different types of flight management systems may be utilized to carry out different types of operations. For instance a civil flight management system may be certified and utilized for civilian aircrafts while a mission specific flight management system may be designed specifically for carrying out certain missions such as search and rescue military or other tactical operations.

Embodiments of the inventive concepts disclosed herein are directed to a method. The method may include receiving a portion of a flight plan from an auxiliary flight management system receiving graphical data for the portion of the flight plan from the auxiliary flight management system integrating the portion of the flight plan received from the auxiliary flight management system into at least one additional portion of the flight plan managed by a primary flight management system to produce an integrated flight plan and displaying the integrated flight plan to a user wherein the portion of the flight plan received from the auxiliary flight management system is displayed at least partially based on the graphical data for the portion of the flight plan received from the auxiliary flight management system.

In one aspect embodiments of the inventive concepts disclosed herein are directed to an apparatus. The apparatus may include an application programming interface configured to receive a portion of a flight plan and graphical data for the portion of the flight plan from an auxiliary flight management system. The apparatus may also include a processor configured to integrate the portion of the flight plan received from the auxiliary flight management system into at least one additional portion of the flight plan managed by a primary flight management system to produce an integrated flight plan and provide the integrated flight plan for display to a user wherein the portion of the flight plan received from the auxiliary flight management system is displayed at least partially based on the graphical data for the portion of the flight plan received from the auxiliary flight management system.

In a further aspect embodiments of the inventive concepts disclosed herein are directed to a system. The system may include a display an auxiliary flight management system and a primary flight management system in communication with the display and the auxiliary flight management system. The primary flight management system may be configured to receive a portion of a flight plan and graphical data for the portion of the flight plan from the auxiliary flight management system integrate the portion of the flight plan received from the auxiliary flight management system into at least one additional portion of the flight plan managed by the primary flight management system to produce an integrated flight plan and provide the integrated flight plan for display to a user wherein the portion of the flight plan received from the auxiliary flight management system is displayed at least partially based on the graphical data for the portion of the flight plan received from the auxiliary flight management system.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the inventive concepts disclosed and claimed herein. The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of the specification illustrate embodiments of the inventive concepts and together with the general description serve to explain the principles and features of the inventive concepts disclosed herein.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the inventive concepts disclosed herein which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

Referring to an illustration depicting an exemplary interface for presenting a flight plan to a user e.g. a pilot is shown. A flight plan typically includes a sequence of legs that an aircraft is instructed to follow one after another. The legs are typically established utilizing a plurality of leg terminators. A partial listing of such leg terminators through are shown in for illustrative purposes. It is noted that the leg terminators through may include waypoints and as well as other types of navigational points and .

It is also noted that a symbol may be associated with each leg terminator through to provide a visual indicator to the user. For instance in the example depicted in waypoint symbols are associated with waypoints and navigational aid or navaid symbols are associated with points and and an airport symbol is associated with a destination airport . In general a flight management system may access a definition file that contains a library of commonly used symbols. The flight management system may select an appropriate symbol from the definition file and associate the selected symbol with a particular leg terminator based on the specific type of that particular leg terminator.

In certain situations however the symbols provided by the definition file may not be the most informative symbols for certain leg terminators. For example suppose the flight management system is a civil flight management system may be referred to as the Civil FMS certified for civilian aircrafts wherein the Civil FMS has access to a definition file that contains a library of commonly used symbols for civil aviation. Further suppose that an aircraft equipped with such a Civil FMS is directed to participate in a mission that may be considered outside of civil aviation activities such as a search and rescue mission. Relating to the example shown in suppose that the legs leading up to the leg terminator are utilized to direct the aircraft to the starting point of a search area. The aircraft then enters the search area at the leg terminator and exits the search area at the leg terminator . It may be desirable to associate a different symbol with the leg terminator to indicate to the user that the leg terminator is the starting point of the search mission. However the definition file accessible to the Civil FMS may not have a definition for such a symbol.

In some embodiments the Civil FMS may be responsible for the overall flight plan but may delegate certain responsibilities to a mission specific auxiliary third party system. For instance a mission specific auxiliary flight management system may be referred to as the Mission FMS may be responsible for management of a portion of the flight plan within the search area. Relating again to the example shown in the Mission FMS may be responsible for planning the leg between the leg terminator and the leg terminator . The Mission FMS may define a ladder search pattern a square search pattern a circular search pattern or other types of search patterns for this leg and may subsequently insert this portion of the flight plan into the overall flight plan managed by the Civil FMS. It is contemplated that the Mission FMS may further specify a new symbol to be associated with the leg terminator .

It is contemplated that the new symbol shown in is merely exemplary. Symbols indicating a square search pattern a circular search pattern or other types of search patterns may be utilized without departing from the broad scope of the inventive concepts disclosed herein. It is also contemplated that the auxiliary flight management system referenced above is not limited to handling only search and rescue missions. In accordance with some embodiments of the inventive concepts disclosed herein any auxiliary flight management system may be configured to specify symbols without any knowledge of the primary flight management system and the primary flight management system may be instructed by the auxiliary flight management system to display such symbols accordingly.

In some embodiments the instruction from the auxiliary flight management system may be provided in the form of a tag e.g. data field that can be associated with each leg the auxiliary flight management system handles. A tag may include a system identifier e.g. a text string or a binary value that identifies the auxiliary flight management system. The tag may also include a symbol identifier e.g. a text string or a binary value that identifies a specific symbol to be associated with a specific leg. Upon receiving the leg inserted by the auxiliary flight management system the primary flight management system may access a supplemental definition file that contains symbol definitions for the identified auxiliary flight management system and select a particular symbol to be associated with the inserted leg based on the symbol identifier.

It is noted that in this configuration the supplemental definition file is managed separately and independently with respect to the definition file allowing the supplemental definition file to be modified independently with respect to the definition file and vice versa. For example the definition file may be updated or may remain unmodified based on the specific needs of the primary flight management system without affecting the supplemental definition file . The primary flight management system does not need to have any direct knowledge of any third party symbols utilized by any auxiliary flight management system s . These third party symbols may be specified maintained or modified by the auxiliary flight management system s without altering the primary flight management system and its definition file .

It is to be understood that the definition files and may be stored in a text file a binary file a database a memory or various other types of data storage devices accessible to the flight management systems as long as the supplemental definition file can be modified independently with respect to the definition file . It is contemplated that in an event that the supplemental definition file is inaccessible to the primary flight management system or that the primary flight management system is otherwise unable to retrieve a particular symbol from the supplemental definition file the primary flight management system may use a default symbol instead. For instance in the example depicted above if the primary flight management system is unable to obtain the ladder symbol definition from the supplemental definition file a waypoint symbol may be displayed for the leg terminator by default.

It is contemplated that the system depicted above is merely exemplary the specific implementation of the separation of the definition file and the supplemental definition file may vary without departing from the broad scope of the inventive concepts disclosed herein.

It is also contemplated that the integration of the primary flight management system and the auxiliary flight management system is not limited to the integration of symbology as described above graphical user interfaces provided by the primary flight management system and the auxiliary flight management system may also be integrated in accordance with embodiments of the inventive concepts disclosed herein.

Continuing with examples described above wherein the primary flight management system Civil FMS may be responsible for the overall flight plan while the specific planning within the search area may be handled by the auxiliary flight management system Mission FMS . It is contemplated that an integrated user interface may be provided to facilitate the flight planning process utilizing both flight management systems.

Once engaged the user may be presented with one or more additional dialog boxes to interface with the Mission FMS and to facilitate the creation of a specific search pattern. For instance the user may be prompted to specify the type of search pattern desired as well as various other search parameters. It is to be understood that specific techniques for creating search patterns are well studied and may vary without departing from the broad scope of the inventive concepts disclosed herein.

It is contemplated that a search pattern created by the Mission FMS may be integrated inserted into the rest of a flight plan managed by the Civil FMS and jointly presented to the user for visual verification as depicted in . Providing such a visual representation of the search pattern in context with the rest of the flight plan allows the user to visually determine whether sufficient coverage is provided for the intended area and efficiently identify any potential issues.

It is to be understood that while the search pattern includes an expanding square pattern as shown in the types of search patterns are not limited to expanding squares. Ladder search patterns expanding square search patterns expanding circular search patterns or other types of search patterns may be integrated into the overall flight plan in similar manners as described above without departing from the broad scope of the inventive concepts disclosed herein.

It is also to be understood that while the dialog box is shown as the interface for specifying the various search pattern parameters additional and or alternative user interfaces such as an exemplary lateral map shown in may be provided as well. For instance the dialog box and the lateral map may be utilized jointly to provide a visualization of the pattern as it is being defined. For a display system that includes a single display the dialog box and the map may be shown individually. For a display system that includes two or more displays the dialog box and the map may be shown simultaneously providing the user the flexibility to define the parameters using a combination of both text and or graphical input methods. It is to be understood that the lateral map and the user interface depicted herein are merely exemplary. Specific interfaces and dialog boxes may vary without departing from the broad scope of the inventive concepts disclosed herein.

In one embodiment the lateral map may include the display of the search pattern parameters which may correspond to some of the search pattern parameters displayed in the dialog box . If the user chooses to configure a search pattern utilizing the lateral map the user may first select the reference position button and specify a reference position on the lateral map . It is contemplated that the reference position may be received via a touch screen interface a mouse input a turn knob interface as well as various other types of input devices without departing from the broad scope of the inventive concepts disclosed herein.

The user may also select the course button and specify the base position for the course. A marker e.g. a circle may be placed on the lateral map to indicate the specified base position as shown in . The user may then drag a cursor to a second position and the course between the two points can be calculated and displayed in a parameters section accordingly.

It is contemplated that the user may define the entire search pattern utilizing the lateral map . Alternatively and or additionally the user may specify the search parameters and let the Mission FMS generate a search pattern which can then be previewed on the lateral map . It is noted that since large patterns may have several hundred waypoints in them a simplified preview pattern may be displayed in certain situations.

It is also contemplated that providing the abilities to preview a search pattern helps increasing pilot awareness by providing a visual representation of the search pattern before execution which in turn help reducing pilot error and workload in creating such patterns. It is further contemplated that the graphical planning method for creating a search pattern as well as the abilities to compare and cross reference textual entries and their corresponding visual representations may also be appreciated.

It is also noted that the integration of the Civil or the primary FMS and the Mission or the auxiliary FMS may be implemented in a manner that is consistent with the system depicted in . In some embodiments symbols icons and graphical indicators that are specific to the auxiliary flight management system may be provided in the supplemental definition file which is accessible to the primary flight management system . The primary flight management system may also communicate directly with the auxiliary flight management system via an interface e.g. an application programming interface or API . However it is noted that the primary flight management system may not have any direct understanding of the specifics of the search pattern which is the responsibility of the auxiliary flight management system . Furthermore the auxiliary flight management system may be utilized to attend to responsibilities such as providing drawings of the search pattern on the display . Alternatively additionally the auxiliary flight management system may provide data regarding how to draw the search pattern to the primary flight management system without having to explain to the primary flight management system any specifics of the drawing itself. In other words it is not necessary for the primary flight management system to understand the search pattern generated by the auxiliary flight management system . It is noted that if the preview of the search pattern needs to include any symbols icons or indicators that are specific to the auxiliary flight management system such symbols icons or indicators may be provided to the primary flight management system utilizing the supplemental definition file as previously described.

It is contemplated that the interface not only facilitates communications between the primary and the auxiliary flight management systems and but also prohibits unauthorized access to the primary and the auxiliary flight management systems and . Utilizing such an interface in conjunction with supplemental definition file s the primary flight management system does not need to have any direct knowledge of the auxiliary flight management systems . The primary flight management system may be able to function jointly with any auxiliary flight management system as long as the auxiliary flight management system supports the interface utilized by the primary flight management system . It is further contemplated that the auxiliary flight management system may be configured to carry out other types of missions in addition to search and rescue missions without departing from the broad scope of the inventive concepts disclosed herein.

Referring now to a flow diagram depicting an embodiment of a method for providing an integrated user interface is shown. It is contemplated that the method may be utilized when a primary flight management system delegates certain responsibilities to an auxiliary flight management system allowing the auxiliary flight management system to generate at least a portion e.g. one or more legs of an overall flight plan. In such cases the primary flight management system may receive the portion of the flight plan generated by the auxiliary flight management system in a step . In addition the primary flight management system may also receive information associated with the portion of the flight plan from the auxiliary flight management system in a step .

The information associated with the portion of the flight plan generated by the auxiliary flight management system may include graphical data that indicates how to properly display that portion of the flight plan to a user. Accordingly in a step the primary flight management system may access information regarding the portion of the flight plan and generate an integrated representation accordingly. The integrated representation may then be displayed in a step .

For instance in the example previously described in among the listing of flight legs being presented to the user one particular leg starting at the leg terminator may be generated by the auxiliary flight management system. The primary flight management system may receive information associated with this particular leg from the auxiliary flight management system which may also provide instructions e.g. using tags as previously described to the primary flight management system with regards to which particular symbol should be associated with the leg terminator on the display. Upon receiving this information the primary flight management system may follow the instructions provided by the auxiliary flight management system to access a supplemental definition file and select the particular symbol accordingly.

In another example as previously described in suppose that the user is viewing a graphical representation of the flight plan and suppose that one particular portion of the flight plan is generated by the auxiliary flight management system. The primary flight management system may receive information associated with the portion of the flight plan from the auxiliary flight management system which may include instructions for how to graphically represent the portion of the flight plan e.g. by specifying a series of waypoints and how these waypoints are connected . Upon receiving this information the primary flight management system may follow the instructions provided by the auxiliary flight management system and render a graphical representation of the portion of the flight plan along with the rest of the flight plan to the user. It is contemplated that the similar process is applicable to the example depicted in where instructions for how to graphically represent a simplified preview pattern is received from the auxiliary flight management system. Furthermore it is contemplated that the integrated user interface provided utilizing the method may also allow the user to interact with the auxiliary flight management system directly via the integrated graphical user interface as previously described in .

It is to be understood that the present disclosure may be conveniently implemented in forms of a software hardware or firmware package. Such a package may be a computer program product which employs a computer readable storage medium including stored computer code which is used to program a computer to perform the disclosed function and process of the present invention. The computer readable medium may include but is not limited to any type of conventional floppy disk optical disk CD ROM magnetic disk hard disk drive magneto optical disk ROM RAM EPROM EEPROM magnetic or optical card or any other suitable media for storing electronic instructions.

It is to be understood that embodiments of the inventive concepts described in the present disclosure are not limited to any underlying implementing technology. Embodiments of the inventive concepts of the present disclosure may be implemented utilizing any combination of software firmware and hardware technology and by using a variety of technologies without departing from the broad scope of the inventive concepts or without sacrificing all of their material advantages.

It is to be understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an example of exemplary approaches. It is to be understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged while remaining within the broad scope of the inventive concepts disclosed herein. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

It is believed that the inventive concepts disclosed herein and many of their attendant advantages will be understood by the foregoing description and it will be apparent that various changes may be made in the form construction and arrangement of the components thereof without departing from the broad scope of the inventive concepts or without sacrificing all of their material advantages. The form herein before described being merely an explanatory embodiment thereof it is the intention of the following claims to encompass and include such changes.

