---

title: Immersive content to enhance user media experience
abstract: Content corresponding to a literary work, movie, audio presentation, or other media is provided to a computing device associated with a user. Immersive content related to the content may be communicated to a computing device and presented to the user at times when the content is not being consumed. The formatting, communicational modes, apparent source, subject matter, or other aspects of the immersive content may correspond to the preferences or other information provided by the user. In this way, user engagement with a story or other media may be stimulated or enhanced when the user is not actively consuming the primary content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09310982&OS=09310982&RS=09310982
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09310982
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140220
---
Users consume stories or other media content by way of e book readers tablet computers or other respective computing devices. Users often identify with the characters in a story their various challenges and successes and so on. However such user enjoyment may wane when the story content is not being actively consumed. Enhanced user engagement with story and other media content is sought after.

Certain implementations and embodiments will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying figures in which various forms are shown. However various forms may be implemented in many different ways and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Books movies audio books and other media content are consumed by people using e book readers media devices tablet or wearable computers and other respective computing devices. Users often become engaged in a story or other media presentation while that content is being consumed but such engagement and the corresponding enjoyment may diminish when the user returns to other tasks and routine endeavors. Users may also find themselves distracted by various demands and real life events and forget to return to consuming the content. Additionally a user may forget details or circumstances within a story or presentation if the principle content is set aside for an extended period of time.

In one example a user acquires a novel as digital content provided to an e book reader. The user then reads or consumes an initial portion such as the first 25 pages of that content by way of the e book reader. The user then sets the e book reader aside and attends to other responsibilities goes to sleep and so forth. The user may already have a significant interest in or affinity for a particular character in the story relate to particular challenges or situations or be engaged in the content in some other way. However the user s own circumstances may not permit them to return to the novel content for the next few days. As a result the user s enjoyment or immersion in the story may begin to fade.

Toward the foregoing concerns a user interface or other input device may be presented to the user by way of the e book reader a tablet or laptop computer or other suitable device. The user interface may include various selections input boxes or other tools or devices configured to acquire input from the user regarding the novel s content contact information for or communicational modes available to the user or other data. For example the user may indicate likes or dislikes regarding particular characters in the story provide contact information corresponding to the user s involvement in social media specify a cellular phone number or e mail address and so forth. Other kinds of content related or user specific information may also be acquired by way of the user interface.

Such user selections and inputs may then be communicated to a server or other computing system administered by an entity associated with the novel s content. Such an entity may be an author or publisher of the content a vendor or some commercial or other relevant entity. The server may process the user input information and establish a data file for that user. Thus the server is now aware of user contact information user alignment with characters or subject matter within the story time of day or day of the week restrictions or preferences regarding the reception of communications by the user and so on.

In turn the e book reader may communicate information regarding the user s current place within the content or consumption status back to the server. The server may cross reference the user s consumption status with predetermined immersive content . The immersive content may correspond to the story of the content and may be particular to a character or characters within the story germane to their situation where the user left off or correspondent to or derivative of the novel s content in some other way. The server may then provide the immersive content to the e book reader or another device associated with the user. Thus immersive content may include or elaborate on one or more persons places situations events or other aspects of the corresponding content.

For instance immersive content may be sent as a text message to a cellular phone associated with the user wherein the text message appears to be sent by a particular character in the story. The immersive content may address the user directly explain that character s present mindset provide background information that further embellishes the story and so forth. The particular immersive content the apparent character of origin the tone of the message and so forth may be configured in accordance with the preferences provided by way of user input to the user interface.

The immersive content may also solicit advice or other user input regarding a character s course of action or other decision wherein such user input is communicated back to the server. The server may then use this input to select predetermined content of the story that has not yet been provided to the user s e book reader. That content may then be sent to the e book reader without user knowledge or intervention perhaps under the guise of an upgrade or installment which does not alert the user to the particular change or addition being made. In this way a user response to a query or other solicitation may guide the course of the storyline by way of corresponding content installments.

In another example plural users are members of a book club or similar association. A novel serial poem or other literary work is acquired as digital content for consumption by the users by way of their respective computing devices. Each of the users may also provide electronic contact information character preferences and so on with respect to receiving immersive content corresponding to the story of the literary work.

Sometime thereafter each of the computing devices may report a consumption status for the corresponding user to a server or other centralized receiving system. The server may then compare the relative consumption state or progress of each of the users and identify a particular user that is lagging behind the other users within the content. For instance the particular user may be at page 20 line 10 in the content while a leading user is at page 42 line 15 in the content. Other gauging systems or thresholds may also be used.

The server may then send an offer to provide accelerated content to the particular user by way of an associated device. Such accelerated content may be a condensed version or abstract of the content that separates the particular user from the leading user. The accelerated content may include other matter as well. In general the accelerated content is formulated to allow the particular user to catch up with the other members of the book club without having to consume all of the intervening content.

The particular user may communicate an acceptance of the offer wherein the accelerated content is then provided from the server to their e book reader or other computing device. In turn the e book reader may advance a pointer or other mechanism being used to track the consumption status of the particular user within the content in view of the accelerated content that has been provided. In the present example the particular user is now assumed to be at about page 42 line 15 the same location as the leading user as a result of the accelerated content. Other actions or status related operations may also be performed. Respective variations on the foregoing may also be used in accordance with the methods devices and systems described herein.

A computing device is depicted as a tablet computer. Numerous other types of computing devices such as smart phones wearable computers laptop computers desktop computers media devices e book readers in vehicle systems and so on may also be used. The computing device is associated with a user . The computing device includes a presentation module configured to present textual content video or audio content or other kinds of content in accordance with digital content provided to and stored within the computing device . The presentation module may include computer executable program code stored on non transitory storage media electronic circuitry or other constituency. The user device is also configured to communicate signals data or other information to other devices by way of one or more networks . The networks may be defined by or include access to the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN access to cellular networks or other suitable resources.

A server is configured to communicate with the computing device by way of the one or more networks . In one instance the server may be owned or administered by an entity such as a commercial enterprise which offers content such as e books movies video or audio presentations and so on. The server may be associated with other entity types as well. The server includes a content module . The content module may be configured to provide content or immersive content to respective computing devices . The content may comprise text graphics video audio and so forth. For example the content may include an electronic book eBook audiobook video and so forth. The content may present a story which includes one or more aspects.

The story may be fiction or non fiction while the aspects may include characters places scenes occurrences items which are referred to explicitly or implicitly by the story and so forth. The immersive content may comprise text graphics video audio and so forth. The immersive content may include elements or aspects of the content or information about one or more of the aspects of the content. In one implementation the immersive content may include direct quotes clips or excerpts from the content or other information. The content module may include computer executable program code stored on non transitory storage media electronic circuitry or other constituency. Thus the immersive content may be narrative in nature connecting or elaborating on one or more elements or events within the content that have already been read or consumed by the user .

The user is also associated with another computing device depicted as a desktop computer. The computing device includes a social media module configured to provide access to one or more social media websites by way of connection to the network s . The social media module may include executable program code electronic circuitry or other elements or constituency.

One illustrative and non limiting operation is as follows The user accesses the server using the computing device and browses various kinds of content available for purchase and acquisition. For instance the content may include various novels or other literary works respective movies or audio books narrative presentations academic subject matter or other material. The user selects a particular content which is an e book titled The Stormy Night and provides information or data as needed for purchase. Such information may include the name Steve of the user credit card or other payment information electronic addresses for the computing devices and and so on.

The server responds by providing the content for the selected e book to the computing device by way of the network s . The content is received by the computing device and stored in non transitory storage media by operation of the presentation module . The user then initiates presentation of the content by way of the computing device . The user then consumes an initial portion of the content such as the first 10 pages or so. The user then closes the e book on the computing device and returns to other activities.

The computing device communicates the present consumption status or location of the user within the content to the server . In turn the content module of the server accesses the immersive content and finds predefined material corresponding to the consumption status of the user . The server then communicates the selected immersive content to the social media website . In particular the immersive content is addressed to the user Steve and is formatted to appear as being sent from one of the characters in the content .

Two hours later as depicted by the time arrow the user uses the computing device to access the social media website . Therein the user observes an actual social media post from a friend David regarding a recent fishing trip. The user further observes the immersive content which is formatted as a social media post. Specifically the immersive content appears to be posted by Mike a character within the story of the content . Furthermore the immersive content encourages the user Steve to prepare for a fictitious storm that is supposedly moving in his direction.

In this way the immersive content gives the user additional engagement with the content and is germane to the present situation in the story where the user left off. Thus the user enjoys a brief experience related to the content fostering continued excitement about the corresponding story when the user is involved in other activities and cannot consume the content directly.

The illustrative operation described above includes the provision of immersive content that is formatted and communicated through the network s so as to arrive as a social media post. However respective immersive content portions may be provided to the user as text messages to a cellular phone as e mail transmissions as pop up messages that appear while consuming the corresponding content and so on. Furthermore either the content the immersive content or both may include text computer generated images photographs animation sequences video clips audio files or music verbal narration or other forms of communication.

As depicted the server has communicated immersive content to the computing device . For instance the immersive content is related to the content the e book titled The Stormy Night . The immersive content appears as a pop up message on the computing device perhaps while the user is using an application other than the e book reader. Other presentation operations or formats may also be used.

In particular the immersive content refers to fictitious structures damaged by high winds which are germane to the story of the content . Also depicted is a link that appears immediately following the immersive content . Actuating the link may take the user to a website or webpage regarding severe weather a topic corresponding to the immersive content . The website corresponding to the link may be hosted or provided by the server or may be provided by another computing device or a resource accessible by way of the network s . In this way the user may pursue additional information on topics of interest that arise as a result of consuming the content .

Further depicted is an advertisement regarding patio furniture. The advertisement may also include a link to a corresponding website. The advertisement may be received by way of the network s and presented by the computing device . The advertisement may be provided or presented in accordance with one or more of the methods described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 945 745 titled LEVERAGING AD RETARGETING FOR UNIVERSAL EVENT NOTIFICATION as filed on 18 Jul. 2013 and naming Jon Aaron McClintock as sole inventor which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Other suitable methods for providing or presenting the advertisement may also be used. For instance the teachings of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 945 745 may be applied to messages or e mail communications that appear to originate from a character within the content .

A mock advertisement may also appear adjacent to the advertisement . The mock advertisement may be formatted and presented to appear as a real advertisement and may include text images digital renderings audio clips or other material related to or suggestive of particular content that the user is consuming or that is available for acquisition and consumption. In turn a link may be used to access content corresponding to the mock advertisement such as the particular content or other matter that the user may be interested in.

In one example the mock advertisement may be presented on the social media website alongside of the advertisement or other similar material. Other presentation locations or methods may also be used. The user may then view the mock advertisement which includes a graphic image and text regarding Lake Farmington a location within the story of the content . In one instance activation of the link may take the user to a website provided by the server corresponding to the content . In another instance activation of the link may initiate an e book application on the computing device and present that portion of the content corresponding to Lake Farmington . Other operations may also be triggered by way the link .

The mock advertisement or the link or both may be used to further user enjoyment of the content . Alternatively the mock advertisement or link may be used to expose the user to the content or other content for the first time. From one perspective the mock advertisement may be considered a form of immersive content and is used to foster user enjoyment during times when the corresponding primary content is not being consumed. Thus immersive content may be provided having non commercial information or elements and may or may not be formatted or presented so as to suggest a real advertisement.

Block determines a user s consumption status within content . For purposes of a present example the user is consuming the content . The presentation module which may include an e book application tracks the consumption status of the user within the content by way of a pointer or other device. As depicted the user left off at chapter 2 line 15 of the content during their most recent consumption session. Other content consumption tracking or quantification methods may also be used such as number of textual words presented thus far a time index within a video or audio presentation a greatest page number accessed so far and so forth.

Block accesses a server and selects predetermined immersive content in accordance with the consumption status . In the present example the content module of the server accesses the immersive content and searches for a predefined immersive content portion that corresponds to the consumption status . As depicted a particular immersive content corresponds to a consumption status within chapter 2 lines 14 16 which is consistent with the present consumption status of the user . Thus the content module selects and retrieves the immersive content from non transitory storage media.

The immersive content may also be selected in accordance with factors other than or in addition to the consumption status . For instance if the content conveys information or a storyline regarding a specific geographic place that is near to a location of the user then immersive content regarding that place may be selected. In another instance if a significant real world event has recently occurred such as a hurricane then immersive content may be selected that relates similar elements or details. In yet another instance immersive content may be selected based on the present season of the year a near future holiday or observance or in accordance with other points of consideration. Other immersive content selection criteria may also be used.

Block sends the selected immersive content to an electronic address of the user . In the present example the immersive content may be provided to an e mail address of the user and appears as a message from Darla a character of the story of the content . As depicted the immersive content conveys details regarding the storyline of the content where the user left off. Other immersive content may also be used formatted as ideas or private thoughts of the respective characters expressing doubts or posing questions or using other literary techniques or presented in other interesting ways. The user continues to enjoy vignettes and insights into the content when such is not being actively consumed by way of the immersive content .

In another instance a consumption status of the user may be collected in an offline manner and used for various purposes. For example if the user is reading a paperback book the user may place an electronic bookmark at a location within the book where they left off. The electronic bookmark may comprise one or more of the elements described with regard to computing device such as a processor memory and so forth. The bookmark may scan portions of both adjacent pages and send scanned images or corresponding data to the server . Those images or data may be used to identify or infer the particular book the user is reading and where they left off. Such information may then be used to communicate offers for other books e books or other content from the server to a computing device of the user by way of surface mail or in other suitable ways. In another instance the user may enter information regarding their present place within the book by way of user input device.

In yet another instance immersive content may be provided by way of a physical item. For example consumption status communicated to the server may trigger the sending of a letter or other item to the user by surface mail or as part of a shipment or parcel. The letter or shipment which may correspond to merchandise purchased in online commerce may include a token item written passage a handbill a novelty item an artifact or other object of interest corresponding to the story where the user left off at. Other ways of providing immersive content in either physical or electronic ways may also be used.

Block sends immersive content soliciting a selection by a user . For purposes of a present example the server sends immersive content to the computing device so to foster the interest of the user . The immersive content may be formatted for presentation by the presentation module as a pop up message as an e mail or in another suitable manner. As depicted the immersive content relates to the content . In particular the immersive content requests user input in regard to selling or not selling the farm which is an aspect or feature of the story of the content .

A Sell the Farm input device and a Don t Sell input device are included with the immersive content representing mutually exclusive selections that the user may choose. The user may actuate or click on one or the other of the input devices and but not both. Other input devices corresponding to other user choices may also be used. For purposes of this illustration it is assumed that the user activates the Don t Sell input device . As a result a user selection corresponding to the Don t Sell selection is communicated back to the server by way of the networks .

Block selects a future portion of content based on the user selection and sends it to the users computing device . In the present example the content module receives the user selection and uses it to select a predefined selective content that is a portion or a continuation of the content . As depicted the selective content is retrieved from storage and communicated from the server to the computing device .

The selective content is received by the presentation module and used to amend the previously received content . In one instance the selective content is added as a final portion of the content . In another instance the selective content is used to replace a predefined final portion of the content . In this way the content may be modified or not based on whether or not the user responds to the immersive content . That is the original storyline of the content may be left undisturbed if the user does not actuate either of the input devices or . Alternatively the storyline may be modified in accordance with the user selection. In this case the content is changed or amended in accordance with the selective content . Other portions of the content may be amended or altered in accordance with selective content sent in accordance with a user input.

Also depicted is a link that appears immediately following the selective content . Actuating the link may take the user to a website or webpage where additional content may be purchased acquired pre ordered and so forth. As depicted the link relates to pre ordering another literary work in a series including the e book The Stormy Night . The website corresponding to the link may be hosted or provided by the server or may be provided by another computing device or resource accessible by way of the network s .

In another example the selective content may include instructions machine executable code or other information configured to cause an audio system home automation system or other device to perform particular actions or to present certain portions of the content . For example the selective content may include an audio file that includes thunder claps heavy rain high wind or other sounds that may be presented by an output device of the computing device . In another example the selective content may include code that is communicated from the computing device to a home automation system wherein home lighting levels are reduced in accordance with a night time situation being described within the selective content . Other operations may also be triggered or controlled by way of encoding or data included with the selective content .

Three respective computing devices and are depicted as tablet computers. Other types of computing device may also be used. In turn a first user Joe is associated with the computing device a second user Mindy is associated with the computing device and a third user Carol is associated with the computing device . The respective users define book club members .

Each of the computing devices includes a resource or resources such as a respective presentation module which is configured to track a consumption status within the content for each of the corresponding users . Thus three respective consumption statuses are depicted. For instance Joe is presently depicted at chapter 2 line 11 of the content while Mindy and Carol are at chapter 3 line 26 and chapter 3 line 18 respectively. As such the user Mindy has consumed the greatest amount of the content while the user Joe has consumed the least amount of the content .

The server may be configured to recognize that the users are associated as the book club members . The respective computing devices may be further configured to communicate their respective consumption statuses to the server by way of the one or more networks . The server receives the consumptions statuses and compares them determining the user Joe is lagging behind both Mindy and Carol with respect to consuming the content .

The server may then generate an acceleration offer that is communicated to the computing device and presented to the user Joe . In particular the acceleration offer may indicate that the user is behind the other book club members and offer to provide the opportunity to catch up with the other users . The acceleration offer may also include a user input device such as a clickable tool so that the user may communicate their acceptance of the acceleration offer back to the server . For purposes of the present illustration it is assumed that the user Joe clicks on the input device and accepts the acceleration offer .

The server then responds by selecting or generating accelerated content that corresponds to that portion of the content between chapter 2 line 11 and chapter 3 line 26. The accelerated content may include pertinent details of the corresponding story or media content an abbreviated or condensed version of the intervening content an abstract of the intervening content and so on. Text images audio material or other content may be included in the accelerated content . Generally the accelerated content is intended to relate information that is key to the storyline or informational path of the content in a relatively brief and concise manner. In one instance the accelerated content is selected from numerous respective portions of accelerated content that are predefined in accordance with respective portions of the content . Other accelerated content generating or pre designation methods may also be used.

The server then provides the accelerated content to the computing device where it is received and presented to the user by the presentation module . The user Joe may now view or consume the accelerated content so as to gain a general understanding of the content up to the point where the other users and are at or approximately so. In another instance the server may communicate a message to the computing devices and of the users Mindy and Carol requesting that they not reveal the intervening portion of the content to the user Joe .

The use of accelerated content may help a user to continue enjoying a literary work or other media material while staying involved as a member of a group or association. In one instance accelerated content may be provided to a student or students in an academic class to employees undergoing various work related training programs or in accordance with other situations. Furthermore respective acceleration offers may be triggered based on selectable consumption status values an elapsed time since a particular user has consumed particular content and so forth. For instance an acceleration offer may be sent to a user if the server determines that the particular user has not consumed any of a content for more than 2 weeks. Other triggering methodologies may also be used.

The user interface may include or indicate a resource locator corresponding to a website provided by the server . In one instance the user interface is provided or hosted by the content module and is configured to run on the computing device . As depicted the user interface is configured to acquire user input corresponding to the content the e book titled The Stormy Night such that related immersive content may be provided. Other user interfaces specifically corresponding to other content may also be used.

The user interface may include user contact data wherein the user may select or specify one or more modes or avenues of communication for receiving immersive content . In one instance e mail may be selected by way of a selection box and a corresponding electronic address for the user may be provided by way of a input box . By analogous mechanisms one or more social media websites may be selected and a username or other account identifier may be input. In turn a cellular phone number may be input by the user such that immersive content may be provided as text messages. Selections or inputs corresponding to other modes of communication may also be provided in the user contact data .

The user interface may also include contact time data such that particular days of the week times of day or combinations of these may be selected or specified when immersive content may or may not be provided to the user . As depicted the user has provided input indicating that immersive content should not be communicated on weekdays between the hours of 10 PM and 9 AM. Thus quiet hours have been specified by the user . The server may be configured not to send any e mail messages post to social media and so on such that immersive content is provided to the user . In turn an illustrative weekends only selection may also be chosen. Other day or time selections or inputs may also be used.

The user interface may further include user preference data such that particular characters or aspects of the content may be selected ranked or classified in accordance with user taste or affinity. As depicted the user has indicated that the respective characters Mike and Darla are liked that the character Mrs. Hatch is disliked and that the character Mr. Smith is neither liked nor disliked that is Mr. Smith is held in neutral regard by the user .

The user preference data may be used to determine what immersive content is subsequently sent to the computing device or devices of the user the formatting tone apparent source or subject matter of immersive content portions or messages and so on. For example if the user indicates that the character Mike is liked while all other characters are disliked then immersive content may be provided thereafter that appears to be sent by Mike to the user has a positive or collegial tone and so on. Conversely immersive content that appears to be sent by the character Mrs. Hatch may be negative or accusatory in nature and so forth in accordance with the user alignment against Mrs. Hatch . The user preference data may be used in other respective ways as well.

For instance a user may spend a relatively longer period of time viewing a certain passage page or other aspect of the content or may dwell over a certain portion of the content using a pointer or other virtual tool. Particular characters circumstances or other matter within than particular portion of the content may be of special interest to the user . In another instance a forward looking camera of the computing device may detect that the eyes of the user spends extra time viewing particular matter within the content . These and other techniques may be used to derive or infer user preference data as well.

The user interface may also include other input devices output devices or controls such as a done control . The done control may be configured to cause the user selections and inputs to the user interface to be communicated from the computing device to the server . The content module may be configured to perform various operations select or provide immersive content and so on in accordance with the selections and inputs made using the user interface . The selection box the input box the done control or other devices of the user interface may be actuated by way of touch gesturing mouse clicking keyboard entry or other suitable input techniques.

The user interface or a similar user interface may be presented by way of the computing device or another device after a predetermined amount of the corresponding content has been consumed such as indicated by a consumption status . That is the user interface may be presented once the user has consumed sufficient content to form perspectives or dispositions with respect to the characters of a story and so on. Additionally as the user consumes more of the content new characters may be introduced in the story their circumstance may change different challenges may present themselves or be resolved and so on. As a result the user interface may be amended accordingly and presented to the user periodically so that new input and preferences may be acquired for use toward selecting or providing immersive content .

The computing device may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor s or other portions of the computing device to communicate with various other computing devices other user devices the server or other servers various web based resources and so on. The I O interfaces may be configured to operate in accordance with various protocols such as I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a microphone a digital camera user input buttons and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more displays audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. The I O devices may also include respective navigation resources such as without limitation satellite based navigation or positioning such as the global positioning system GPS or the global navigation satellite system GLONASS cellular tower based locating inertial navigation devices or systems radio based navigation one or more navigational gyroscopes and so on. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated within the computing device or they may be externally placed. The I O devices may include various other devices as well.

The computing device may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications with other computing device web based resources servers routers wireless access points network access satellites cellular towers and so forth. The communication interfaces may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including LANs Wireless LANs WANs Wireless WANs and so forth. The computing device may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the computing device . The computing device may also include one or more batteries rechargeable batteries or other energy storage devices such that the computing device may be used in a portable or mobile manner.

The computing device includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more computer readable storage media CRSM . The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data used during the operation of the computing device . The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . Respective OS modules are configured to manage hardware devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors .

Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks and so forth. A user interface module may be configured to provide or present one or more user interfaces and may also provide one or more application programming interfaces. The user interface module may be configured to operate with information encoded as hypertext markup language HTML files extensible markup language XML files or in another suitable format or language. The user interface module may be configured to accept inputs and send outputs using the I O interfaces the communication interfaces or both.

The memory may also store one or more application modules . Non limiting examples of the application modules include a word processing application a spreadsheet application a technical drawing or illustrating application a photo editing application a web browsing application a portable document viewing application and so on. The memory may also include the presentation module or the social media module as respectively described elsewhere herein. The memory may also include one or more other modules . Non limiting examples of the other modules may include cellular communications circuitry a watchdog or other timer a wireless internet transceiver hardware resources for satellite communications or navigation and so forth.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other computing devices or other devices including servers network attached storage apparatus and so forth.

The datastore may store one or more data structures including content . The content may include the specific content or other literary works videos movies audio files and so on. Thus the content within the datastore may include one or more e books various movies or audio narrations or other types of user consumable content or media.

The datastore may also store one or more data structures including immersive content such as the immersive content formatted as a social media post the immersive content formatted as a message and so forth. The mock advertisement or aspects thereof may also be stored with the immersive content as well. The datastore may also store other data . For example the other data may include one or more data structures that may be queried modified amended and so forth. The other data may also include one or more advertisements one or more mock advertisements one or more predetermined portions of accelerated content contact or preferences information for one or more users encryption keys or codes and so forth. Accordingly respective computing devices may be resourced and configured to perform numerous functions as well as to cooperate with one or more other computing devices or apparatus.

The server may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor s or other portions of the server to communicate with various computing devices other servers user devices web based resources and so on. The I O interfaces may be configured to operate in accordance with various protocols such as I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a microphone a camera user input buttons and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more displays audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated within the server or they may be externally placed.

The server may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications with other servers various computing devices web based resources routers wireless access points and so forth. The communication interfaces may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including LANs Wireless LANs WANs Wireless WANs and so forth. The server may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the server .

The server includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more CRSM. The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the server . The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . Respective OS modules are configured to manage hardware devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors .

Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks and so forth. A user interface module may be configured to generate or provide one or more user interfaces such as the user interface or characteristics or variants thereof in accordance with control signals or information input from the content module . The user interface module may also provide one or more application programming interfaces. The user interface module may be configured to operate with information encoded as hypertext markup language HTML files extensible markup language XML files or in another suitable format or language. The user interface module is configured to accept inputs and send outputs using the I O interfaces the communication interfaces or both.

The memory may also store one or more application modules . Non limiting examples of the application modules include a word processing application a data encrypting or decrypting application a data structure generation or management application a web browsing application a portable document generating or viewing application and so on.

The memory may further store a communications module such that content immersive content the user interface user input or selections from the user interface or other information or data may be communicated to and from respective computing devices . In one example the communications module includes executable program code electronic circuitry or other resources used to transmit and receive wireless signals signals by way of wired or optical pathways or in accordance with other techniques. The memory may also store the content module as described elsewhere herein.

The memory may also include one or more other modules . Non limiting examples of the other modules may include cellular communications circuitry a watchdog or other timer a wireless internet receiver secured data handling or communications resources and so forth.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other servers or computing devices network attached storage apparatus and so forth.

The datastore may store content such as the content of the e book titled The Stormy Night . The content may include any suitable number of e books literary works video or audio files and so on that may be selectively provided to respective computing devices . That is a user may access or purchase a given file or work within the content for consumption by way of an associated computing device .

The datastore may also store immersive content such as the immersive content and so on. The various portions of immersive content are related or correspondent to respective portions of the content . For example several portions of the immersive content may be predefined in accordance with different aspects or parts of the content . The immersive content is configured to be selectively provided to computing devices in accordance with various operations or triggering events as described elsewhere herein. The datastore may further store other data . For example the other data may include one or more data structures that may be queried modified amended and so forth.

Block provides content to a computing device . For purposes of a present example the user Steve is using the computing device which includes an e book reader presentation application. The user uses the computing device to access the server and purchases an e book titled The Stormy Night . The corresponding content is thereafter provided from the server to the computing device where it is stored in non transitory storage memory .

Block acquires input from a user of the computing device regarding immersive content preferences. In the present example the server provides the user interface to the computing device sometime after the sending of the content . The user interface includes various selections and devices such that the user may provide data regarding their opinion of characters in the content user contact information days or hours for contacting the user and so on. Such input from the user as gathered through the user interface is then communicated back to the server by way of the network s .

For instance the user may indicate that they prefer to receive e mail messages at a specified electronic address that immersive content should be received only during weekend daytime hours and that they have a particular affinity for the characters Darla and Mike . Other kinds of user preferences or information may also be acquired.

Block provides immersive content to one or more devices associated with the user in accordance with the preferences. In the present example the server may be configured to wait until 2 days have passed since the content was provided to the computing device at which time the server is to provide selected immersive content . The content module then selects immersive content which relates to damage caused by a severe storm that occurs early in the story of the content .

The immersive content is then communicated from the server to the computing device where the presentation module presents it to the user at a time when the related content is not being consumed. In this way the user receives a brief communication intended to promote interest and excitement in the underlying story of the content .

Block acquires a consumption status within the content for the user . In the present example the presentation module determines that the user left off at a particular location within the content during their most recent reading session. For instance the user may have recently covered a portion of the content regarding farm animals that had gone missing during the severe storm. Thus the consumption status may correspond to a page number chapter or line number or other location within the content . The corresponding consumption status is then communicated from the computing device to the server .

Block selects from predetermined immersive content based on the consumption status . In the present example the content module accesses immersive content seeking a predefined portion that corresponds to the consumption status of the user . For instance the content module determines that immersive content which relates to finding some of the missing farm animals correlates to the present consumption status . The content module retrieves the immersive content from the datastore of the server and formats it as a message from Darla a character in the content .

Block provides the selected immersive content to one or more computing devices associated with the user . In the present example the content module causes the immersive content to be sent to an electronic address of the user . Thereafter the computing device retrieves the immersive content as an e mail message apparently sent by Darla and presents the immersive content to the user . The user may thus enjoy the story of the content even while attending to other tasks. Furthermore the immersive content may convey insights and aspects of the story that are not specifically included in the content .

Block provides content to computing devices corresponding to a plurality of associated users . For purposes of a present example the three users Joe Mindy and Carol are associated with three computing devices and respectively. The users are associated as book club members . Each of the users access the server by way of their respective computing devices and acquires the e book content . Thus each of the users may now consume the content as part of a book club project.

Block acquires a consumption status for each of the respective users . In the present example a respective presentation module within each of the computing devices provides a consumption status for the corresponding user . For purposes of illustration the user Joe is at chapter 2 line 11 of the content while the users Mindy and Carol are at chapter 3 line 26 and chapter 3 line 18 respectively. In this way three respective consumption statuses are acquired and communicated to the server by way of the network s .

Block selects one of the users based on the consumption statuses . In the present example the content module of the server compares the respective consumption statuses and determines that the user Joe is lagging behind both of the other users Mindy and Carol . The content module thus selects the user Joe for operations in the next step.

Block provides an offer for accelerated content to the selected user . In the present example the content module generates an acceleration offer proposing to provide accelerated content to the user . The acceleration offer may explain that the user Joe is behind the other users and with respect to consuming the content . The acceleration offer may further explain that the proposed accelerated content would allow the user to catch up with the other users in a quick and convenient manner. The acceleration offer is then communicated from the server to the computing device .

Block acquires a response to the offer from the selected user . In the current example the presentation module presents the acceleration offer to the user Joe who provides input to a control or other device indicating his acceptance of the acceleration offer . The acceptance is then communicated from the computing device back to the server by way of the one or more networks where it is received by the content module .

Block provides accelerated content to one or more devices corresponding to the selected user in accordance with the response. In the present example the content module accesses the content within the datastore and locates subject matter within the content present between the consumption status of the user and that of the user . Specifically the content module identifies matter within the content between chapter 2 line 11 and chapter 3 line 26.

The content module then generates particular accelerated content in accordance with the identified intervening matter. The accelerated content may include details character comments or perspectives or other subject matter determined to be important to the intervening portion of the story The Stormy Night and may be formatted as an abstract or a concise presentation of that subject matter. The accelerated content may be generated or formatted in other suitable ways as well. The content module then causes the accelerated content to be communicated from the server to the computing device where it may be presented by the presentation module .

The user may now understand at least the gist of the story up to a point where the other users and are within the content . In this way the user may continue to enjoy the e book The Stormy Night and participate with the other book club members without being left behind.

Block provides content to a computing device corresponding to a user . For purposes of a present example the user uses the computing device to access the server by way of the network s . The user may then browse various available e books movies audio files or music or other kinds of content available from the server by way of the content module . The user provides input selecting the content an e book. The user may also provide contact information make payment or perform other steps resulting in the communication of the content to the computing device .

Block provides a mock advertisement to one or more devices corresponding to the user . In the present example the content module determines that 3 days have passed since the content was communicated to the computing device surmising that the user has probably consumed at least an initial portion of the corresponding story. The content module then selects the mock advertisement from the datastore . The mock advertisement includes imagery and text regarding Lake Farmington a location that is introduced early within the story of the content .

The content module then communicates the mock advertisement to a computing device where it may be presented to the user while he is performing other computer centric activities. The user is therefore exposed to subject matter related to the story of the content thus fostering ongoing interest and desire to consume more of the underlying story.

Block provides immersive content that includes a link to a website to one or more devices corresponding to the user . In the present example the content module may then select immersive content from the immersive content within the datastore . The immersive content provides information about a severe storm that occurs within the story of the content and also includes a link to a website regarding real world severe weather phenomenon.

The immersive content is then communicated from the server to the computing device of the user where it is presented as a message from a character within the content . The user may then view the immersive content which promotes ongoing interest in the underlying story. The user may then optionally activate the link so as to access the severe weather website if the user so desires.

As described above a story a movie an audio book or other content is provided to a computing device for consumption by a user . Matter related to the content referred to as immersive content may be provided to the same or other computing devices of the user for presentation or consumption possibly at times when the content is not being consumed. For instance a brief e mail message may carry immersive content to the user during working hours when the user is not reading from the primary content . Such immersive content may be formatted as mock advertising social media postings or in other ways may include links to websites or other resources presenting real world information related to the content and so on. User involvement in the story or other subject matter of the content is thus supplemented enhancing the user s overall content consumption experience.

Those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that certain steps or operations illustrated in the figures above can be eliminated or taken in an alternate order. Moreover the methods described above may be implemented as one or more software programs for a computer system and are encoded in a computer readable storage medium as instructions executable on one or more processors.

Embodiments may be provided as a computer program product including a non transitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions in compressed or uncompressed form that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes or methods described herein. The computer readable storage medium can be any one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium and so forth. For example the computer readable storage media may include but is not limited to hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of physical media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Further embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a transitory machine readable signal in compressed or uncompressed form . Examples of machine readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system or machine hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals transferred by one or more networks. For example the transitory machine readable signal may comprise transmission of software by the Internet.

Separate instances of these programs can be executed on or distributed across separate computer systems. Thus although certain steps have been described as being performed by certain devices software programs processes or entities this need not be the case and a variety of alternative implementations will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally those having ordinary skill in the art readily recognize that the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of devices environments and situations. Although the present disclosure is written with respect to specific embodiments and implementations various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

