---

title: Management of access to service in an access point
abstract: System(s) and method(s) are provided to configure access rights to wireless resources and telecommunication service(s) supplied through a set of access points (APs). Access to wireless resources is authorized by access attributes in access control list(s) (ACL(s)) while a profile of service attributes linked to the ACL(s) regulate provision of telecommunication service(s). Access and service attributes can be automatically or dynamically configured, at least in part, in response to changes in data that directly or indirectly affects an operation environment in which the set of APs is deployed. Automatic or dynamic configuration of access or service attributes enable control or coordination of wireless service provided through the set of APs; degree of control or coordination is determined at least in part by enablement or disablement of disparate services for disparate devices at disparate access points at disparate times and with disparate service priority.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509701&OS=09509701&RS=09509701
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09509701
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140828
---
This patent application is a continuation of and claims priority to each of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 934 644 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 856 878 filed Jul. 3 2013 and entitled MANAGEMENT OF ACCESS TO SERVICE IN AN ACCESS POINT which is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 8 510 801 filed Oct. 15 2009 and entitled MANAGEMENT OF ACCESS TO SERVICE IN AN ACCESS POINT. The entirety of the aforementioned patent applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and more particularly to manipulating access rights to wireless resources and telecommunication service s supplied through a set of one or more indoor based or outdoor based access points.

Access to wireless resources and service through a base station is typically dictated by attachment procedures. Such procedures are generally effective in public networks in which access to base stations and wireless resources supplied there from is public or semi public. However for base stations such as indoor base stations intended to provide wireless coverage to a limited number of devices attachment procedures are supplemented with regulation protocols that include various credential based access protocols for example password protected logins are required to gain access to wireless resources and service. Such regulation protocols commonly entail configuration that requires human intervention e.g. an administrator of a set of indoor based base stations establishes credentials for a mobile device that is authorized to consume wireless service through the set of base stations. Such configuration generally demands additional human intervention to implement updates to access allowed to the mobile device. As wireless communications becomes pervasive larger number of devices are utilized in larger and more complex networks of base stations and associated wireless environments. Thus management of access to wireless service based on manual configuration becomes less efficient and substantially unable to adjust to rapidly changing wireless environments with varying degrees of access rights and consumed wireless services.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It may be evident however that the present innovation may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the present disclosure.

As employed in this specification and annexed drawings the terms component system platform interface node coder decoder and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. One or more of such entities are also referred to as functional elements. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface node coder decoder and the like.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment mobile station mobile subscriber station subscriber equipment access terminal terminal handset and similar terminology refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Likewise the terms access point AP base station Node B evolved Node B eNode B home Node B HNB or home access point HAP which include femtocell access point picocell access point Wi Fi base station . . . and the like are utilized interchangeably in the subject application and refer to a wireless network component or apparatus that at least delivers and receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any or any data stream or signaling stream. Sources or recipients of such data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any or any data stream or signaling stream can be at least a set of network components such as but not limited to user equipment customer premises equipment or network servers controllers gateways or management components. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows. It is noted that context in the subject specification generally distinguishes among a base station that provides outdoor wireless coverage and a home access point e.g. femtocell AP that provides indoor wireless coverage explicit distinction between indoor serving AP and outdoor serving base station is made when context may be insufficient to distinguish the utilized terms.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human agents or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

Further yet the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of devices includes one or more devices a set of access points includes K access points with K a natural number greater than or equal to unity a set of attributes spans one or more attributes etc.

As described in greater detail below the subject disclosure provides system s and method s that enable control and configuration access rights to wireless resources and telecommunication service s supplied through a set of access points APs . Access to wireless resources is authorized by access attributes in access control list s ACL s while a profile of service attributes linked to the ACL s regulate provision of telecommunication service s . Access and service attributes can be automatically or dynamically configured at least in part in response to changes in data that directly or indirectly affects an operation environment in which the set of APs is deployed. Automatic or dynamic configuration of access or service attributes enable control or coordination of wireless service provided through the set of APs degree of control or coordination is determined at least in part by enablement or disablement of disparate services for disparate devices at disparate access points at disparate times and with disparate service priority.

While aspects or features of the subject disclosure are illustrated in terms of applicability to femtocells access points such aspects and features are also applicable to and can be exploited in other radio access points such as Wi Fi APs picocell base station microcell base stations or the like which may provide greater radio access capacity.

It is noted that features or aspects described in the subject disclosure can rely at least in part on delivery or reception of directive s indication s request s or the like and information or payload data e.g. content s associated therewith. Directive s can be embodied in multi bit words e.g. P bit words with P a positive integer and coded to specifically convey a request s to a particular functional element e.g. a femtocell AP in order to execute specific operation s . Information or payload data within signaling and request s or indication s conveyed therein can be embodied for example in one or more reserved bits in a packet header a light payload e.g. of the order of 1 byte data packet a predetermined multi bit word conveyed in a control channel a light payload file e.g. a cookie an email communication an instant message or the like. In addition directive s request s indication s or the like as described herein can be delivered in accordance with various protocols. As an example the various protocols can include at least one of file transfer protocol FTP secure shell FTP SFTP FTP over secure socket layer FTPS short message service SMS protocol multimedia messaging service MMS protocol unstructured supplementary service data USSD standard simple network management protocol SNMP lightweight directory access protocol LDAP session initiation protocol SIP Open Mobile Alliance OMA device management DM protocol Technical Report 069 TR 069 protocol also referred to as Customer Premise Equipment CPE Wide Area Network WAN Management Protocol or CWMP or the like.

One or more embodiments of the subject disclosure provide system s and method s that enable control and configuration access rights to wireless resources and telecommunication service s supplied through a set of access points APs . Access to wireless resources is authorized by access attributes in access control list s ACL s while a profile of service attributes linked to the ACL s regulate provision of telecommunication service s . Access and service attributes can be automatically or dynamically configured at least in part in response to changes in data that directly or indirectly affects an operation environment in which the set of APs is deployed. Automatic or dynamic configuration of access or service attributes enable control or coordination of wireless service provided through the set of APs degree of control or coordination is determined at least in part by enablement or disablement of disparate services for disparate devices at disparate access points at disparate times and with disparate service priority.

Aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure are network and radio technology agnostic and can be exploited in substantially any network and through most any or any wireless communication technology. For example Wi Fi wireless fidelity Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX IS 95 Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA or LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all or all aspects of the subject disclosure can include legacy telecommunication technologies.

While various aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure are illustrated through femtocell access point s such aspects and features also can be exploited in other types of indoor based access points e.g. home based access point s enterprise based access point s that provide wireless coverage through substantially any or any disparate telecommunication technologies such as but not limited to Wi Fi or picocell telecommunication. In addition the aspects features or advantages disclosed herein can be exploited in macrocellular base stations.

With respect to the drawings is a block diagram of an example system that enables is a block diagram of an example system that enables control of access and service attributes that regulate access to wireless resources and service in accordance with aspects described herein. Femtocell femto AP can provide wireless service throughout a confined coverage area to a set of devices via wireless links and it is functionally coupled to manager component via interface . In various deployment scenarios femtocell AP can be a mobile base station. Manager component can control access and service attributes that regulate provision of wireless service through femto AP . In an aspect interface can be embodied in at least one of conventional link s e.g. a fiber optic link an Ethernet link a T1 E1 line . . . or reference link s e.g. Gi Gn . . . . Exchange of information such as data or signaling amongst femto AP and manager component can be effected through standard protocols or proprietary protocols. The standard protocols can include file transfer protocol FTP secure shell FTP SFTP FTP over secure socket layer FTPS short message service SMS protocol multimedia messaging service MMS protocol unstructured supplementary service data USSD standard simple network management protocol SNMP lightweight directory access protocol LDAP session initiation protocol SIP Open Mobile Alliance OMA device management DM protocol or the like.

The confined coverage area can include a residential dwelling a business space an entertainment area a worship area an educational facility a wellness area a hospital etc. and access to wireless service is private and controlled in accordance with aspects described herein. However it should be appreciated that wireless service also can be supplied in open or public mode as described herein. To provide wireless service femto AP is linked to a femtocell network platform femtocell gateway node s server s memory ies etc. via backhaul link and through a backhaul network that is part of access network s AN s which accesses the femtocell network platform through link . In an aspect backhaul link can be embodied in one or more wired backbone network pipes such as an optical fiber backbone a twisted pair line a T1 E1 phone line a digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric DSL a coaxial cable or the like. Backhaul link also can include one or more wireless backbone link s e.g. a line of sight LOS or a non LOS wireless link LOS wireless link can include satellite wireless link s . In UMTS based radio technology backhaul link is embodied at least in part in Iuh interface.

Set of devices can comprise one or more devices mobile or otherwise that utilize wireless network resources to telecommunicate voice or data. The number of devices in set that are granted access to wireless service can be substantially greater than a few e.g. tens or hundreds of mobile devices can be included in set . However such a large set of mobile devices generally is not provided with access to wireless service simultaneously with only a subset of devices in set provided connectivity at a specific time. Number of devices supplied wireless service at the specific time can be established based at least in part on at least one of operational radio condition s e.g. capacity of radio coverage or available backhaul resources such as capacity available bandwidth or the like.

Femto AP includes local memory that comprises data that control access to wireless resources and services provided as part of telecommunication through femto AP . Such data includes access control list s and access data storage in the subject specification and annexed drawings access control list s are also referred to as access list s . While illustrated as separate entities it should be appreciated that data storage can include access list s .

Access control list s ACL s enable at least in part regulation of access to wireless service supplied through femto AP and features of supplied wireless service. To at least that end ACL s can comprise a set of access attributes which identify devices that can communicate wirelessly and are authorized to receive telecommunication service through femto AP . An access attribute uniquely identifies a device. In an aspect an access attribute can be one of an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI temporary IMSI TIMSI a mobile subscriber integrated services digital network MSISDN an international mobile equipment identifier IMEI a mobile directory number MDN a mobile identification number MIN a Telecommunications Industry Association TIA electronic serial number ESN or a multi bit identification number like the mobile identity number MEID . It should be appreciated that access attributes can be represented with other token s or code s that uniquely identify a device.

An access control list associated with a femtocell AP can enable regulation of access thereto in the following manner. If a femtocell AP e.g. receives attachment signaling e.g. LAU signaling or RAU signaling in UMTS based radio technology originated by a device e.g. a handset in set the femtocell AP validates an identity of the device as conveyed in the attachment signaling against the access control list e.g. ACL s associated with the femtocell AP. If the identity of the device matches a device identifier in the ACL the attachment procedure associated with received attachment signaling is completed and the femtocell AP allows the device to camp therein and establish call sessions normally. In the alternative if validation against the ACL results in no match amongst the identity of the device and a device identity retained in the ACL the femtocell AP rejects the attachment signaling and the device is allowed only to establish emergency calls.

An owner or lessee of a femtocell AP e.g. femto AP can determine access attributes to be recorded in or removed from an access control list e.g. ACL s associated with the femtocell AP. Recordation in or removal from an ACL can be performed automatically as described hereinafter. In an example scenario management of a hotel that deploys one or more femtocell APs to enable communication for guests in locations where the radio signal for cellular phones is not strong e.g. in the hotel s basement can record identities of hotel guest s mobile devices in access control lists associated with the one or more femtocell APs. In another example scenario administration of a cruise ship that deploys one or more femtocell APs therein can record identities of mobile devices of all passengers in ACLs associated with the one or more femtocell APs. In yet another example scenario administration of an enterprise organization can record identities of devices of its employees in a set of ACLs to grant access to the organization s various femtocell APs associated with such set of ACLs devices linked to general public are not recorded in the set of ACLs and thus excluded from wireless coverage. In a further example scenario management of a transportation company can deploy femtocell APs within a train to provide wireless service to a highly dynamic mix of passengers that board the train to that end management can record identities of mobile devices of passengers in ACLs related to deployed femtocell APs. Such ACLs do not include identities of non passenger s mobile devices that can operate near the train track in adjacent buildings roads etc. thus the femtocell APs deployed in the train do not provide wireless service to those non passenger mobile devices.

Likewise an owner or lessee of a femtocell AP e.g. femto AP can configure e.g. generate populate depopulate access control list e.g. ACL s associated with the femtocell AP in accordance with access attributes determined by a different party. Configuration of ACL s can be performed automatically as described hereinafter. As an example in the foregoing hotel scenario an event e.g. convention or wedding reception can be held in an area of the hotel wherein wireless coverage can be provided to event participants through femtocell APs e.g. the area includes convention meeting rooms in basement of hotel . The hotel can configure ACLs associated with the femtocell APs to include mobile device identifiers of registered event participants wherein registration of participants is managed by organizers of the event convention organizers wedding planner s etc. that are not affiliated with the hotel. Thus registered event participants are automatically granted access to wireless coverage through the femtocell APs access can be allowed through substantially the span of the event e.g. from 2 hours before the start of the event convention wedding reception etc. until 2 hours after the close of the event.

More than one ACL can be retained in local memory however for a single femtocell AP e.g. a single ACL can be active at a time in order to regulate access and provide wireless services. In an aspect femto AP can include two ACLs a first ACL includes at least one of access attributes or service attributes and a second ACL that renders femto AP public e.g. any mobile device near femto AP can attach thereto and receive wireless service. As an example the second ACL can include a public logical variable that when configured to True condition if the ACL is active and attachment signaling is received allows femto AP to proceed with attachment protocol s without discrimination based on device identity. Period s of public access e.g. when the second ACL is active can vary depending at least in part on at least one of the day of the week and the time of day. For example an owner of lessee of femto AP can allow public access to wireless service through the femto AP from 11 00 p on a day to 5 00 a the next day. As a result of allowing public access to wireless service the owner or lessee of femto AP can receive compensation from a network operator that administers telecommunication service through femto AP . Alternatively or additionally the second ACL can be part of a regulatory or operational framework that allows network operator s to configure femto AP for public use in case of emergency such as natural disasters hurricanes fires floods etc. terrorist attacks or the like.

Access data storage can retain service attributes that control logic for provision of service to a device identified in an ACL. Service attributes can be specific to a femtocell access point such as illustrated femto AP thus service attributes can enable location based customization of provided service depending on the deployment location of the femtocell AP. The logic for provision of service can establish at least one of the following features 1 Supplied service s e.g. voice only service data only service and available applications voice and data service and provided applications associated with the service s . In addition radio technology employed to supply service s also can be set. 2 Service priority e.g. ranking of access to radio resources such as radio technology 3G or 4G bandwidth dedicated channels. 3 Access schedule or time constraints such as time of day considerations or expected duration of provided service hotel stay cruise tour lecture or seminar allotted time convention or conference program length or the like. 4 Level of service or access quality of service e.g. quality of service QoS profile such as best effort conversational real time. It should be appreciated that service attributes also can determine other service features.

A configuration of service attributes also referred to as a profile of service attributes or access profile is specific to a mobile device identified in an access control list even though it should be noted that a particular configuration of service attributes can display a one to many relationship with identified devices in an ACL. Accordingly specification of a service attribute profile can customize provision of wireless service through a femtocell AP e.g. . Generation or update of a profile of service attributes can be automated as described herein. In an aspect devices that can access wireless service through a femtocell AP e.g. devices in set can be categorized in accordance with commercial value to a business entity that has a commercial relationship with subscribers linked to respective devices and that operates or manages a set of femtocell APs. A profile of service attributes for a device can be configured based at least in part on device s category so that level of service is higher for higher categories. In a scenario in which a business entity that operates femto AP is a cruise line company and femto AP is deployed within an area of a cruise ship devices linked to Economy class passengers can be supplied a limited amount of data connectivity e.g. low priority best effort QoS devices linked to Business class passengers can be provided a predetermined amount of service units for data and speech e.g. high priority real time connectivity and First class passengers can be supplied highest available connectivity for data and speech such as unlimited service units e.g. minutes MBs for data and voice traffic. It should be appreciated that categorization of devices that can access wireless service via femto AP or any other femtocell AP described herein can be based metrics other than commercial value for instance categorization can be based on demographics longevity of commercial relationship etc. As an illustration a categorization not based on commercial value can distinguish employees from visitors of an enterprise business or factory that exploits femtocell APs such as femto AP to provide wireless service within one of its locations e.g. plant floor administrative offices. Service attributes can be configured to provide visitors with disparate levels of access to telecommunication service through the femtocell APs e.g. femto AP . The level of access can be constrained with respect to level of access afforded to employees and can be determined according to the visitor e.g. a salesperson can receive more constrained access to wireless service than a technician that visits the factory to repair equipment. In another related aspect service attributes that control supplied service also can be configured on category of a device that can access wireless service For example First class passengers can receive unlimited access via a femtocell AP e.g. to all or substantially all services provided locally within the coverage are of the femtocell AP and that do not relay on backhaul delivery at any time Business class passengers can be supplied with selected services such as on demand purchased entertainment music movies etc. from media server s local to the coverage area and be allowed access to local server based multi user online games while Economy class passengers can be supplied access to locally cached news weather information the cruise ship s event planning calendar etc. It should be appreciated the higher categories also can access services provided to lower categories. In yet another related aspect service attributes can determine disparate service priorities for devices in disparate categories or segments For instance in the hotel scenario indicated supra devices of hotel guests first segment can be provided wireless service with higher priority than non guest participants second segment in an event e.g. a convention that takes place at the hotel.

In another aspect time constraints can be considered to balance load associated with provision of service For example a set of devices e.g. devices linked to Economy class passengers in cruise ship can be provided higher wireless resources such as bandwidth in off peak hours than in periods of heavier wireless service utilization. In another related aspect time constraints as conveyed by service attributes can ensure telecommunication service provided through a femtocell AP remains non public As an example devices of guests of a hotel can access femto AP for the duration of their stay in the hotel.

Additionally traffic condition s related to provision of wireless service can be controlled at least in part through dynamic adjustment of one or more profiles of service attributes for instance traffic shaping can be effected through dynamic reconfiguration of service priority of a group of served devices. As an example in times of access congestion manager component can configure service attributes of served high value subscribers e.g. first class passengers in cruise ship so that traffic associated therewith can take precedence over traffic associated with lower value subscribers e.g. Economy class passengers in a cruise ship .

In an aspect a universal predetermined profile of service attributes can be associated with each device identified in an ACL. Universal profile can be suitable for a coverage area in which the set of devices is highly dynamic and changes substantially e.g. the coverage area can be a train cart a subway cart an elevator or the like. In such coverage area handoff from femtocell based wireless coverage to macrocellular coverage or a disparate indoor based coverage is highly likely thus the universal profile can ensure that call sessions are retained without substantive or unnecessary service customization. As an example a universal profile can allow provision of voice only service within 2.5G radio technology with a pre determined allocated bandwidth on a 24 hour service cycle e.g. daily access .

Service attributes retained in access data storage and associated with ACL s can reduce signaling associated with configuration of an access control list e.g. addition or removal of device identifier s . For example service attributes in access data storage can include a set of schedules or a calendar associated with activities social or otherwise that occur in the coverage area of femto AP i On Tuesday nights an owner or lessee of femto AP hosts a poker club for a group of friends or acquaintances. ii On the first Thursday night of every month spouse of the owner or lessee of femto AP hosts reading and discussion session s e.g. Oprah s book review. iii On every other Saturday morning gardening club meets at the house of the owner or lessee the house embodies coverage area of femto AP . iv On Saturday nights relatives visit the house of the owner or lessee for family event s such as dinner. v On Sundays friends or acquaintances of the owner or lessee of femto AP attend sport broadcast sessions at the house of the owner or lessee of femto AP . Schedules i v determine time intervals during which a mobile device e.g. a device in set of a participant in the scheduled activities that enters coverage area of femto AP can be included in ACL s in response to mobile device s attachment attempt that results from entrance into femtocell coverage area. Accordingly the participant s mobile device is automatically provided with access to wireless service through femto AP during the period set by a suitable schedule. Features of the provisioned wireless service can be determined by service attributes in access profiles associated with respective schedules. As conveyed in the subject example access to service is supplied in accordance with the scheduled periods without removal of an identified mobile device from ACL s which reduces signaling associated with deletion of included mobile device identifier s .

To implement at least in part control of access rights to wireless resources and telecommunication service s supplied through femtocell AP or any other femtocell AP described herein manager component can automatically generate access control list s e.g. ACL s and configure access attributes therein e.g. include or exclude a mobile device identifier e.g. IMSI in the generated ACL s . In addition or in the alternative manager component can automatically configure e.g. add remove or modify service attributes associated with available ACL s that can be generated by either manager component or other component s or functional element s . In an aspect of the subject disclosure manager component can automatically e.g. without human intervention configure access attributes or service attributes based at least in part on at least one of reference data update s to reference data or administration rule s . At least a portion of such administration rule s which can be retained in memory element are specific to operation environment in which a femtocell AP e.g. femto AP or any femtocell AP described herein is deployed.

Reference data is data that directly or indirectly affect wireless service provided by one or more femtocell APs e.g. femto AP in the coverage area s associated with the one or more femtocell APs. At least a portion of reference data can comprise data that enables provision of wireless service access to a femtocell AP e.g. femto AP the access data can be retained in memory element and can comprise mobile device identity ies e.g. MSISDN available services or related applications QoS profiles schedule s or calendar s service priorities or the like. At least a portion of reference data can be retained in a remote memory within data storage and at least a portion of the reference data can be produced by source component s which can deliver data to data storage to be retained as reference data. Server s can be specific to the operational environment in which femtocell AP or any femtocell AP described herein is deployed. In addition server s can include database management component that administer at least in part data retained in remote memory . As an example if the operation environment is a hotel server s can control at least one of hotel guest list s schedule of events such as conventions wedding receptions book signing press conferences . . . information related to guest s such as billing records e.g. credit card information accommodation arrangements e.g. room type or preferences breakfast time and content preferred newspaper parking arrangements etc. or the like. As another example if the operation environment is related to transportation server s can control at least one of i ticket registration information such as sales returns changes ii transportation schedules including departure times boarding times arrival times iii location information such as data on arrival departure gate s or platform s iv presence information as mobile devices of travelers are detected e.g. by devices to be in boarding or arrival areas v passenger or traveler information or the like. In yet another example if operation environment is an enterprise location server s can manage at least one of human resources data such as employee listings employee location employee associates employee affiliation within organization employee clearances to specific locations within enterprise employee terms of employment . . . visitor records including visit schedule intended location of visit etc. In an aspect of the subject disclosure the foregoing exemplified data is reference data and can be conveyed or retained in data storage .

Manager component can communicate with remote memory and access e.g. monitor or collect reference data therein through interface in accordance with standardized or proprietary protocols. Remote memory can be part of a dedicated component e.g. such as a database server which can be embodied in a computer a dedicated file server or a communications network application server.

Reference data retained in data storage can be updated based on at least one of an event a time or a location event time and location are specific to operation environment in which a femtocell AP e.g. is deployed. Records and changes thereof associated with event based updated to reference data can be retained in one or more server s . Event based updates to reference data can include check in or check out instances in a hotel and associated a modification to the hotel guest list alteration to roster of employees e.g. inclusion or removal of contractors temporary employee or addition or termination or regular employees . . . of a business and related update to human resources records registration of a visitor to a factory and modification of visitor log initiation or termination of a cruise trip entrance to or exit from a transportation vehicle train maritime vessel subway elevator etc. that includes a femtocell AP admission to participate in a convention and related change to a listing of registered participants or the like. Time based updates to reference data can be dictated by a schedule s associated with aspects of the operation environment As an example a factory shift can determine a time constraint that results in update to a list of active employees and thus alteration of listing of mobile device authorized to access wireless service. As another example commencement and termination time of a convention can result in inclusion and removal respectively of a list of convention participants and mobile devices linked therewith. Location based updates to reference data can include presence information related to mobile devices that ingress and area e.g. board a train or egress an area e.g. disembark the train with wireless coverage supplied through a femtocell AP or location data or fixes communicated by a mobile device that can communicate in the operation environment.

Manager component can monitor reference data or updates thereto and can process such reference data or updates thereto in order to configure automatically e.g. without human intervention at least one of access attributes or a set of service attributes or profile s of service attributes associated with one or more access attributes. It should be appreciated that an processing of reference data results in reference data. The automatic configuration is based at least in part on updated reference data or processed reference data. Extent of monitored reference data can at least in part be defined by administration rule s . In an aspect administration rule s can indicate a set of data types or a data structures e.g. employee record visitor record passenger record presence records . . . to be monitored. The administration rule s also can establish a logical location or address in which data is to be monitored e.g. a URI name or internet protocol IP address of a server such as hotel guest data server a web server that maintains a convention web portal and convention participant data or the like. In addition administration rule s also can dictate manipulation or processing of monitored or collected reference data. For instance the administration rule s can establish an operation to be performed on or amongst one or more fields in a data structure associated with monitored reference data or information related to the data structure. Administration rule s can be retained in memory within memory element memory functionally coupled to manager component or integrated therein.

Manager component also can monitor operation conditions of a femtocell AP e.g. femto AP or any other femtocell AP described herein. The operation conditions can include load conditions e.g. level of traffic congestion rise over thermal . . . of the femtocell AP or regions served thereby. Based on monitored operation conditions manager component can configure at least one of access attribute s or service attribute s to control operation conditions.

Manager component can include a monitor component that tracks updates to reference data. Monitor component also can track operation condition s of one or more femtocell APs. In an aspect to track such updates monitor component can poll data retained in remote memory to detect updates polling can be conducted periodically or in accordance with a polling schedule. Polling period or rate is configurable and can be part of administration rules s . An administrator of manager component wherein the manager is a human agent or a component can configure polling rate. Similarly the polling schedule can be configurable and retained as part of administration rule s . In another aspect monitor component can receive indication s e.g. notification s of update s to reference data the indication s are receive automatically and can be provided by a component e.g. server s that manages or controls data retained in remote memory to receive such notification s monitor component can subscribe to an update notification service provided by the component.

Manager component also can include a distribution component that can process reference data and supply access and service attributes to local memory e.g. in a femtocell access point such as femto AP . In an aspect as part of provision of access attributes distribution component can configure e.g. add remove or edit access attributes in one or more access control list e.g. ACL s in a femtocell AP such configuration can be automatic and based at least in part on administration rule s . Access and service attributes can be part of access data storage and can be supplied in accordance at least in part with administration rule s .

In one or more embodiments e.g. example embodiment displayed in manager component and described functionality thereof can be included within femto AP in manager component which can comprise monitor component and distribution component . Monitor component has substantially the same or the same functionality as monitor component and distribution component has substantially the same or the same functionality as distribution component . Exchange of information e.g. data or signaling amongst monitor component and local memory can be effected through at least one of a bus architecture or internal programming interfaces the bus architecture can include at least one of a system bus a memory bus an address bus or a message bus.

Manager component enables at least in part access control to femtocell AP through configuration e.g. addition deletion modification or delivery of access and service attributes. As described supra such configuration can be automatic and based at least in part on administration rule s and reference data. In addition such configuration can be specific to femto AP Manager component provides different access and service attributes to different femtocell APs at different times to selectively enable or disable different services for different devices at different coverage areas at different times and with different priority all devices in set need not be provided all or substantially all services from all or substantially all femto APs at all or substantially all times. As an example femtocell APs can be deployed in cruise ship and access and service attributes can be configured differently for different segments of devices linked to passenger class with different segments provided location dependent service and level thereof. Devices of first class passengers can be allowed access and provided service throughout the entire cruise ship e.g. femto AP devices of business class passengers can be provided wireless connectivity throughout the ship with exception of upper deck s and state rooms and economy class passengers can be provided wireless connectivity restricted to lower decks. As described supra wireless connectivity of First class passenger can be more comprehensive than that of business class passengers which in turn can have higher level of wireless service than that of economy class passengers.

Manager component can monitor operation conditions of the set of femtocell APs and coordinate service provided through one or more femtocell AP in the set. Such coordination can be automatic e.g. without human intervention and can include changes to access attribute s that identify devices allowed to receive wireless service through a femtocell AP or service attribute s that regulates provision of a specific wireless service. Thus such changes can implement load balancing or service coordination by controlling the APs that supply the specific service s and features thereof.

In an aspect distribution component selectively configures e.g. adds removes or modifies access attributes in access control list s or service attributes in access data storage . Through such selective configuration e.g. provision of different subscriber station identities to access control list s in different femtocell APs access to wireless service can be coordinated or distributed across multiple femto APs and thus load of radio interface or backhaul link s and network can be balanced. Likewise such selective configuration can allow provision of different services through different femtocell access points which can enable restriction of access to wireless service to specific locations or coverage areas or control of provided wireless service.

In example system exchange of information e.g. data or signaling amongst a femtocell AP and centralized manager component can be accomplished through various access network configurations. As illustrated each femtocell AP can be functionally coupled to an access node which can be embodied in a network interface device a gateway node a DLS access multiplexer or the like. The access node can be functionally coupled to an access aggregator node which can be embodied in a broadband remote access server B RAS . Aggregator node is functionally coupled to femtocell gateway node that is operationally connected to manager component and relays data thereto and there from. In addition source component s can convey data to remote memory through a middleware component that enables access to the communication service provider network platform or core network.

An example service scenario that can benefit from centralized management is telecommunication in large scale emergency. In times of large scale emergency such as natural disaster events e.g. hurricane strikes a coastal region that prevent macrocellular telecommunication in affected area it can be desirable and advantageous to automatically grant authorities e.g. emergency responders police national guard firemen access to non public operational femtocell access points deployed in the affected area and that are closed to general public use during the large scale emergency while public communication facilities are impaired. As an illustration such femtocell APs can include those deployed in businesses such as banks or gas stations which do not normally offer public access or privately owned home femtocell APs that do not normally provide public access. Configuring access control lists and access data e.g. service attributes local to each possibly involved non public operational femtocell AP with the identities of all or substantially all mobile devices associated with civil servants in the affected area may not be practical or possible. However configuration of access and service attributes in centralized data and provision of access to the centralized data administered by manager component can be viable thus access can be provided to a significant number of prospective users even though not simultaneously on a single femtocell AP. In addition centralized configuration of service attributes can grant authorities priority access to existing public e.g. open operational femtocell APs. If regular macrocellular telecommunication capability is restored centralized control of access to wireless resources and telecommunication service through femtocell APs can cease and local control of access and services through femtocell APs can resume.

As discussed supra control of access and service is accomplished via access attributes in an access control list and related service attributes. In centralized administration of access and service control centralized administration rule s and centralized access control list s can reside in a single centralized component e.g. remote memory instead of residing locally within each femtocell AP in a set of femtocell APs e.g. and respective local memories . Accordingly to control access attachment signaling e.g. LAU or RAU in UMTS based radio technology received in a femto AP can be relayed to manager component which validate credential s of a mobile device that generates the attachment signaling against centralized ACL . If the mobile device identity is listed in ACL for femto AP manager component conveys a directive to femto AP to complete attachment procedure. After completion of attachment procedure femto AP provides telecommunication service in accordance with service attributes in access data storage . If the received credential s of the mobile device do not match a mobile device identifier in the centralized ACL manager component delivers a directive to femto AP to reject the attachment signaling e.g. a directive to convey LAC reject signal in response to LAU attempt . Manager component also can configure access and service attributes for one or more femtocell APs in the set of femto APs in accordance at least in part with at least one of monitored reference data or centralized administration rule s .

In one or more embodiments e.g. example system the centralized component that retains ACL s and administration rule s for manipulation of access attributes and service attributes can be a local memory within a single femtocell AP such as memory in femto AP . In addition such local memory can be integrated or functionally coupled to a manager component that centrally controls access to wireless resources and telecommunication service through femto APs . Centralized manager component can include monitor component and distribution component which operate respectively in substantially the same or the same manner as monitor component and distribution component . In other embodiments the centralized component that retains ACL s and access data and can be integrated to a centralized manager component can be part of a single component in an access network e.g. access aggregator node or access node . In further embodiments the centralized component can be part of a telecommunication service provider network platform or core network or one or more component s therein.

In an aspect if a device attempts to attach e.g. conveys attachment signaling to a femtocell AP an ACL that can be retained in local memory is checked to determine if the device has at least one of access rights or configured service attributes in UMTS based radio technology attachment signaling can be location area update LAU or routing area update RAU . In case the identity of the device is not recorded in the ACL that is retained in local memory the femtocell AP checks centralized access control list s not shown in retained in remote memory wherein the centralized ACL can be larger than the ACL retained in local memory . If examination of the centralized ACL reveals a match amongst the identity of the device and a recorded device identifier in centralized ACL femtocell AP downloads at least one of access attribute s or service attribute s to local memory and the device is granted access to wireless resources and service in accordance with at least one of the downloaded access attribute s or service attribute s . Subsequent attachment attempts conducted by the device can be processed in accordance with the access and service data that is already cached in local memory .

Distribution component can manage download of at least one of the access attribute s or the service attribute s . In an aspect as part of the download distribution component can receive a request to deliver access and service data associated with an identified device respond to the request via an ACK acknowledge or NACK negative acknowledge signal and deliver access and service data associated with the identified device if the request is acknowledged. In addition or in the alternative to downloading access and service data from remote memory manager component can deliver access and service data to a femtocell AP or data cache therein based at least in part on prediction s of attachment events at a femtocell AP. To at least that end cache component which is part of manager component can exploit historical attachment data or access data e.g. successful attachment for a set of femtocell APs to generate access or attachment intelligence and predict attachment events at one or more femtocell APs in the set. Access or attachment intelligence related to an access point either an indoor based AP femtocell AP Wi Fi AP etc. or outdoor based AP e.g. macrocellular base station refers to substantially any or any information that characterizes a mobile device and conditions of attachment as well as the access point to which attachment is directed or access is intended. Attachment intelligence can comprise for example identities for the mobile device and access point time of attachment or access data that identifies a subscriber linked to the mobile device and service plan utilized by the subscriber location information of the access point e.g. location area code cell identity identification of the access point AP ID customer premise equipment ID etc. or the like. In addition attachment or access intelligence also can comprise information generated through aggregation or analysis of data included in available attachment intelligence such as temporal or spatial patterns of attachment or access for a mobile device or segment of mobile device presence information linked to specific femtocell AP s or the like.

In an aspect cache component can predict attachment events or pattern thereof through inference e.g. reasoning and generation of conclusion based upon a set of metrics arguments or known outcomes in controlled scenarios produced via artificial intelligence AI or machine learning methods. To produce an inference cache component can apply machine learning methods to available access or attachment intelligence which can be retained in remote memory . The artificial intelligence methods or techniques referred to herein typically apply advanced mathematical algorithms e.g. decision trees neural networks regression analysis principal component analysis PCA for feature and pattern extraction cluster analysis genetic algorithm or reinforced learning to a data set. In particular cache component can employ one of numerous methodologies for learning from data and then drawing inferences from the models so constructed. As an example Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models can be employed. General probabilistic graphical models such as Dempster Shafer networks and Bayesian networks like those created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation can also be utilized. In addition linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers like methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies can also be employed. Moreover game theoretic models e.g. game trees game matrices pure and mixed strategies utility algorithms Nash equilibria evolutionary game theory and other approaches that perform data fusion or the like can be exploited.

In an embodiment e.g. example embodiment illustrated in cache component can exploit intelligence component to learn from data and then draw inferences and thus predict attachment events. Intelligent component can exploit the foregoing machine learning methodologies for learning from data which comprises attachment data and can be retained in data storage the methodologies can be retained in memory element within memory . Data storage also can include attachment intelligence as described supra in an aspect of embodiment data mining component can generate the attachment intelligence and record it in data storage . Data mining component can generate the attachment intelligence through data aggregation which can include the following. Generation of statistics of attachment including rejection thereof identification of location of femtocell AP and association thereof with attachment events extraction of patterns of attachment signaling classification and segmentation such as compilation of attachment signaling associated with at least one of a specific period location s of attachment rate of attempts or the like. One or more methods or algorithms for data aggregation can be retained in algorithm storage and can include at least one of the AI methods indicate supra. In another aspect of embodiment data cache can retain a portion of historical attachment data as a training set for learning and evaluating accuracy of attachment predictions originated from various learning models. Cache component can flush data cache periodically or at predetermined intervals.

Access and service data retained in data cache s in local memory can be automatically removed based at least in part on a retention protocol not shown retained in local memory . The retention protocol includes predetermined parameters e.g. an inactivity period priority ranking s . . . that dictate retention or removal of data in a data cache. Removal of local data can be effected to enable access to wireless service by a higher priority device. Femtocell or manager component can exploit the retention protocol and remove the local data. In an aspect manager component can deliver an indication e.g. message s to femtocell to remove data. In another aspect femtocell can remove local data without intervention from manager component for example if a data validity timer expires removal can be effected upon expiration of the data validity timer or after a predetermined latency period subsequent to expiration.

Communication platform comprises electronic components and associated circuitry that enable processing and manipulation e.g. coding decoding deciphering modulation demodulation of signal s received by femto AP and signal s to be transmitted by femto AP received or transmitted signal s are modulated and coded or otherwise processed in accordance with various radio technology protocols e.g. 3GPP UMTS 3GPP LTE . . . . Components or functional elements in communication platform exchange information through a bus information includes data code instructions signaling or the like and the bus can be embodied in at least one of a system bus and address bus a data bus a message bus or a reference link or interface. The electronic components and circuitry can include the set of K receiver s transmitter s and component s therein a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux component a modulator demodulator component a coder decoder and a set of one or more chipsets e.g. multi mode chipset s . Receiver s transmitter s can convert signal from analog to digital and vice versa. In addition receiver s transmitter s can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation such operations typically conducted in various multiplexing schemes. Functionally coupled to receiver s transmitter s is a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux component that enables processing or manipulation of signal s in time and frequency space or domain. Electronic mux demux component can multiplex and demultiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator mod demod component also is a part of communication platform and can modulate and demodulate information according to various modulation techniques such as frequency modulation e.g. frequency shift keying amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer amplitude shift keying ASK phase shift keying PSK and the like. In embodiment mod demod component is functionally coupled to mux demux component via bus . In addition processor s enables at least in part femto AP to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as implementing direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc.

Communication platform also includes a coder decoder that operates on data in accordance with one or more coding decoding schemes suitable for communication at least in part through one or more receivers s transmitter s . When telecommunication through one or more transmission point s not shown associated with femto AP exploits multiple input multiple output MIMO multiple input single output MISO or single input multiple output SIMO operation coder decoder can implement at least one of space time block coding STBC and associated decoding or space frequency block SFBC coding and associated decoding. Coder decoder also can extract information from data streams coded in accordance with spatial multiplexing scheme. To decode received information e.g. data or control coder decoder can effect at least one of computation of log likelihood ratios LLR associated with constellation realization for a specific demodulation maximal ratio combining MRC filtering maximum likelihood ML detection successive interference cancellation SIC detection zero forcing ZF and minimum mean square error estimation MMSE detection or the like. In addition to operate in the manner described herein coder decoder can employ at least in part mux demux component and mod demod component .

In addition communication platform can process signal s originated in a wireless environment within a set of one or more EM radiation frequency bands also referred to herein as frequency bands. The set can comprise radio frequency RF portion s and microwave portion s of the EM spectrum although other spectral regions such as infrared IR also can be included. In an aspect the set of one or more EM radiation frequency bands can include at least one of i all or substantially all licensed EM frequency bands or ii all or substantially all unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication. It is noted that the set is re configurable and can be upgraded to incorporate frequency bands or frequency carriers therein as such bands or carriers become available for telecommunication e.g. auctioned for utilization or authorized for free of charge utilization. In addition communication platform can operate in accordance with a configurable set of radio technologies or communication protocols thereof. As new radio technologies become standardized or available a network operator that provides telecommunication service can introduce such technologies in the set of radio technologies that can be utilized for telecommunication through a femto AP deployed in a confined restricted area.

In embodiment multimode chipset s can enable femto to operate in multiple communication modes through various radio network technologies e.g. second generation 2G third generation 3G fourth generation 4G or deep space satellite based communication in accordance with disparate technical specifications or standard protocols for the radio network technologies or satellite communication. The various radio network technologies being part of the set of radio technologies indicated supra. In an aspect multimode chipset s can enable at least in part communication platform to operate in accordance with standard protocols specific to a telecommunication mode of operation e.g. LTE based communication. In another aspect multimode chipset s can be scheduled to operate concurrently in various modes or within a multitask paradigm in which the multimode chipset s operates in a dedicated mode for a specific time interval.

In addition scanner component can gather data on DL signal strength and quality associated with identified cell or sectors and related networks. To at least that end scanner component can collect DL reference signal s and analyze such signal s to determine DL channel quality or strength. In an aspect signal strength can be determined through received signal strength indicators RSSIs or received signal code power RSCP while quality can be assessed through metrics such as signal to noise ratio SNR signal to noise and interference ratio SNIR or energy per chip over total received power E N . Moreover scanner component also can gather uplink UL data originated at a mobile device e.g. . In an aspect scanner component can decode collected UL data to extract a unique identifier of the mobile device. Data collected by scanner component can be retained in data storage .

Decoding performed by scanner component can be based at least in part on blind decoding of received signal s computation of log likelihood ratios LLR associated with constellation realization for a specific demodulation maximum likelihood ML estimation minimum mean square equalization MMSE zero forcing ZF filtering or maximal ratio combining MRC filtering. To determine code sequences and thus one or more of the foregoing identities or identifiers scanner component can compute cross correlation of decoded signal s and a set of code sequence hypotheses for the various radio technologies included in the set of technologies surveyed by scanner component s . Code sequences can include at least one of a scrambling code a pseudonoise PN sequence a chirp like sequence and so forth. Code sequence hypotheses can be retained in memory element .

In embodiment femto AP includes access manager component that validates credential s e.g. IMSI of a mobile device that attempts attachment with transmission point s not shown linked to femto AP . In an aspect scanner component can extract such credential s through decoding of UL attachment signaling and supply them to access manager component which checks the credential s against access control list s ACL s . If received credential s of the mobile device are matched with an identified mobile number in ACL s attachment procedure e.g. LAU is completed and the mobile device is allowed to camp in femto AP and establish emergency and non emergency calls sessions. Conversely if the received credential s do not match a configured mobile number in ACL s access manager component rejects the attachment signaling e.g. delivers a LAC reject signal in response to LAU attempt and the mobile device is allowed to make emergency calls only.

In embodiment femto AP also includes display interface which can render various indicia associated with functions that control operation of femto AP or reveal operation conditions thereof e.g. available connectivity to backhaul broadband network. In addition display interface can convey information to an end user such as number of currently served mobile devices. Information can be conveyed via visual or aural indicia which can also be employed in connection with messages that convey operational instructions to an end user from a network component such as an interactive voice response IVR server or a customer representative terminal. In an example embodiment of display interface see display component can render prompt s or other content s associated with leasing a mobile device to at least such end display component can convey visual or aural indicia. Various schemes can be employed to render the prompts or other content s such as but no limited to windows based schemes e.g. iconic representation pop up representation or text based representation with scroll down or scroll sideways delivery or static rendering. In addition the prompts or other content s can be organized in various configurations within a rendering area e.g. display screen that can be a part of display component . In an aspect display component can be embodied at least in part in a display element within a monitor such as a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a Liquid Crystal Display LCD monitor a plasma monitor a light emitting diode LED monitor an electrochromic monitor or the like. Display component also can enable communication of aural indicia for example via speaker s .

Display interface also allows entry of data that can enable femto AP to receive external commands e.g. restart operation or configuration information e.g. edit ACL s within femto AP or in administration component . Display interface can process e.g. decode code at least in part received input and convey it as signaling to one or more functional elements component s platform s etc. or memory within femto AP . To mitigate fraudulent transaction s entry of data can be secured through various credential based mechanisms such as password protection biometric protection or the like and associated secured transport protocol s that can include data encryption. In an aspect code instructions that can be executed to implement such mechanisms can be retained within application app. storage . In one or more embodiments e.g. display interface includes data entry component that enables input of information.

Various functional elements and associated circuitry that can embody at least in part data entry component enable data input through one or more gestures e.g. touch speech motion one or more communication protocols. Such functional elements can include a keypad a touch screen a microphone a camera s a bar code reader radio frequency ID RFID reader infrared IR wireless based reader or the like. In addition data entry component also can be functionally coupled to peripheral interface that enables connection to a peripheral device and communication therewith. As an example peripheral interface can allow connection of an external antenna to receive global navigation data e.g. global positioning system GPS data the antenna can reside in an outer location of a confined restricted area in which example femto AP is deployed so the antenna is exposed to open sky. As another example peripheral interface can enable connection to disparate femto AP s . In an aspect peripheral interface can include a set of ports which comprises at least one of parallel ports serial ports Ethernet ports V.35 ports X.21 ports wherein parallel ports can comprise General Purpose Interface Bus GPIB IEEE 1284 while serial ports can include Recommended Standard RS 232 V.11 Universal Serial Bus USB FireWire or IEEE 1394.

Femto AP includes processor s which can be configured to provide or that can provide at least in part functionality to substantially any or any component s platform s interface s node s and so forth within femto AP in accordance with one or more aspects of the described operation of femto AP . Processor s is functionally coupled to each functional element within femto AP and to memory through bus which can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus or one or more reference link s or interface s . In embodiment processor s is illustrated as external to the various functional elements e.g. component s interface s platform s node s of femto AP however in additional or alternative embodiment s processor s can be distributed amongst a plurality of such functional elements. In some embodiment s one or more functional elements that comprise femto AP can reside within memory as one or more sets of code instructions that when executed by processor s implement the various functional elements and described functionality thereof.

Processor s also can supply information to and retrieve information from memory . Such information can enable at least in part operation of and or can provide at least in part functionality to communication platform and at least a portion of functional elements therein manager component and component s therein display interface and functional element s therein as well as other operational components not shown of femto AP . The information can include at least one of code instructions code structure s data structures or the like.

Processor s can execute code instructions stored in memory for example within app. storage or other memory ies functionally coupled to femto AP to provide at least in part the described functionality of femto AP . Such code instructions can include program modules or software or firmware applications that implement various methods described in the subject specification and associated at least in part with functionality or operation of femto AP .

Memory also can retain at least in part in application storage at least one of data structures e.g. objects classes metadata code structure s e.g. modules procedures or instructions or substantially any type of software or firmware application s that processor s can execute to provide at least in part functionality associated with substantially any or any component s platform s interface s or functional element s within femto AP in accordance with aspects described herein. In addition memory can store network or device information e.g. within data storage or credential storage such as encoded pilot signal s e.g. LAC one or more communication protocol s or technical specification s code sequences for scrambling or spreading blind decoding hypotheses semi persistent scheduling parameters frequency offsets macrocell and femtocell identifiers IDs address book s or the like. Moreover memory can retain content s such as multimedia files or subscriber generated data. Furthermore memory can retain e.g. within access data storage security credentials e.g. passwords encryption keys digital certificates biometric keys such as voice recordings iris patterns fingerprints deoxyribonucleic acid DNA profiles hardware identifying tokens or codes such as at least one of an IMSI a temporary international mobile subscriber identity TIMSI packet TIMSI P TIMSI an IMEI an MDN a MIN a TIA ESN or a multi bit identification number such as MEID. It is noted that memory can include affixed or removable elements such as a subscriber identification module SIM card storage a universal integrated circuit card UICC storage or a removable user identity module RUIM . In one or more embodiments at least a portion of memory and content thereof can be external to femto AP and linked thereto via a peripheral interface e.g. .

In view of the example systems described above example methods that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to . For purposes of simplicity of explanation methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example one or more methods disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s or call flow s may represent one or more methods described herein in accordance with the disclosed subject matter when disparate entities enact disparate portions of the one or more methods. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described method in accordance with the subject specification. Further yet two or more of the disclosed methods can be implemented in combination to accomplish one or more features or advantages described herein.

Methods disclosed throughout the subject specification and annexed drawings are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computers for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory. In an aspect one or more processors such as processor s that enact the method s described herein can be employed to execute code instructions retained in a memory or any computer or machine readable medium to implement method s described herein the code instructions provide a computer or machine executable framework to enact the method s described herein.

At act a repository that retains data linked to a set of prospective consumers can be monitored. As described supra monitoring can include at least one of polling the repository periodically with polling rate or at scheduled instances or subscribing to an update service to receive indication s e.g. an update message that changes to the repository have been committed. In an aspect a database manager that administers contents in the repository can provide such service and supply related update messages. In an example scenario the repository can be a database of guest in a hotel travelers in cruise customer in a business space or the like. The subject act can be part of act with at least a portion of the reference data embodied in the data linked to prospective consumers.

At act it is determined if at least a portion of the data retained in the repository is updated. The determination can be based at least in part on the mechanism employed to monitor the repository For instance if an update message is received by the component that implements the monitoring an updated has occurred. Alternatively if the monitoring mechanism is based on polling the repository changes in the repository can be identified for example through changes in a checksum variable. If the outcome of act is negative flow is redirected to act . Conversely if the outcome conveys an update flow is directed to act in which at least one of a set of access control lists or a set of service attributes are configured based at least in part on at least one of the updated portion of the data or the provisioned criteria. In an aspect act can be part of configuration act .

At act a time stamp is generated for the received attachment signaling. The time stamp can be generated at least in part through a clock source in the access point and functionality thereof that enables extraction of a current time e.g. a processor in the access point executes a system call that generates a current time . The subject act can be part of act wherein the rule that is applied can include generating a time stamp for received attachment signaling. At act it is established if the time stamp is within a schedule in the set of provisioned schedules. In the negative case attachment signaling is rejected at act . Conversely in the positive case access to wireless service is granted to a mobile device identified in the attachment signaling the access is granted according at least in part to the schedule. In an aspect granting access includes updating an access control list to include identity ID of the mobile device as conveyed in the attachment signaling for example in UMTS based technology the ID can include IMSI temporary mobile subscriber identity TMSI packet TMSI P TMSI or the like.

At act public access to wireless service is configured for a predetermined period. In an aspect public access can be configured through an access attribute that overrides access control through validation of identity of a mobile device that attempts attachment to the access point. For instance an ALC that regulates access to the access point can include a Public logic flag that if set to true and when attachment signaling is received allows the AP to proceed with attachment procedure s without mobile ID discrimination. At act it is assessed if the predetermined period elapsed. In the affirmative case public access to public service is revoked. In an aspect revocation can be implemented through removal of the Public logic flag.

The owner or lessee of the access point that is configured for public access can received compensation as a result of implementation of example method . Compensation can be provided by a telecommunication carrier that administers wireless service s that is supplied via the access point configured for public access.

At act at least one of entry of a mobile device to the restricted area or exit of the mobile device from the restricted area is detected. Detection can be based at least in part on reference data or updates thereof. For example the reference data can include location information supplied by the mobile device presence information retained in a presence server e.g. server s linked to the management component information associated with access credential s e.g. ticket registration information or the like.

At act access attributes for the mobile device are configured in a set of access control lists linked to a set of access points that provides wireless service to the restricted area. The set of ACLs is associated in a one to one relationship with the set of indoor based APs see e.g. and associated description .

In diagram processor s memory and bus provide at least part of the functionality of manager component and components therein. processor s can exploit bus to exchange data or any other information amongst component s of manager component and memory or elements therein. Processor s also can execute code instructions not shown stored in memory to implement or provide at least part of the described functionality of manager component or components therein. Such code instructions can include program modules or software or firmware applications that implement specific tasks which can be accomplished through one or more of the example methods described in the subject specification and that are associated at least in part with functionality of various example systems e.g. . . . described herein in which manager component can be a part of. In one or more alternative or additional embodiment s processor s can reside within a component of manager component or be distributed amongst a plurality of components of manager component to provide described functionality thereof. Further in some alternative or additional embodiments components that are part of manager component can reside within memory as one or more sets of code instructions that when executed by processor s implement each of such components and described functionality thereof. Manager component also can include I O interface s not shown that enable communication with external components or systems.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification and annexed drawings terms such as store data store data storage database repository and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. In addition memory elements described herein can be affixed removable or a combination thereof.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through code instructions or program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

It should be appreciated that while various aspects features or advantages described herein have been illustrated through femtocell access point s and associated coverage such aspects or features also can be exploited in indoor based access point s that provide wireless coverage through substantially any or any disparate telecommunication technologies such as for example Wi Fi wireless fidelity or picocell telecommunication. In addition aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure also can be exploited in macrocellular base station s . Moreover aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure can be exploited in substantially any wireless telecommunication or radio technology for example Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA or LTE Advanced. Furthermore substantially all aspects of the subject disclosure can include legacy telecommunication technologies.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the subject disclosure. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject disclosure but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

