---

title: Ad hoc wireless networking
abstract: A software architecture providing ad hoc wireless networking capabilities. The software architecture may be compatible with wireless devices, such as UWB devices operating according to the WLP communication protocol. The software architecture may include user mode and kernel mode modules, and may include a multiplexing driver framework to enable system connection to multiple ad hoc networks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374850&OS=09374850&RS=09374850
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09374850
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140321
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 454 filed Feb. 11 2011 entitled Ad Hoc Wireless Networking now U.S. Pat. No. 8 681 655 issued Mar. 25 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 925 146 filed Oct. 26 2007 entitled Ad Hoc Wireless Networking now U.S. Pat. No. 7 911 990 issued Mar. 22 2011. The entirety of these afore mentioned applications are incorporated herein by reference.

Ultra wideband UWB is an emerging wireless technology with potential benefits in the realm of wireless computing. UWB operates over the region from about 3.1 to about 10.6 GHz in the radio frequency RF spectrum. The potentially beneficial characteristics of UWB technology include data transmission at high data throughput speeds within a relatively short range in the wireless medium low power consumption low interference with existing network technologies such as WiFi networks and an ability to connect to multiple networks simultaneously on a same radio.

The above mentioned beneficial characteristics of UWB promise new and useful scenarios for wireless computing. Examples of new wireless computing scenarios include wireless media streaming over short distances sharing digital media across multiple WiMedia Logical Link Control Protocol WLP capable devices the realization of wireless desktops projecting desktops on a WLP enabled projector while simultaneously using WiFi to access the internet connecting to WiFi and WLP networks simultaneously and enhancing robustness and throughput of existing wireless networks by setting up a secondary link with devices in close proximity. Other beneficial scenarios are likely to be discovered as UWB technology becomes more common.

To take advantage of the beneficial characteristics of UWB technology computer systems must be designed to be compatible with the technology. In particular it is desirable to enable networking of wireless UWB devices so that the devices can communicate with other wireless devices over the network. Networked devices communicate with each other according to communication protocols. Therefore a device typically should be compatible with a particular protocol if it is to communicate over a network operating according to that protocol.

The WiMedia Alliance has defined a wireless Logical Link Control layer networking protocol for the UWB radio platform referred to as the WiMedia Logical Link Control Protocol WLP formerly known as WiNet . The WLP standard is modeled after the IEEE 802 Ethernet environment and is shown conceptually in . As a point of comparison on the left side of is an abstract representation of the ISO OSI model for network protocol design in the IEEE 802 Ethernet environment. The network stack includes six layers including Presentation layer Session layer Transport layer Network layer Data Link layer and Physical layer PHY . Data Link Layer is further sub divided into the Logical Link Control LLC sub layer and the Media Access Control MAC sub layer .

Each layer within the stack performs a different function. For example the data link layer encodes and decodes packets into bits and handles errors in the physical layer flow control and frame synchronization. The LLC sub layer controls frame synchronization flow control and error checking. The MAC sub layer controls how a computer on the network gains access to the data and permission to transmit. In particular the MAC sub layer provides a set of rules to determine how to access the transmission medium and transmit data. The physical layer is responsible for physically transmitting and receiving the data.

The network protocol stacks and correspond to wireless clients which may operate according to any wireless protocol such as the WLP environment or any other environment. In particular stack includes wireless layer MAC layer and PHY . Similarly stack includes wireless layer MAC layer and PHY . A wireless protocol such as a WLP protocol as defined by the WiMedia Alliance enables communication between two client devices at the LLC level. Likewise communication is possible at the MAC level using the MAC protocol and at the PHY level using the PHY protocol.

A computer software architecture is disclosed which enables ad hoc wireless networking. Ad hoc networking enables devices to freely and arbitrarily associate themselves in networks even if not part of a larger networking infrastructure. According to one aspect a method and system are provided enabling identification and representation of multiple virtual wireless networks to an operating system. According to an aspect a method and system are provided for securely configuring and connecting to wireless networks. According to another aspect a method and system are provided for discovering wireless networks. Devices may be configured to communicate according to any ad hoc wireless protocol of which WLP is one non limiting example.

According to another aspect a computer software architecture is disclosed which is compatible with the WLP standard for UWB networking. The software architecture includes kernel mode and user mode components and means for communication between the components. Various features of the software architecture enable a system to implement features specific to the WLP protocol such as an ability to connect the system to multiple WLP networks simultaneously over a single physical adapter.

The software architecture comprises a multiplexing driver framework which may enable a computer system to connect to multiple WLP networks over a single physical adapter such as a UWB network interface card. The multiplexing driver framework may operate by enumerating multiple respective interfaces between a same physical adapter and a plurality of upper layer networking stacks. The interfaces may be referred to as virtual ports.

The computer software architecture may comprise a user mode module enabling the system to roam within available WLP networks. The roaming feature may enable continuous connectivity to a WLP network when the roaming system moves outside radio range of one access point of the network while remaining within radio range of another access point of the network. Furthermore the user mode of the computer system architecture may comprise a module communicating with the kernel mode components to perform such functions as deciding which WLP network to connect to out of a plurality of available WLP networks.

The computer system architecture may further comprise a driver for the UWB physical adapter. The driver comprises design features enabling its proper and effective performance in a UWB system implementing the WLP protocol.

Applicants have appreciated that wireless technology such as UWB promises new powerful scenarios in computing. It is desirable to provide a computer system architecture compatible with wireless technologies such as UWB technologies. In some embodiments described below example implementations are shown as systems compatible with the Microsoft Windows operating system available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. However the invention is not limited in this respect as aspects of the invention are capable of implementation in various operating systems.

The various types of components illustrated in are capable of performing different functions. The client devices may implement any wireless protocol such as the WLP protocol and may be the original source or ultimate destination of data traffic conveyed in wireless frames such as WLP frames. The bridges operate to provide bridge services to neighboring client devices. Specifically the bridges forward frames to and from client devices that have requested bridge services. To support mobility such as roaming each client device may request bridge services from more than one bridge.

The bridge may service the neighboring client devices which have explicitly requested bridge services from it. In particular client devices may direct data or frames to a bridge so as to communicate with destination nodes reachable through the bridge. The bridge then takes appropriate action with respect to the frames. Neighbors requesting services from the bridge enable specific multicast addresses and protocols.

Applicants have developed a software architecture enabling ad hoc communication of wireless devices according to wireless protocols such as but not limited to the WLP standard within networks such as that illustrated in . The architecture comprises modules in both the user mode and kernel mode of the operating system of the device on which the software architecture is implemented. The user mode modules comprise a Roaming Service module as well as various plug ins. The Roaming Service module enables the client device to roam within the wireless network while maintaining network connectivity. The various plug ins are configured to enhance a user s experience. The kernel mode modules enable the system hardware to communicate with the user mode modules and the upper layers of the networking stack. The kernel mode modules are configured to enable connection to multiple WLP networks for a single UWB radio.

As mentioned above the WLP standard allows for connection to multiple networks simultaneously on a same radio. Applicants have appreciated that to achieve this functionality it is desirable for the software architecture to allow a single physical adapter to expose multiple networks above it. Enabling a single physical adapter to expose multiple networks circumvents the need to design a computer system with multiple physical adapters to connect to multiple wireless networks such as WLP networks. In one embodiment this may be accomplished by using a multiplexing driver which enumerates multiple networks for a same physical adapter. The kernel mode modules have been designed with this in mind.

The kernel mode comprises various drivers and interfaces enabling the system hardware to communicate with the user mode components and the upper layers of the networking stack. In one embodiment the kernel mode comprises a multiplexing MUX intermediate IM filter driver which may be a WLP MUX IM filter driver or any other type of MUX filter driver. The WLP MUX IM driver may be a network driver interface specification NDIS multiplexing driver or any other appropriate type of driver.

The WLP MUX IM driver performs several functions. It enumerates WLP ports and controls the authentication state of the WLP miniport driver. It filters and directs WLP data packets to the appropriate WLP miniport driver and up to the TCP IP stack . It also acts as a pass through for some data frames between the user mode WLP security module and the miniport driver . In one embodiment it is also configured to control some MAC functionalities such as a 4 way handshake. In some embodiments WLP MUX IM driver can also adjust per packet transmit power levels.

The WLP MUX IM driver framework illustrated in enables a single physical adapter to expose multiple networks above it. To do so WLP MUX IM driver binds to the underlying miniport driver. The WLP MUX IM driver can create 1 N 1 through N virtual miniports for each binding to the miniport driver where N is a dynamic value. In other words multiple virtual miniports can be created or generated for a single miniport driver. N may be set to have a predetermined minimum value and could then be adjusted dynamically as needed to increase in value if more networks are detected or created. Alternatively N may not have a minimum value but rather may be capable of being adjusted dynamically from a value of one to any value. In one embodiment each virtual miniport will have a locally unique network tag and virtual address. The virtual address can be a virtual EUI 48 address or any other appropriate type of address. WLP MUX IM driver may maintain the mapping relationship between any virtual miniports created and the miniport driver to which those one or more virtual miniports are bound.

In one embodiment the WLP MUX IM driver exposes two sets of interfaces. First at the miniport driver upper edge it emulates the IEEE Ethernet 802.3 layer for WLP data packets. Specifically WLP MUX IM driver binds to a miniport driver via an NDIS interface and exposes an Ethernet virtual miniport to upper layer networking stacks such as TCP IP . The upper layer networking stack components see only the Ethernet interface and may enable some or all existing network applications to work seamlessly on top of the WLP medium and to use the WLP medium as they would any other wired or wireless medium.

Second at the intermediate edge WLP MUX IM driver exposes a set of private IOCTL input output control interfaces APIs with which the user mode WLP Medium Specific Module MSM interacts. However the invention is not limited in this respect as other types of APIs may be used and the type of API used may depend on the type of operating system used e.g. Microsoft Windows OS . In operation the multiplexing nature of the WLP MUX IM driver enables the MSM module to enumerate additional WLP miniports or to delete existing miniports.

WLP MUX IM driver demultiplexes incoming data traffic and conversely will multiplex any outgoing data traffic over the miniport driver. As an example on the send path data sent from the system to an external system the virtual miniport created by WLP MUX IM driver receives the outgoing data packet from an upper layer network stack such as TCP IP . Because WLP MUX IM driver maintains the mapping between the miniport driver and virtual miniports it can determine which miniport driver any given virtual miniport is associated with. Then WLP MUX IM driver adds a WLP frame header which comprises information regarding the network on the outgoing packet and automatically forwards the packet to the appropriate underlying miniport driver.

Similarly on the receive path data sent to the system from an external system the miniport driver receives an incoming data packet from the underlying hardware such as UWB radio controller . WLP MUX IM driver examines the WLP frame header of the packet and extracts the network tag and virtual EUI 48 address describing the path of the packet and the packet destination. WLP MUX IM driver then can uniquely identify the virtual miniport over which to deliver the incoming packet.

As mentioned the kernel mode comprises a miniport driver . The miniport driver exposes a miniport upper edge the UWB MAC upper edge and provides a method for accessing the WLP firmware. It exposes predefined object identifications OIDs with which WLP MUX IM driver interacts. An example specification of the predefined OIDs is included at the end of this document. However the invention is not limited to the OIDs explicitly described as other OIDs could be used. The miniport driver communicates with WLP hardware via a WLP or host controller interface . The miniport driver is further configured to communicate with a UWB radio controller driver URCD via a UWB Radio Controller interface to synchronize beacon information. The radio controller driver communicates with hardware such as a UWB radio controller via a wireless host controller interface .

The software architecture illustrated in is also configured to enable WLP UWB capable devices to integrate with and operate seamlessly with a networking stack such as a Microsoft Windows networking stack alongside wireless over UWB WUSB devices. Accordingly the kernel mode further comprises a wireless host controller interface miniport driver configured to communicate with the UWB radio controller driver . The wireless host controller interface miniport driver also communicates directly with hardware such as wireless USB as shown. The kernel mode may further comprise a USB port driver to enable proper operation of the system if a USB port is provided.

Various alterations and modifications to the architecture shown in are possible. For example in one alternative embodiment the functionality of the WLP MUX IM driver is integrated with the miniport driver . In an alternative embodiment the WLP MUX IM driver is split into a Bus Driver and a Lightweight Filter Driver. However these are merely examples as other alternatives are possible.

In one embodiment the user mode of architecture comprises a Roaming Service module . Roaming Service module comprises Auto Configuration module ACM WLP Medium Specific Module MSM and WLP Security Module .

The Roaming Service module may be provided to enable the devices connected to a wireless network to be mobile. For instance referring again to the client devices may be mobile devices such as laptop computers. When the devices move about or roam they may cease to be in radio range of the wireless network access point through which they were originally connected to the network such as bridge . The Roaming Service module manages connectivity and roaming within the available WLP networks.

ACM may be responsible for various tasks. In one embodiment it starts and stops WLP components manages profiles and detects and handles the arrival to and removal from the system of a WLP network interface card NIC . It may also associate the appropriate MSM module with a NIC and initiate discovery of available WLP networks and devices. It may select the WLP network to which to connect based on user preferences or default settings and connect and disconnect a WLP network and a device. It may further configure WLP parameters for a selected network and examine the connections to a network when the preference settings change. It may further provide management application programming interfaces APIs and notifications for upper layer applications. These are examples. Also these functions need not be provided in a single module and may be distributed among multiple modules.

The MSM module controls the interaction between the ACM and WLP MUX IM driver and may be configured to enable the ACM to discover and connect to WLP networks.

The security module may control all aspects of WLP security and configuration. In particular it configures WLP ultra wideband hardware with security settings specified in a WLP profile. It then formulates transmits and receives WLP configuration packets and manages authorization of WLP ports. The security module may implement any protocol as the present invention is not limited to using any specific protocol. In one embodiment the security module implements a Simple Config protocol which is a protocol developed by Microsoft Corporation see e.g. http www.microsoft.com whdc Rally WCN Netspec.mspx . However any method of association may be used to configure a WLP network.

ACM comprises numerous sub components which enable it to perform its various tasks. One sub component within ACM is Auto Configuration Service Control component . Service control component may perform one or more of the following tasks. When a WLP adapter hardware device arrives or the service starts service control may load the corresponding WLP MSM and may create an instance of the auto connection engine for each WLP adapter currently plugged into the machine. When a WLP adapter is removed or the service stops service control may unload the WLP MSM and delete the instance of the auto connection engine. Service control may provide interfaces and private APIs such as through API layer to other system components. Similarly service control may provide public APIs to third party applications. Service control may also interact with a user interface UI if desired and perform functions such as sending notifications to a user and receiving user input.

Additional functionality may be achieved by incorporating a WLP scripting module into the system. The scripting module provides users with a command line interface for WLP setup management and configuration tasks. It may access ACM via client libraries module and by way of local remote procedure call LRPC module . Similarly Function Discovery module interacts with a PSD plugin to enable discovery of and association with services of the WLP media. Like scripting module access for PSD plugin to service control may be through the client libraries module by way of LRPC module .

Furthermore service control is configured to pass instructions to a profile user data manager for creating updating deleting and querying profiles. The data manager creates and updates profiles deletes profiles queries profiles queries and manipulates preferred lists and manages user data for a profile. Profiles may be stored in the profile storage . User data may be stored in a separate user data module . The profiles and user data may include unique names for identification an indication of whether the profile is an automatic connection or manual connection profile the source of the profile information relating to whether the setting is global or interface specific user privileges and security credentials. The type of information stored in the profile storage and user data module is not limiting.

Moreover service control may pass instructions to MSM via a MSM interface layer . In this manner service control may get interface status data. It may also set and query user configurable parameters. It may also perform discovery connection and disconnect functions.

ACM further comprises an Auto Connection Engine . The Auto Connection Engine may perform various tasks such as initiating the scan discovery of WLP devices and networks. Auto Connection Engine may collect lists of available devices and networks and select which network to connect to based on profiles or manual user selection. Auto Connection Engine may connect and disconnect from a network and may maintain state machines for auto connection.

ACM further comprises a WLP interface manager . The interface manager is configured to associate the WLP MSM to a WLP interface. It also sets and queries user configurable parameters for interfaces.

ACM also comprises notification handler which wraps and dispatches notifications received from MSM service control manager and Windows Management Instrumentation WMI . The WMI may perform various functions such as providing notifications for specific events including device arrival removal although the invention is not limited in this respect see e.g. 

The system architecture comprises various kernel mode modules with the driver architecture being similar to that shown in . The kernel mode modules communicate with the user mode modules via WLP MUX IM driver which operates as previously described in connection with . WLP MUX IM driver binds to the underlying miniport driver and creates a virtual miniport instance . Thus there may be multiple WLP virtual miniport instances indicated by the three dots . Each virtual miniport instance corresponds to an exposed virtual miniport to which the upper layers such as TCP IP can bind. WLP MUX IM driver communicates with an optional layer 2 bridge and TCP IP stack using NDIS module . WLP miniport API provides an interface between WLP MUX IM driver and miniport driver . Similar to miniport driver in the miniport driver can communicate directly with hardware but is also configured to communicate with UWB radio controller driver .

Similar to the architecture shown in the architecture of enables WLP UWB capable devices to integrate with and operate seamlessly with a networking stack such as a networking stack provided by the Microsoft Windows OS or another OS. alongside wireless over UWB WUSB devices. Accordingly the kernel mode of architecture further comprises a wireless host controller interface miniport driver configured to communicate with the UWB radio controller driver . The wireless host controller interface miniport driver also communicates directly with hardware such as radio hardware . The kernel mode may further comprise a USB port driver to enable proper operation of the system if a USB port is provided. Client driver software may also be provided if desired.

As shown architecture comprises Roaming Service module which in turn comprises Auto Configuration Service module WLP MSM and security module . These components act similarly to those described previously with respect to and are not discussed in detail further.

In addition to the components previously described in the architecture may comprise a second security provider module . Various methods may be used to secure connections between devices implementing the system architecture and other WLP devices. As previously mentioned a Simple Config protocol is one instance of a security implementation. However other mechanisms can be used to configure WLP configuration and security information. Methods not utilizing the Simple Config mechanism may implement an additional security provider such as security provider module . The security provider module may be installed on the machine implementing architecture to provide compatibility with other WLP devices implementing the same instance of a security provider.

The illustrative architecture also comprises several plugins providing additional functionality to the system. The user interaction with the system may occur via three main components shown as part of the WLP user interface UI . The WLP Media manager is a plugin that enables the View Available Network user interface to display WLP networks to the user. It also enables users to connect to and disconnect from WLP networks. Secondly the WLP Profile UI enables a user to observe and manually change the WLP profile settings such as security mode. Thirdly the WLP Preferred List UI enables a user to order the re order of WLP profiles and to create new profiles or delete existing profiles.

As previously described in connection with the ACM creates and stores profiles. The profile storage is similar to profile storage in and functions to store user profiles which the user mode components can use in choosing which WLP networks to connect to. The profile storage may contain profiles statistical data and settings for WLP networks. The data may be stored in extensible markup language XML format or any appropriate format as the invention is not limited to any particular format.

A layer 2 service may also be provided as part of the architecture. The layer 2 service provides a set of APIs that can be used in a generic way to access any layer 2 wireless device. A layer 2 wireless device is any device which transmits data corresponding to layer 2 of the standard OSI networking model see . The layer 2 service may be used to unify control of layer 2 wireless devices into a single set of APIs which can be controlled by the UI Function Discovery or Scripting .

A WLP scripting module may also be provided to enhance user interaction. The scripting module provides a user with a command line interface for WLP setup management and configuration tasks.

A networking diagnostic framework NDF may also be provided as part of the software architecture. It comprises WLP Auto Configuration Helper Class module which interacts with the WLP Auto Configuration module to perform troubleshooting and diagnostics related to WLP connectivity. Similarly the WLP Security Helper Class module is provided to interact with the WLP Security module to perform troubleshooting and diagnosis of WLP security issues.

The WCNSvc module provides a common discovery and association framework for various media types and transports. Any new transport of media type can interact via its own plugin. The WLP provider module is a plugin for use with the Microsoft Windows Connect Now service. It enables WLP client functionalities necessary to configure a WLP network. It may operate to solicit or confirm information from the user regarding the credentials for enrolling in a WLP network or for an external device to enroll in a local network.

The PSD plugin interacts with the Function Discovery module to enable discovery of and association with services of the WLP media. It can interact with the WLP Auto Configuration Service module for discovery and scanning association and connection operations via the layer 2 service APIs.

The user mode also comprises NDIS co installer . NDIS co installer enables WLP Auto Configuration Service module when a WLP UWB NIC is installed in the system. If no WLP radio is present the Configuration Service module is not started.

Various aspects of some embodiments the invention will be further understood by the description below.

The WLP stack initialization may be completed as follows. The operating system OS loads the kernel mode components. The URC driver enumerates the WLP miniport driver which in turn results in the initialization of the WLP MUX IM driver . The WLP MUX IM driver creates a handle and binds to the miniport driver. When the WLP miniport driver s DriverEntry routine is called by the Plug and Play PnP manager it calls NDIS to register and associate itself with NDIS.

PnP then calls NDIS s AddDevice routine as a result of which NDIS creates a Functional Device Object FDO for the NIC and attaches the FDO to the device stack for the NIC. NDIS calls the WLP miniport driver to initialize its miniport edge.

When the user mode services are loaded by the Service controller independently of the kernel mode components it will also load and initialize the WLP Auto Configuration service . The WLP Auto Configuration service initiates its state machines and in turn loads and initializes the MSM and Security module . The MSM module opens a handle to the WLP MUX IM driver . The WLP Auto Configuration service enumerates WLP devices and requests MSM to perform initialization operations for each instance.

MSM asynchronously issues a discovery request to the WLP MUX IM Driver to perform a discovery operation. The WLP MUX IM driver determines the list of channels to scan for discovery and switches to each channel for a total of n channels in turn for discovery. The WLP MUX IM Driver receives a list of beaconing WLP devices on each channel from the URC via the miniport driver .

In each channel the WLP MUX IM Driver exchanges D1 D2 discovery frames with all the beaconing devices. The WLP MUX IM Driver sends the D1 frames via the miniport driver and also accumulates responses D2 frames to the WLP discovery request via the miniport driver .

Once discovery is complete WLP MUX IM Driver compares the discovery result against the previously saved discovery results. If there is no change the WLP MUX IM Driver completes the MSM discovery request with a no change flag. Otherwise it returns the new discovery result and completes the MSM discovery request with a change flag. MSM forms a list of visible network names and configuration parameters and indicates discovery complete notification to Auto Configuration Service module .

Discovery of a special function device may be initiated from within an application s Setup or via the Network Explorer UI. The common entry path for discovering layer 2 devices will be through the Layer 2 API interface. As such the application would not be aware of what networking technologies are available nor would it be aware of any specific association methods.

The sequence of requests can be seen in . The application which is trying to discover devices queries the Function Discovery module for a specific class of devices or services . The Function Discovery module may in turn call the Proximity Service Discovery PSD plugin to query for layer 2 devices. The PSD plugin will relay the query to the WLP Auto Configuration Service module via the Layer 2 Service.

To detect discovering and discoverable devices WLP Auto Configuration Service module may put the WLP service in discoverable mode and respond to discovery requests from other devices as well. After WLP Auto Configuration completes the discovery process it will send the list of discovered and discovering devices back up the call stack all the way up to the Function Discovery module .

This list of devices is parsed and customized by the Function Discovery module for the application depending on any specified filter and returned to the application. The application or user then chooses the device to connect to and calls the Query object s association interface. This call is relayed to the PSD plugin which results in a call to the WLP Auto Configuration s Connect API.

WLP Auto Configuration Service module initiates the WLP association and uses Simple Config to configure the device. The WLP Security module communicates with the WCN via the WLP WCN provider for the Simple Config protocol.

Once the layer 2 connection is setup the Function Discovery PSD plugin creates an entry in the PNP X database for the new device. Once the entry is created in the PNP X database UPnP discovers the device and proceeds to discover and install the device.

In the meantime the application has registered for PnP notifications and gets notified once the device has been installed.

The first time a system connects to a WLP network the following steps may be taken. If the application wants to discover and connect to a wireless network it can use the Layer 2 Service APIs directly to discover and connect to the WLP network. The application calls the Layer 2 Service APIs to query for available networks. The Layer 2 Service queries the WLP Auto Configuration service which returns a list of discoverable networks.

The application then picks a network to connect to and issues a connect request to the Layer 2 Service APIs which in turn pass the request on to WLP Auto Configuration Service module . WLP Auto Configuration Service module proceeds to setup the connection to the WLP network. If the network is secure then the WLP Security Module will handle the SimpleConfig with the help of the WCN WLP plugin to configure the network.

Once the network is successfully configured the network profile is saved by Auto Configuration Service module for future connections.

As has been discussed the WLP standard enables connection to multiple WLP networks simultaneously. Using the architecture disclosed above this functionality may be achieved as follows. If the list of profiles for WLP networks includes at least two networks both of which are simultaneously visible and the service settings allow for simultaneous connection to multiple networks the WLP Auto Configuration service will attempt to bring both networks online.

The WLP Auto Configuration service will identify an available disabled WLP device instance that it can use to configure the second network. If none is available it will first call the bus driver to create a new WLP device. If the device is currently disabled the Auto Configuration service will call the PnP manager to enable the device.

Since the new device instance has been identified as a WLP device the operating system may notify the miniport driver of a new device instance. The miniport driver will bind to the new device instance and register it with NDIS. Once the WLP Auto Configuration service is notified of the new device it may initialize it via the MSM . The WLP Auto Configuration service may then proceed to setup the second connection on that device instance.

It may be desirable to manage WLP profiles. In one embodiment a user interface provides information and control to a user for connected WLP networks in the operating system. In one embodiment the user interface mechanism may be a Network Center although any type of user interface mechanism may be provided and the invention is not limited in this regard. A Network Center may have a link for managing wireless profiles. In one embodiment if a user wants to manage a WLP profile Network Center calls the necessary APIs from WLP Profile which in turn proxies the request to the WLP Auto Configuration Service module . In another embodiment Network Center may call the Common Layer 2 APIs from Layer 2 Service which in turn proxy the request to the WLP Auto Configuration Service module .

Network Center may load the profile from WLP Profile via the provided APIs. Alternatively in one embodiment Network Center may load the profile from the Profile Store via the Common Layer 2 APIs if Layer 2 Service is implemented as part of the architecture . The WLP profile containing settings for Auto Configuration Service module MSM and Security Module is displayed in the Advanced Profile UI.

If the user makes any changes to the WLP profile the profile is validated by the WLP Auto Configuration service for the Auto Configuration portion of the profile. Auto Configuration then passes the rest of the data to MSM for it to validate its section. After MSM validates connectivity settings it passes the profile to Security Module for security settings validation. After all the components have validated the profile Auto Configuration Service module saves the profile in the profile store .

If the new profile results in a change to the current connections Auto Configuration resets its connection state machine.

As should be appreciated from the foregoing discussion and non limiting examples one aspect of the invention provides a multiplexing driver framework in a WLP compatible software architecture. The multiplexing network driver framework may enable the system to connect to a plurality of WLP networks simultaneously over a single physical adapter.

According to another aspect of the invention a miniport driver is provided for use in a software architecture offering WLP capabilities. The miniport driver may be configured to communicate with a multiplexing network driver. The miniport driver may comprise commands specific to use in a WLP environment.

According to another aspect of the invention a software architecture providing WLP compatibility comprises a roaming service enabling a UWB device to roam within radio range of available WLP networks. The roaming service may comprise modules providing communication between the kernel mode and user mode of the software architecture. The communication may comprise data and control signals for determination of which WLP network or networks to connect to out of a plurality of available WLP networks. The roaming server may further comprise security functionality for managing security functions of the UWB device.

Having thus described several aspects of at least one embodiment of this invention it is to be appreciated that various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Such alterations modifications and improvements are intended to be part of this disclosure and are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the foregoing description and drawings are by way of example only.

For example while some of the figures and embodiments have been described as utilizing a WLP wireless protocol any ad hoc wireless protocol can be used of which WLP is merely one example. The technology is not limited in this respect. Rather the architecture and methods described herein may be used to provide ad hoc wireless connectivity utilizing any wireless networking protocol. Moreover several embodiments and examples have been described as being compatible with UWB technology. However the architecture and methods disclosed herein may operate with other wireless technologies besides UWB technology as the invention is not limited in this respect.

The above described embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in any of numerous ways. For example the embodiments may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof. When implemented in software the software code can be executed on any suitable processor or collection of processors whether provided in a single computer or distributed among multiple computers.

Further it should be appreciated that a computer may be embodied in any of a number of forms such as a rack mounted computer a desktop computer a laptop computer or a tablet computer. Additionally a computer may be embedded in a device not generally regarded as a computer but with suitable processing capabilities including a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a smart phone or any other suitable portable or fixed electronic device.

Also a computer may have one or more input and output devices. These devices can be used among other things to present a user interface. Examples of output devices that can be used to provide a user interface include printers or display screens for visual presentation of output and speakers or other sound generating devices for audible presentation of output. Examples of input devices that can be used for a user interface include keyboards and pointing devices such as mice touch pads and digitizing tablets. As another example a computer may receive input information through speech recognition or in other audible format.

Such computers may be interconnected by one or more networks in any suitable form including as a local area network or a wide area network such as an enterprise network or the Internet. Such networks may be based on any suitable technology and may operate according to any suitable protocol and may include wireless networks wired networks or fiber optic networks.

Also the various methods or processes outlined herein may be coded as software that is executable on one or more processors that employ any one of a variety of operating systems or platforms. Additionally such software may be written using any of a number of suitable programming languages and or conventional programming or scripting tools and also may be compiled as executable machine language code or intermediate code that is executed on a framework or virtual machine.

In this respect the invention may be embodied as a computer readable medium or multiple computer readable media e.g. a computer memory one or more floppy discs compact discs optical discs magnetic tapes flash memories circuit configurations in Field Programmable Gate Arrays or other semiconductor devices etc. encoded with one or more programs that when executed on one or more computers or other processors perform methods that implement the various embodiments of the invention discussed above. The computer readable medium or media can be transportable such that the program or programs stored thereon can be loaded onto one or more different computers or other processors to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above.

The terms program or software are used herein in a generic sense to refer to any type of computer code or set of computer executable instructions that can be employed to program a computer or other processor to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above. Additionally it should be appreciated that according to one aspect of this embodiment one or more computer programs that when executed perform methods of the present invention need not reside on a single computer or processor but may be distributed in a modular fashion amongst a number of different computers or processors to implement various aspects of the present invention.

Computer executable instructions may be in many forms such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

Also data structures may be stored in computer readable media in any suitable form. For simplicity of illustration data structures may be shown to have fields that are related through location in the data structure. Such relationships may likewise be achieved by assigning storage for the fields with locations in a computer readable medium that conveys relationship between the fields. However any suitable mechanism may be used to establish a relationship between information in fields of a data structure including through the use of pointers tags or other mechanisms that establish relationship between data elements.

Various aspects of the present invention may be used alone in combination or in a variety of arrangements not specifically discussed in the embodiments described in the foregoing and is therefore not limited in its application to the details and arrangement of components set forth in the foregoing description or illustrated in the drawings. For example aspects described in one embodiment may be combined in any manner with aspects described in other embodiments.

Also the invention may be embodied as a method of which an example has been provided. The acts performed as part of the method may be ordered in any suitable way. Accordingly embodiments may be constructed in which acts are performed in an order different than illustrated which may include performing some acts simultaneously even though shown as sequential acts in illustrative embodiments.

Use of ordinal terms such as first second third etc. in the claims to modify a claim element does not by itself connote any priority precedence or order of one claim element over another or the temporal order in which acts of a method are performed but are used merely as labels to distinguish one claim element having a certain name from another element having a same name but for use of the ordinal term to distinguish the claim elements.

Also the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising or having containing involving and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.

As described above according to one or more aspects of the present invention a miniport driver is provided such as miniport driver in . The miniport driver may expose predefined object identifications OIDs with which a MUX IM driver may interact. An example specification of the predefined OIDs which are NDIS OIDs in the example is now provided. However it should be recognized that other OIDs are possible and the invention is not limited in this respect.

This OID request queries the device specific information and firmware capabilities WLP version of the device device name manufacturer name etc . The format of the buffer is as below 

The WiNet miniport driver should complete this OID request with NDIS STATUS SUCCESS or some appropriate error as soon as possible.

This OID request queries sets the current channel information. The WiNet miniport driver should complete this OID request with NDIS STATUS SUCCESS or some appropriate error as soon as possible.

This OID request initiates a scan request with the objective of retrieving a list of beacons from visible devices beaconing in the specified channels.

The URC driver should ensure that scan operation does not impact its child adapters operational behavior. Also once the scan operation is complete the WiNet device must revert back to same band group and channel number on which it was parked before the scan request was issued.

The start of channel list is calculated using the start of WINET SCAN REQUEST data structure ChannelListOffset. User should never use start of the WINET SCAN REQUEST sizeof WINET SCAN REQUEST to calculate start of channel list since size of the data structure can change. Channel list is a list of WINET CHANNEL data structure identifying specific scan channels.

This OID request enumerates all the neighboring WiNet devices. The request is usually issued after a WSS specific OID WINET SCAN REQUEST is completed.

The WiNet miniport driver should complete this OID request with NDIS STATUS SUCCESS or some appropriate error as soon as possible.

Start of the beacon buffer is calculated using start address of the WINET BEACON ENTRY structure BeaconOffset. User should never use start address of the WINET BEACON ENTRY structure sizeof WINET BEACON ENTRY to calculate start of the beacon buffer since sizeof WINET BEACON ENTRY might change.

This OID request deletes specified cached information in miniport. WINET CACHED INFORMATION specifies which cached information caller wants to flush. Specifying 0xffffffff means flush all cached info. The miniport driver should complete this OID request with NDIS STATUS SUCCESS or some appropriate error as soon as possible.

Input WINET CACHED INFORMATION Flag A bitmask indicates which cache information caller wants to flush e.g. KeyTable etc. Setting it to 0xffffffff means flush all information.

This OID adds specified IE in local beacon for the WiNet device. It could be Winet IE or any other IE caller chooses to add. The miniport driver should complete this OID request with NDIS STATUS SUCCESS or some appropriate error as soon as possible.

Output WINET BEACON IE HANDLE structure defined below. For a successfully set IE miniport is going to return a non NULL handle. Caller is required to pass this handle in order to remove the IE from beacon.

This OID removes a specified IE from local beacon for the WiNet device. The miniport driver should complete this OID request with NDIS STATUS SUCCESS or some appropriate error as soon as possible.

This OID queries IEs in its local beacon. The miniport driver should complete this OID request with NDIS STATUS SUCCESS or some appropriate error as soon as possible.

This OID request contains a UWB command frame for example the 4 way handshake frames to be transmitted to a target WiNet device. If the miniport driver can complete the request immediately it should return with NDIS STATUS SUCCESS or some appropriate error. Otherwise it can return NDIS STATUS PENDING and complete the request when it finishes transmitting the frame.

Start of the command frame is calculated using start of WINET UWB COMMAND FRAME structure FrameOffset. User should never use start of WINET UWB COMMAND FRAME sizeof WINET UWB COMMAND FRAME to calculate the start of command frame since sizeof WINET UWB COMMAND FRAME might change.

This OID request instructs the miniport to update the security key for specified peer device. This is normally issued after a 4 way security hand shake completes between two devices. The winet miniport driver should complete this request with a NDIS STATUS SUCCESS or an appropriate failure code as soon as possible

Start of key buffer is calculated using start of WINET UWB UPDATE SECURITY KEY structure KeyOffset. User should never use start of the WINET UWB UPDATE SECURITY KEY structure sizeof WINET UWB UPDATE SECURITY KEY to calculate the start of the key buffer since sizeof WINET UWB UPDATE SECURITY KEY might change.

This OID request instructs the miniport to allow block classes of UWB command frames identified by the frame subtype array to be passed up the stack. This is necessary to allow the operation of the 4 way handshake in the filter driver. By default all command frames are not indicated to Winet IM driver.

Start of subtype buffer is calculated using start of WINET UWB FILTER COMMAND FRAME SUBTYPES structure SubTypesOffset. User should never use start of the WINET UWB FILTER COMMAND FRAME SUBTYPES structure sizeof WINET UWB FILTER COMMAND FRAME SUBTYPES to calculate the start of the subtype buffer since sizeof WINET UWB FILTER COMMAND FRAME SUBTYPES might change. SubType buffer is a list of WINET UWB COMMAND FRAME SUBTYPE structure identifying specific command frame types.

This OID queries or sets the short retry limit for the WiNet device that is the retry limit for frames no longer than the RTS threshold.

This OID queries or sets the long retry limit for the WiNet device that is the retry limit for frames longer than the RTS threshold.

This OID queries or sets the maximum transmit frame lifetime in the units of MAS time i.e. 256 us for the WiNet device. If a frame is still not successfully transmit this amount of time after the initial transmission of frame further attempts to transmit the frame shall be terminated.

This OID queries or sets the maximum receive fragment lifetime in the units of MAS time i.e. 256 us for the WiNet device. If a receive frame is still not fully reassembled this amount of time after the reception of the initial fragment further attempts to reassemble the frame shall be terminated.

This OID queries or sets the power saving mode of the WiNet device. A WiNet device can be in one of the following three power saving modes in the order of decreasing power consumptions 

The miniport driver should complete this OID request with NDIS STATUS SUCCESS or some appropriate error as soon as possible.

This OID request queries or sets the current maximum data rate for the WiNet adapter. All frames transmitted by the adapter must use the data rates no higher than the specified maximum rate. The maximum rate must be one of the supported data rates of the WiNet device.

This OID request sets or terminates the block ACK policy with a target device. The local device can only send data frames to a target device with block ACK policy if it has the block ACK policy set up with the target device. Regardless if the block ACK policy is in effect with a target device the local WiNet device can always transmit unicast data frames with either no ACK or immediate ACK policy with the target device. 

Output An array of WINET EUI48 ADDRESS. The number of multicast address returned is InformationBufferLength sizeof WINET EUI48 ADDRESS .

Input An array of WINET EUI48 ADDRESS. The number of multicast address returned is InformationBufferLength sizeof WINET EUI48 ADDRESS .

This OID request enables disables the change notification for specified IE types. Miniport is going to deliver the notification if any of the IE type in the specified list changes in a device s beacon.

Start of IE identifier list is calculated using start of WINET IE IDENTIFIER LIST IEIdentifierOffset. User should never use start of WINET IE IDENTIFIER LIST sizeof WINET IE IDENTIFIER LIST to calculate the IE identifier list address since sizeof WINET IE IDENTIFIER LIST might change. IE identifier list is a list of WINET UWB IE TYPE identifying specific IE types.

This OID request sets or queries the current packet filter on the WiNet adapter. A WiNet miniport driver must support both a subset of standard NDIS packet filter type and WiNet specific packet filter types.

When enabled these standard packet filters are only applicable to UWB data packets including WiNet data control and association packets.

