---

title: Fused bicyclic oxazolidinone CETP inhibitor
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09346825&OS=09346825&RS=09346825
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 09346825
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140908
---
This application is a continuation under 35USC 120 of copending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 660 010 filed Oct. 25 2012 which claim the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 552 592 filed Oct. 28 2011. Each of the aforementioned U.S. Applications is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates to chemical compounds that inhibit cholesterol ester transfer protein CETP and are expected to have utility in raising HDL C lowering LDL C and in the treatment and prevention of atherosclerosis.

Atherosclerosis and its clinical consequences including coronary heart disease CHD stroke and peripheral vascular disease represent a truly enormous burden to the health care systems of the industrialized world. In the United States alone approximately 13 million patients have been diagnosed with CHD and greater than one half million deaths are attributed to CHD each year. Further this toll is expected to grow over the next quarter century as an epidemic in obesity and diabetes continues to grow.

It has long been recognized that in mammals variations in circulating lipoprotein profiles correlate with the risk of atherosclerosis and CHD. The clinical success of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors especially the statins in reducing coronary events is based on the reduction of circulating low density lipoprotein cholesterol LDL C levels of which correlate directly with an increased risk for atherosclerosis. More recently epidemiologic studies have demonstrated an inverse relationship between high density lipoprotein cholesterol HDL C levels and atherosclerosis leading to the conclusion that low serum HDL C levels are associated with an increased risk for CHD.

Metabolic control of lipoprotein levels is a complex and dynamic process involving many factors. One important metabolic control in man is the cholesteryl ester transfer protein CETP a plasma glycoprotein that catalyzes the movement of cholesteryl esters from HDL to the apoB containing lipoproteins especially VLDL see Hesler C. B. et. al. 1987 262 5 2275 2282 . Under physiological conditions the net reaction is a heteroexchange in which CETP carries triglyceride to HDL from the apoB lipoprotein and transports cholesterol ester from HDL to the apoB lipoprotein.

In humans CETP plays a role in reverse cholesterol transport the process whereby cholesterol is returned to the liver from peripheral tissues. Intriguingly many animals do not possess CETP including animals that have high HDL levels and are known to be resistant to coronary heart disease such as rodents see Guyard Dangremont V. et. al. 1998 14 120 3 517 525 . Numerous epidemiologic studies correlating the effects of natural variation in CETP activity with respect to coronary heart disease risk have been performed including studies on a small number of known human null mutations see Hirano K. I. Yamashita S and Matsuzawa Y. 2000 11 6 589 596 . These studies have clearly demonstrated an inverse correlation between plasma HDL C concentration and CETP activity see Inazu A. et. al. 2000 11 4 389 396 leading to the hypothesis that pharmacologic inhibition of CETP lipid transfer activity may be beneficial to humans by increasing levels of HDL C while lowering LDL C.

Despite the significant therapeutic advance that statins such as simvastatin and atorvastatin represent statins only achieve a risk reduction of approximately one third in the treatment and prevention of atherosclerosis and ensuing atherosclerotic disease events. Currently few pharmacologic therapies are available that favorably raise circulating levels of HDL C. Certain statins and some fibrates offer modest HDL C gains. Niacin provides an effective therapy for raising HDL C but suffers from patient compliance issues due in part to side effects such as flushing. Drugs that inhibit CETP CETP inhibitors have been under development with the expectation that they will effectively raise HDL cholesterol levels and also reduce the incidence of atherosclerosis in patients. Torcetrapib was the first drug that was tested in a long term outcomes clinical trial. The clinical trial of torcetrapib was terminated early due to a higher incidence of mortality in patients to whom torcetrapib and atorvastatin were administered concomitantly compared with patients who were treated with atorvastatin alone. The cause of the increased mortality is not completely understood but it is not believed to be associated with the CETP inhibiting effects of the drug. Dalcetrapib was recently tested in a Phase III outcomes trial which was terminated early because the interim data did not show a clinical benefit. There were no safety issues detected for dalcetrapib.

Anacetrapib is currently the only CETP inhibitor being tested in a large scale Phase III clinical outcomes trial. Data from the recently completed DEFINE Phase II III trial of anacetrapib are promising. Patients who were treated with anacetrapib along with baseline statin therapy showed an increase of HDL C of 138 and a decrease of LDL C of 40 compared with patients who were treated with just a statin. See 2010 363 2406 15. The DEFINE study was not carried out on a large enough scale to serve as a pivotal outcomes trial but the data in the DEFINE trial were sufficient to indicate that an increase in mortality for patients treated with anacetrapib is unlikely. Additional drug candidates are in development. Evacetrapib currently appears to be the next CETP inhibitor that will proceed to a Phase III outcomes trial. Additional compounds are being sought that may have properties that are advantageous compared with the CETP inhibitors that have so far been studied or are currently being studied. Such properties may include for example higher potency reduced off target activity better pharmacodynamics higher bioavailability or a reduced food effect compared with many of the highly lipophilic compounds that have so far been studied. Food effect refers to the variability in exposure to the active drug that occurs depending on when the patient had last eaten whether or not the drug is administered with food and the fat content of the food.

The compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is a potent CETP inhibitor having the utilities described below 

In Formula I Ris H C Calkyl OC Calkyl C Calkenyl OC Calkenyl C Calkynyl OC Calkynyl OH halogen CN NRR COR C O NRR SONRR HET 3 or Ccycloalkyl optionally having 1 2 double bonds wherein C Calkyl OC Calkyl C Calkenyl OC Calkenyl C Calkynyl and OC Calkynyl are each optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens and wherein HET 3 and Ccycloalkyl optionally having 1 2 double bonds are optionally substituted with 1 3 substituent groups which are each independently halogen C Calkyl OC Calkyl C Calkenyl OC Calkenyl C Calkynyl or OC Calkynyl wherein C Calkyl OC Calkyl C Calkenyl OC Calkenyl C Calkynyl and OC Calkynyl are each optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens 

HET 3 is a 3 6 membered heterocyclic ring having 1 3 heteroatom groups which are each independently N NH O S S O or S O and optionally having 1 3 double bonds 

R R and Rare each independently H C Calkyl OC Calkyl C Calkenyl OC Calkenyl C Calkynyl OC Calkynyl OH halogen CN NRR COR C O NRR or SONRR wherein C Calkyl OC Calkyl C Calkenyl OC Calkenyl C Calkynyl and OC Calkynyl are optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens 

Each Ris independently C Calkyl OC Calkyl C Calkenyl OC Calkenyl C Calkynyl OC Calkynyl OH halogen CN NRR COR C O NRR or SONRR wherein C Calkyl OC Calkyl C Calkenyl OC Calkenyl C Calkynyl and OC Calkynyl are optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens 

Ais phenyl HET 1 or C Ccycloalkyl optionally having 1 2 double bonds wherein Ais optionally substituted with one substituent group Z and is optionally substituted with 1 3 groups which are each independently C Calkyl OC Calkyl C Calkenyl OC Calkenyl C Calkynyl OC Calkynyl halogen OH or CN wherein C Calkyl OC Calkyl C Calkenyl OC Calkenyl C Calkynyl and OC Calkynyl are optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens 

Each HET 1 is a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic ring having 1 4 heteroatom groups which are each independently N NH S O S O or S O optionally having one group C O and optionally having 1 3 double bonds 

Z is A C Calkylene COR C Calkylene C O NRR C Calkylene SONRR COR C O NRR SONRR or C Calkylene HET 2 wherein C Calkylene in all uses is optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens and HET 2 is optionally substituted with 1 3 substituents which are independently Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 5 halogens OC Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 5 halogens halogen or NRR.

Ais phenyl C Ccycloalkyl optionally having 1 2 double bonds or HET 1 wherein Ais optionally substituted with 1 3 groups which are each independently C Calkyl OC Calkyl C Calkenyl OC Calkenyl C Calkynyl OC Calkynyl halogen OH or CN wherein C Calkyl OC Calkyl C Calkenyl OC Calkenyl C Calkynyl and OC Calkynyl are optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens and Ais optionally substituted with one group which is HET 2 Calkylene COR Calkylene C O NRR C Calkylene SONRR COR C O NRR or SONRR wherein C Calkylene in all uses is optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens and wherein HET 2 is optionally substituted with 1 3 groups which are each independently halogen Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens OCalkyl optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens or NRR 

HET 2 is a 5 6 membered heterocyclic ring having 1 3 heteroatom groups which are each independently N NH O or S optionally having one group C O and optionally having 1 3 double bonds 

Ais phenyl or HET 1 wherein Ais optionally substituted with 1 3 substituent groups which are each independently C Calkyl OC Calkyl C Calkenyl OC Calkenyl C Calkynyl OC Calkynyl halogen CN OH or Ccycloalkyl wherein C Calkyl OC Calkyl C Calkenyl OC Calkenyl C Calkynyl and OC Calkynyl are optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens and Ccycloalkyl is optionally substituted with 1 3 substituents which are each independently halogen C Calkyl or OC Calkyl wherein C Calkyl and OC Calkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens and

In the compound of Formula I or Formula Ia and in subgroups and other embodiments of the invention alkyl groups and substituents based on alkyl groups such as alkoxy may be linear or branched unless otherwise indicated.

In general references to the compound s of formula I or Ia are meant to also include subsets of compounds of formula I and Ia as may be defined herein and also are meant to include the specific numbered examples provided herein.

In further embodiments of the invention the substituent groups defined above may have alternative values independent of one another as written below. Such embodiments include pharmaceutically acceptable salts when such salts are possible.

In many embodiments Ris C Calkyl OC Calkyl halogen NRR HET 3 or Ccycloalkyl optionally having 1 2 double bonds wherein C Calkyl and OC Calkyl are optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens and wherein HET 3 and Ccycloalkyl optionally having 1 2 double bonds are optionally substituted with 1 3 substituent groups which are each independently halogen CH CF OCH or OCF.

In many embodiments R R and Rare each independently H C Calkyl OC Calkyl or halogen wherein C Calkyl and OC Calkyl are optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens.

In many embodiments R R and Rare each independently H Calkyl OCalkyl or halogen wherein C Calkyl and OC Calkyl are optionally substituted with 1 3 halogens.

In many embodiments each Ris independently C Calkyl OC Calkyl or halogen wherein C Calkyl and OC Calkyl are optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl HET 1 or C Ccycloalkyl optionally having 1 2 double bonds wherein Ais optionally substituted with one substituent group Z and is optionally substituted with 1 3 groups which are each independently halogen OH CN Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens or OCalkyl optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl HET 1 or C Ccycloalkyl optionally having 1 2 double bonds wherein Ais optionally substituted with one substituent group Z and is optionally substituted with 1 3 groups which are each independently Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 5 halogens OCalkyl optionally substituted with 1 5 halogens halogen OH or CN.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl pyridinyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl oxazolyl pyrrolyl thienyl furyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclohexyl cyclohexenyl cyclopentyl or cyclopentenyl wherein Ais optionally substituted with 1 3 groups which are each independently F Cl OCH OCF Calkyl CN or CF and optionally one substituent group Z.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl pyridinyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl oxazolyl pyrrolyl thienyl furyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclohexyl cyclohexenyl cyclopentyl or cyclopentenyl wherein Ais optionally substituted with 1 3 groups which are each independently F Cl OCH OCF isopropyl CN CH or CF and optionally one substituent group Z.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl pyridyl thienyl furyl cyclohexenyl or cyclopentenyl wherein Ais optionally substituted with 1 3 groups which are each independently F Cl OCH isopropyl CN CH or CF and optionally one substituent group Z.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl or HET 1 wherein Ais optionally substituted with 1 3 substituent groups which are each independently Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens OCalkyl optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens halogen OH CN or Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 substituents which are each independently halogen CF CH OCF or OCH.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl or HET 1 wherein Ais substituted with 1 3 substituent groups which are each independently Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens OCalkyl optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens halogen OH CN or Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 substituents which are each independently halogen CF CH OCF or OCH.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl or HET 1 wherein Ais substituted with 1 3 substituent groups which are each independently CH CF OCH OCF halogen CN OH or Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 substituents which are each independently halogen CF CH OCF or OCH.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl or HET 1 wherein Ais substituted with 1 3 substituent groups which are each independently CF CH F Cl CN or cyclopropyl.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl which is substituted with 1 2 substituent groups which are each independently CF CH F or Cl.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl C Ccycloalkyl optionally having 1 2 double bonds or HET 1 wherein Ais optionally substituted with 1 3 groups which are each independently C Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens OC Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens OH or halogen and is optionally substituted with one group which is HET 2 Calkylene COR Calkylene C O NRR C Calkylene SONRR COR C O NRR or SONRR wherein C Calkylene is optionally substituted with 1 3 halogens and wherein HET 2 is optionally substituted with 1 3 groups which are each independently halogen Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens OCalkyl optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens or NRR.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl C Ccycloalkyl optionally having 1 2 double bonds or HET 1 wherein Ais optionally substituted with 1 3 groups which are each independently C Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens OC Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens or halogen and is optionally substituted with one group which is HET 2 Calkylene COR Calkylene C O NRR C Calkylene SONRR COR C O NRR or SONRR wherein C Calkylene is optionally substituted with 1 3 halogens and wherein HET 2 is optionally substituted with 1 3 groups which are each independently halogen Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens OCalkyl optionally substituted with 1 7 halogens or NRR.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl C Ccycloalkyl or HET 1 wherein Ais optionally substituted with 1 3 groups which are each independently CH CF OCH OCF or halogen and is optionally substituted with one group which is HET 2 CH COR CH C O NRR CH SONRR COR C O NRR or SONRR and HET 2 is optionally substituted with 1 3 groups which are each independently CH CF OCH OCF halogen or NRR.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl C Ccycloalkyl optionally having 1 2 double bonds or HET 1 wherein Ais optionally substituted with 1 3 groups which are each independently CH CF OCH OCF OH or halogen and is optionally substituted with one group which is HET 2 CH COR CH C O NRR CH SONRR COR C O NRR or SONRR and HET 2 is optionally substituted with 1 3 groups which are each independently CH CF OCH OCF halogen or NRR.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl pyridyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl oxazolyl pyrrolyl thienyl furyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclohexyl cyclohexenyl cyclopentyl or cyclopentenyl wherein Ais optionally substituted with 1 2 groups which are each independently CH CF OCH OCF or halogen and is optionally substituted with 1 group which is COR C O NRR SONRR or HET 2 wherein HET 2 is optionally substituted with 1 2 substituent groups which are each independently CH CF OCH OCF halogen or NRR.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclohexyl cyclohexenyl cyclopentyl cyclopentenyl or HET 1 wherein HET 1 is pyridinyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl oxazolyl pyrrolyl thienyl furyl or a 5 6 membered heterocyclic ring having 1 2 heteroatom groups which are independently N NH or O and optionally one C O group wherein Ais optionally substituted with 1 2 groups which are each independently CH CF OCH OCF OH or halogen and is optionally substituted with 1 group which is COR C O NRR SONRR or HET 2 wherein HET 2 is optionally substituted with 1 2 substituent groups which are each independently CH CF OCH OCF halogen or NRR.

In many embodiments Ais phenyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl or HET 1 wherein HET 1 is pyridinyl 6 oxopiperidinyl 2 oxo 1 3 oxazolidinyl 2 oxo 1 3 oxazinanyl or 5 oxopyrrolidinyl wherein Ais optionally substituted with 1 2 groups CH OCH or OH and is optionally substituted with 1 group 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl 5 amino 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl or COR in which R is H or CH.

In many embodiments Z is A CH COR CH C O NRR CH SONRR COR C O NRR SONRR or CH HET 2 wherein HET 2 is optionally substituted with 1 3 substituents which are independently Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 5 halogens OCalkyl optionally substituted with 1 5 halogens halogen or NRR.

In many embodiments Z is A CHCHCOR CHCHC O NRR CHCHSONRR or CHCH HET 2 wherein HET 2 is optionally substituted with 1 2 substituent groups which are each independently CH CF OCH OCF halogen or NRR.

In many embodiments Z is A CHCHCOR CHCH 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl or CHCH 5 amino 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl . In many embodiments each HET 1 is a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic ring having 1 3 heteroatom groups which are each independently N NH S or O optionally having one group C O and optionally having 1 3 double bonds 

In many embodiments each HET 1 is a 5 or 6 membered heteroaromatic ring having 1 4 heteroatom groups which are each independently N NH S or O 

In many embodiments HET 2 is a 5 membered heterocyclic ring having 1 3 heteroatom groups which are each independently N NH O or S optionally having one group C O and optionally having 1 3 double bonds.

In many embodiments the compounds disclosed above and hereinafter can also be represented by Formula Ia wherein the dashed line in the ring in Formula Ia is an optional double bond. The substituent groups described above for Formula I can also be used in Formula Ia.

In many embodiments the dashed line in the ring in Formula Ia is an optional double bond when x is 0.

 Alkyl means saturated carbon chains which may be linear or branched or combinations thereof unless the carbon chain is defined otherwise. Other groups having the prefix alk such as alkoxy and alkanoyl also may be linear or branched or combinations thereof unless the carbon chain is defined otherwise. Examples of alkyl groups include methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl n butyl sec butyl tert butyl pentyl hexyl heptyl octyl nonyl and the like.

 Alkylene groups are alkyl groups that are difunctional rather than monofunctional. For example methyl is an alkyl group and methylene CH is the corresponding alkylene group. Alkyl groups that are shown as difunctional are alkylene groups even if they are referred to as alkyl groups.

 Alkenyl means carbon chains which contain at least one carbon carbon double bond and which may be linear or branched or combinations thereof. Examples of alkenyl include vinyl allyl isopropenyl pentenyl hexenyl heptenyl 1 propenyl 2 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl and the like.

 Alkynyl means carbon chains which contain at least one carbon carbon triple bond and which may be linear or branched or combinations thereof. Examples of alkynyl include ethynyl propargyl 3 methyl 1 pentynyl 2 heptynyl and the like.

 Cycloalkyl means a saturated carbocyclic ring having from 3 to 8 carbon atoms unless otherwise stated. The term also includes a cycloalkyl ring fused to an aryl group. Examples of cycloalkyl include cyclopropyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and the like. Cycloalkenyl means a non aromatic carbocyclic ring having one or more double binds.

 Aryl when used to describe a substituent or group in a structure means a monocyclic or bicyclic compound in which the rings are aromatic and which contain only carbon ring atoms. The term aryl can also refer to an aryl group that is fused to a cycloalkyl or heterocycle. Preferred aryls are phenyl and naphthyl. Phenyl is generally the most preferred aryl group.

 Heterocycle or heterocyclic means a fully or partially saturated or aromatic cyclic compound containing 1 or more heteroatom groups which may be one or more of N S O S O S O or N R and may have one or more double bonds where R is H or a substituent group. In general when heterocycles are defined herein the definition will include the number of ring members the number of double bonds if any and the specific heteroatoms. The heterocycles in some cases will be aromatic depending on the number of double bonds e.g. 6 membered ring with 3 double bonds . S O S O and N R are referred to as heteroatom groups and each heteroatom group is counted as one ring member as is also the case for N S and O.

 Benzoheterocycle represents a phenyl ring fused to a heterocyclic ring. Examples include indole benzofuran 2 3 dihydrobenzofuran and quinoline.

The term composition as in pharmaceutical composition is intended to encompass a product comprising the active ingredient s and the inert ingredient s that make up the carrier as well as any product which results directly or indirectly from combination complexation or aggregation of any two or more of the ingredients or from dissociation of one or more of the ingredients or from other types of reactions or interactions of one or more of the ingredients. Accordingly the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention encompass any composition made by admixing a compound of Formula I or Ia and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The compounds disclosed herein generally have at least two asymmetric centers and can thus occur as pure stereoisomers and as mixtures of stereoisomers including racemates racemic mixtures single enantiomers mixtures of enantiomers diastereomeric mixtures and individual diastereomers. Different stereoisomers having the same 2 dimensional chemical structure may have different levels of activity with respect to CETP inhibition so that some stereoisomers may have higher activity than others. The compounds that are potent inhibitors of CETP may have utility in patients for raising HDL C lowering LDL C treating dyslipidemia and for preventing treating or delaying the onset of conditions that are related to atherosclerosis. Stereoisomers that have little or no activity may have utility as research tools for better understanding CETP inhibition. All stereoisomers of the claimed compounds thus have utility. The compounds of Formula I or Ia may also occur as atropisomers rotamers due to hindered rotation which may be observable by NMR spectroscopy and in some cases may be stable enough with respect to conversion by bond rotation to other atropisomers that they can be isolated and assayed.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases or acids including inorganic or organic bases and inorganic or organic acids. Salts derived from inorganic bases include aluminum ammonium calcium copper ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganic salts manganous potassium sodium zinc and the like. Particularly preferred are the ammonium calcium magnesium potassium and sodium salts. Salts in the solid form may exist in more than one crystal structure and may also be in the form of hydrates. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins such as arginine betaine caffeine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine diethylamine 2 diethylaminoethanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol ethanolamine ethylamine ethylenediamine N ethyl morpholine N ethylpiperidine glucamine glucosamine histidine hydrabamine isopropylamine lysine methylglucamine morpholine piperazine piperidine polyamine resins procaine purines theobromine triethylamine triethanolamine trimethylamine tripropylamine tromethamine and the like.

When the compound of Formula I or Ia is basic salts may be prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acids including inorganic and organic acids. Such acids include acetic adipic ascorbic benzenesulfonic benzoic camphorsulfonic citric diethylacetic ethanesulfonic formic fumaric gluconic glutamic hydrobromic hydrochloric isethionic isonicotinic lactic maleic malic malonic mandelic methanesulfonic mucic naphthalenedisulfonic nitric oxalic pamoic pantothenic phenylpropionic phosphoric pimelic pivalic propionic salicylic succinic sulfuric sulfaminic tartaric p toluenesulfonic acid trifluoroacetic and the like. Particularly preferred are citric hydrobromic hydrochloric maleic phosphoric sulfuric and tartaric acids.

It will be understood that as used herein references to the compounds of Formula I and Ia and to the examples are meant to also include the pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs where such salts and prodrugs are possible.

Prodrugs which are compounds that are converted to the compound of Formula I or Ia as they are being administered to a patient or after they have been administered to a patient are also compounds of formula I or Ia in the sense that they provide the claimed pharmaceutically active drug moiety to the patient.

In the compounds of Formula I and Formula Ia the atoms may exhibit their natural isotopic abundances or one or more of the atoms may be artificially enriched in a particular isotope having the same atomic number but an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number predominantly found in nature. The present invention is meant to include all suitable isotopic variations of the compounds of generic Formula I and Formula Ia. For example different isotopic forms of hydrogen H include protium H and deuterium H . Protium is the predominant hydrogen isotope found in nature. Enriching for deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages such as increasing in vivo half life or reducing dosage requirements or may provide a compound useful as a standard for characterization of biological samples. Isotopically enriched compounds within generic Formula I and Ia can be prepared without undue experimentation by conventional techniques well known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the Schemes and Examples herein using appropriate isotopically enriched reagents and or intermediates.

The compounds disclosed herein including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are potent inhibitors of CETP. The compounds may therefore be useful in treating mammalian patients preferably human patients having diseases and conditions that are treated by inhibition of CETP.

One aspect of the present invention provides a method for treating or reducing the risk of developing a disease or condition that may be treated or prevented by inhibition of CETP by administering a therapeutically effective amount of the compound of Formula I or Ia to a patient in need of treatment. The patient is a human or mammal but is most often a human. A therapeutically effective amount is the amount of compound that is effective in obtaining a desired clinical outcome in the treatment of a specific disease.

Diseases or conditions that may be treated with the compounds of Formula I or Formula Ia or which the patient may have a reduced risk of developing as a result of being treated with the compounds of Formula I or Formula Ia include atherosclerosis peripheral vascular disease dyslipidemia hyperbetalipoproteinemia hypoalphalipoproteinemia hypercholesterolemia hypertriglyceridemia familial hypercholesterolemia cardiovascular disorders angina ischemia cardiac ischemia stroke myocardial infarction reperfusion injury angioplastic restenosis hypertension vascular complications of diabetes obesity endotoxemia and metabolic syndrome. There are reports in the scientific literature that suggest that inhibition of CETP may have utility in preventing or slowing the development of Alzheimer s disease. The compounds of Formula I and Ia may therefore have utility in preventing or delaying the progression of Alzheimer s disease or other neurodegenerative diseases.

The compounds disclosed herein are particularly effective in raising HDL C and or increasing the ratio of HDL C to LDL C. The compounds may also be effective in reducing LDL C and may be effective in treating dyslipidemia. These changes in HDL C and LDL C may be beneficial in treating atherosclerosis reducing or delaying the development of atherosclerosis reducing the risk of developing atherosclerosis or preventing atherosclerosis. The compounds disclosed herein may thus be beneficial in treating atherosclerosis reducing or delaying the development of atherosclerosis reducing the risk of developing atherosclerosis or preventing atherosclerosis.

Likely indications for atherosclerosis and dyslipidemia using the compounds described herein are written below where the drug product is titled CETP inhibitor 

In patients at high risk of cardiovascular events because of existing coronary cerebrovascular or peripheral vascular disease CETP inhibitor co administered with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor is indicated to reduce the risk of coronary mortality myocardial infarction coronary revascularization procedures ischemic stroke and cardiovascular death.

CETP inhibitor co administered with a statin is indicated to reduce elevated LDL C apolipoprotein B ApoB lipoprotein a Lp a non HDL C and total cholesterol and increase HDL C and apolipoprotein A 1 Apo A 1 in patients with mixed or primary dyslipidemia.

Any suitable route of administration may be employed for providing a mammal especially a human with an effective dose of the compounds described herein. For example oral rectal topical parenteral ocular pulmonary nasal and the like may be employed. Dosage forms include tablets troches dispersions suspensions solutions capsules creams ointments aerosols and the like. Preferably the compound of Formula I or Ia is administered orally.

When treating the diseases for which the compound of Formula I or Ia is indicated generally satisfactory results are expected when the compound of Formula I or Ia is administered at a daily dosage of from about 0.1 milligram to about 1000 milligram in one dose daily or divided into more than one dose per day.

Oral administration will usually be carried out using tablets. Examples of doses in tablets include 0.1 mg 0.5 mg 1 mg 2 mg 5 mg 10 mg 25 mg 50 mg 60 mg 70 mg 80 mg 90 mg 100 mg 110 mg 120 mg 130 mg 140 mg 150 mg 160 mg 170 mg 180 mg 190 mg 200 mg 210 mg 220 mg 230 mg 240 mg 250 mg 275 mg 300 mg 350 mg 400 mg 450 mg 500 mg and 1000 mg. Other oral forms can also have the same dosages e.g. capsules . A preferred dose is likely in the range of 50 200 mg.

Another aspect of the present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions which comprise the compound of Formula I or Ia and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention comprise the compound of Formula I or Ia or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt as an active ingredient as well as a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and optionally other therapeutic ingredients. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases or acids including inorganic bases or acids and organic bases or acids. A pharmaceutical composition may also comprise a prodrug or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof if a prodrug is administered. A pharmaceutical composition may also consist essentially of the compound of Formula I or Ia or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier without other therapeutic ingredients.

Pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated to be suitable for oral rectal topical parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular and intravenous ocular ophthalmic pulmonary nasal or buccal inhalation or nasal administration although the most suitable route in any given case will depend on the nature and severity of the conditions being treated and on the nature of the active ingredient. They may be conveniently presented in unit dosage form and prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy.

In practical use the compound of Formula I or Ia can be combined as the active ingredient in intimate admixture with a pharmaceutical carrier according to conventional pharmaceutical compounding techniques. The carrier may take a wide variety of forms depending on the form of preparation desired for administration e.g. oral or parenteral including intravenous . In preparing the compositions for oral dosage form any of the usual pharmaceutical media may be employed such as for example water glycols oils alcohols flavoring agents preservatives coloring agents and the like in the case of oral liquid preparations such as for example suspensions elixirs and solutions or carriers such as starches sugars microcrystalline cellulose diluents granulating agents lubricants binders disintegrating agents and the like in the case of oral solid preparations such as for example powders hard and soft capsules and tablets with the solid oral preparations being preferred over the liquid preparations.

Because of their ease of administration tablets and capsules represent the most advantageous oral dosage unit form in which case solid pharmaceutical carriers are obviously employed. If desired tablets may be coated by standard aqueous or nonaqueous techniques. Such compositions and preparations should contain at least 0.1 percent of active compound. The percentage of active compound in these compositions may of course be varied and may conveniently be between about 2 percent to about 60 percent of the weight of the unit. The amount of active compound in such therapeutically useful compositions is such that an effective dosage will be obtained. The active compound can also be administered intranasally as for example liquid drops or spray.

The tablets pills capsules and the like may also contain a binder such as gum tragacanth acacia corn starch or gelatin excipients such as dicalcium phosphate a disintegrating agent such as corn starch potato starch alginic acid a lubricant such as magnesium stearate and a sweetening agent such as sucrose lactose or saccharin. When a dosage unit form is a capsule it may contain in addition to materials of the above type a liquid carrier such as a fatty oil.

Various other materials may be present as coatings or to modify the physical form of the dosage unit. For instance tablets may be coated with shellac sugar or both. A syrup or elixir may contain in addition to the active ingredient sucrose as a sweetening agent methyl and propylparabens as preservatives a dye and a flavoring such as cherry or orange flavor.

The compound of formula I or Ia may also be administered parenterally. Solutions or suspensions of the compound can be prepared in water suitably mixed with a surfactant such as hydroxypropylcellulose. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols and mixtures thereof in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use these preparations may contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.

The pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. In all cases the form must be sterile and must be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. It must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol e.g. glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol suitable mixtures thereof and vegetable oils.

The compound of Formula I or Ia including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may be used in pharmaceutical combinations with other drugs that may also be useful in the treatment or amelioration of the diseases or conditions for which the compound of Formula I or Ia is useful. Such other drugs may be administered by a route and in an amount commonly used therefor contemporaneously or sequentially with the compound of Formula I or Ia. When the compound of Formula I or Ia is used contemporaneously with one or more other drugs a pharmaceutical composition in unit dosage form containing such other drugs and the compound of Formula I or Ia is preferred. However the combination therapy also includes therapies in which the compound of Formula I or Ia and one or more other drugs are administered concomitantly on the same or different schedules.

When oral formulations are used the drugs may be combined into a single combination tablet or other oral dosage form or the drugs may be packaged together as separate tablets or other oral dosage forms. It is also contemplated that when used in combination with one or more other active ingredients the compound of formula I or Ia and the other active ingredients may be used in lower doses than when each is used singly. Accordingly the pharmaceutical compositions of the compound of formula I or Ia include those that contain one or more other active ingredients in addition to the compound of Formula I or Ia.

The compound of Formula I or Ia will likely be approved initially for coadministration with a statin which could be administered in the form of a fixed dose combination of the compound of formula I or Ia and a statin. Additional drugs may also be administered in combination with the compound of Formula I or Ia and the statin either by coadministration or in a fixed dose combination. The compound of formula I or Ia and the drugs that are administered with it may be administered as pharmaceutically acceptable salts as prodrugs or otherwise formulated for immediate release extended release or controlled release as necessary.

Examples of statins that may be administered in combination with the compound of Formula I or Ia include but are not limited to i simvastatin and lovastatin which are marketed as ZOCOR and MEVACOR in lactone prodrug form and function as inhibitors after administration and ii dihydroxy open ring acid HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in LIPITOR rosuvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in CRESTOR pravastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in PRAVACHOL fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in LESCOL and pitavastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in LIVALO and iii other statins that may yet be developed. Preferred statins for combination therapy include atorvastatin rosuvastatin and simvasatin as described above.

Cholesterol absorption inhibitors and particularly ezetimibe ZETIA as well as other cholesterol asorption inhibitors such as stanol esters beta sitosterol sterol glycosides such as tiqueside and other azetidinones may be administered with the compound of Formula I or Ia generally with a statin as described above. The preferred cholesterol absorbtion inhibitor is ezetimibe. Combinations of the compound of formula I or Ia with a statin and a cholesterol inhibitor such as ezetimibe are also contemplated. Preferred 3 component combinations include combinations of the compound of formula I or Ia with simvastatin atorvastatin or rosuvastatin in combination with ezetimibe where the statins may be salt forms or prodrugs as described above. The combination of simvastatin with ezetimibe is currently marketed as VYTORIN .

Other cholesterol reducing drugs that may be coadministered with the compound of formula I or Ia in addition to HMG CoA reductase inhibitors statins and cholesterol absorption inhibitors include i bile acid sequestrants as for example cholestyramine colestipol dialkylaminoalkyl derivatives of a cross linked dextran Colestid and LoCholest ii niacin and related compounds such as nicotinyl alcohol nicotinamide and nicotinic acid or a salt thereof in an immediate release or extended release form which may optionally be in the forme of a combination with a DP 1 antagonist such as laropiprant TREDAPTIVE iii PPARa agonists such as gemfibrozil and fenofibric acid derivatives fibrates including clofibrate fenofibrate bezafibrate ciprofibrate and etofibrate iv acyl CoA cholesterol acyltransferase ACAT inhibitors such as avasimibe and melinamide and including selective ACAT 1 and ACAT 2 inhibitors and dual inhibitors v phenolic anti oxidants such as probucol vi microsomal triglyceride transfer protein MTP ApoB secretion inhibitors vii anti oxidant vitamins such as vitamins C and E and beta carotene viii thyromimetics ix LDL low density lipoprotein receptor inducers x platelet aggregation inhibitors for example glycoprotein IIb IIIa fibrinogen receptor antagonists and aspirin xi vitamin B12 also known as cyanocobalamin xii folic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof such as the sodium salt and the methylglucamine salt xiii FXR and LXR ligands including both inhibitors and agonists xiv agents that enhance ABCAgene expression xv ileal bile acid transporters and xvi niacin receptor agonists e.g. acipimox and acifran and partial agonists.

Finally the compound of formula I or Ia can be combined with compounds that are useful for treating other diseases such as diabetes hypertension and obesity as well as other anti atherosclerotic compounds. Such combinations may be used to treat one or more of such diseases as diabetes obesity atherosclerosis and dyslipidemia or more than one of the diseases associated with metabolic syndrome. The combinations may exhibit synergistic activity in treating these diseases allowing for the possibility of administering reduced doses of active ingredients such as doses that otherwise might be sub therapeutic.

Examples of other active ingredients that may be administered in combination with a compound of formula I or Ia include but are not limited to compounds that are primarily anti diabetic compounds including 

 a PPAR gamma agonists and partial agonists including glitazones and non glitazones e.g. pioglitazone englitazone MCC 555 rosiglitazone balaglitazone netoglitazone T 131 LY 300512 LY 818 and compounds described in WO 02 060388 WO 02 08188 WO 2004 019869 WO 2004 020409 WO 2004 020408 and WO2004 066963 

 b biguanides such as metformin phenformin and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof in particular metformin hydrochloride and extended release formulations thereof such as Glumetza Fortamet and GlucophageXR 

 d dipeptidyl peptidase IV DP IV inhibitors including sitagliptin vildagliptin saxagliptin alogliptin linagliptin dutogliptin teneligliptin MK 3102 and gemigliptin 

 e insulin or insulin mimetics such as for example insulin lispro insulin glargine insulin detemir insulin glulisine insulin degludec SBS1000 insulin zinc suspension and oral and inhalable formulations of insulin and insulin analogs 

 f sulfonylureas such as tolbutamide glipizide glimepiride acetohexamide chlorpropamide glibenclamide and related materials 

 g glucosidase inhibitors such as acarbose adiposine camiglibose emiglitate miglitol voglibose pradimicin Q and salbostatin 

 k GLP 1 GLP 1 derivatives GLP 1 mimetics GLP 1 analogs and GLP 1 receptor agonists such as exendins e.g. exenatide BYETTA dulaglutide semaglutide albiglutide liraglutide lixisenatide and taspoglutide including intranasal tranxsdermal and once weekly formulations thereof and oxyntomodulin analogs and derivatives and non peptidyl GLP 1 receptor agonists 

 n Non sulfonylurea insulin secretagogues such as the meglitinides e.g. glimepiride mitiglinide meglitinide nateglinide and rapeglinide and

Preferred combinations with antidiabetic compounds include combinations of the compounds disclosed herein with DP IV inhibitors sitagliptin vildagliptin saxagliptin alogliptin linagliptin dutogliptin teneligliptin omarigliptin and gemigliptin combinations with biguanides and combinations with both a DP IV inhibitor and a biguanide. The preferred DP IV inhibitor is sitagliptin and the preferred biguanide is metformin in the formulations and salt forms described above.

Other active ingredients that may be used in combination with the compound of formula I or Ia include antiobesity compounds including 5 HT serotonin inhibitors neuropeptide Y5 NPY5 inhibitors melanocortin 4 receptor Mc4r agonists cannabinoid receptor 1 CB 1 antagonists inverse agonists and adrenergic receptor agonists. These are listed in more detail later in this section.

These other active ingredients also include active ingredients that are used to treat inflammatory conditions such as aspirin non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs glucocorticoids azulfidine and selective cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 inhibitors including etoricoxib celecoxib rofecoxib and Bextra.

Antihypertensive compounds may also be used advantageously in combination therapy with the compound of formula I or Ia. Examples of antihypertensive compounds that may be used with the compound of formula I or Ia include thiazide like diuretics e.g. hydrochlorothiazide HCTZ or HCT angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors e.g alacepril benazepril captopril ceronapril cilazapril delapril enalapril enalaprilat fosinopril imidapril lisinopril moveltipril perindopril quinapril ramipril spirapril temocapril or trandolapril dual inhibitors of angiotensin converting enzyme ACE and neutral endopeptidase NEP such as omapatrilat sampatrilat and fasidotril angiotensin II receptor antagonists also known as angiotensin receptor blockers or ARBs which may be in free base free acid salt or pro drug form such as azilsartan e.g. azilsartan medoxomil potassium EDARBI candesartan e.g. candesartan cilexetil ATACAND eprosartan e.g. eprosartan mesylate TEVETAN irbesartan AVAPRO losartan e.g. losartan potassium COZAAR olmesartan e.g olmesartan medoximil BENICAR telmisartan MICARDIS valsartan DIOVAN and any of these drugs used in combination with a thiazide like diuretic such as hydrochlorothiazide e.g. HYZAAR DIOVANHCT ATACAND HCT etc. potassium sparing diuretics such as amiloride HCl spironolactone epleranone triamterene each with or without HCTZ carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as acetazolamide neutral endopeptidase inhibitors e.g. thiorphan and phosphoramidon aldosterone antagonists aldosterone synthase inhibitors renin inhibitors e.g. urea derivatives of di and tri peptides See U.S. Pat. No. 5 116 835 amino acids and derivatives U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 095 119 and 5 104 869 amino acid chains linked by non peptidic bonds U.S. Pat. No. 5 114 937 di and tri peptide derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 5 106 835 peptidyl amino diols U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 063 208 and 4 845 079 and peptidyl beta aminoacyl aminodiol carbamates U.S. Pat. No. 5 089 471 also a variety of other peptide analogs as disclosed in the following U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 071 837 5 064 965 5 063 207 5 036 054 5 036 053 5 034 512 and 4 894 437 and small molecule renin inhibitors including diol sulfonamides and sulfinyls U.S. Pat. No. 5 098 924 N morpholino derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 5 055 466 N heterocyclic alcohols U.S. Pat. No. 4 885 292 and pyrolimidazolones U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 451 also pepstatin derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 4 980 283 and fluoro and chloro derivatives of statone containing peptides U.S. Pat. No. 5 066 643 enalkrein RO 42 5892 A 65317 CP 80794 ES 1005 ES 8891 SQ 34017 aliskiren 2 S 4 S 5 S 7 S N 2 carbamoyl 2 methylpropyl 5 amino 4 hydroxy 2 7 diisopropyl 8 4 methoxy 3 3 methoxypropoxy phenyl octanamid hemifumarate SPP600 SPP630 and SPP635 endothelin receptor antagonists vasodilators e.g. nitroprusside calcium channel blockers e.g. amlodipine nifedipine verapamil diltiazem felodipine gallopamil niludipine nimodipine nicardipine bepridil nisoldipine potassium channel activators e.g. nicorandil pinacidil cromakalim minoxidil aprilkalim loprazolam sympatholitics beta adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. acebutolol atenolol betaxolol bisoprolol carvedilol metoprolol metoprolol tartate nadolol propranolol sotalol timolol alpha adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. doxazocin prazocin or alpha methyldopa central alpha adrenergic agonists peripheral vasodilators e.g. hydralazine and nitrates or nitric oxide donating compounds e.g. isosorbide mononitrate.

Preferred antihypertensives that may be used in combination with the CETP inhibitors disclosed herein include one or more of an angiotensin II antagonist losartan an ACE inhibitor enalapril or captopril and hydrochlorothiazide.

Anti obesity compounds may be administered in combination with the compounds of Formula I or Formula Ia including 1 growth hormone secretagogues and growth hormone secretagogue receptor agonists antagonists such as NN703 and hexarelin 2 protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B PTP 1B inhibitors 3 cannabinoid receptor ligands such as cannabinoid CBreceptor antagonists or inverse agonists such as rimonabant Sanofi Synthelabo AMT 251 and SR 14778 and SR 141716A Sanofi Synthelabo SLV 319 Solvay BAY 65 2520 Bayer 4 anti obesity serotonergic agents such as fenfluramine dexfenfluramine phentermine and sibutramine 5 3 adrenoreceptor agonists such as AD9677 TAK677 Dainippon Takeda CL 316 243 SB 418790 BRL 37344 L 796568 BMS 196085 BRL 35135A CGP12177A BTA 243 Trecadrine Zeneca D7114 and SR 59119A 6 pancreatic lipase inhibitors such as orlistat Xenical Triton WR1339 RHC80267 lipstatin tetrahydrolipstatin teasaponin and diethylumbelliferyl phosphate 7 neuropeptide Y1 antagonists such as BIBP3226 J 115814 BIBO 3304 LY 357897 CP 671906 and GI 264879A 8 neuropeptide Y5 antagonists such as GW 569180A GW 594884A GW 587081X GW 548118X FR226928 FR 240662 FR252384 1229U91 GI 264879A CGP71683A LY 377897 PD 160170 SR 120562A SR 120819A and JCF 104 9 melanin concentrating hormone MCH receptor antagonists 10 melanin concentrating hormone 1 receptor MCH1R antagonists such as T 226296 Takeda 11 melanin concentrating hormone 2 receptor MCH2R agonist antagonists 12 orexin 1 receptor antagonists such as SB 334867 A 13 melanocortin agonists such as Melanotan II 14 other Mc4r melanocortin 4 receptor agonists such as CHIR86036 Chiron ME 10142 and ME 10145 Melacure CHIR86036 Chiron PT 141 and PT 14 Palatin 15 5HT 2 agonists 16 5HT2C serotonin receptor 2C agonists such as BVT933 DPCA37215 WAY161503 and R 1065 17 galanin antagonists 18 CCK agonists 19 CCK A cholecystokinin A agonists such as AR R 15849 GI 181771 JMV 180 A 71378 A 71623 and SR146131 20 GLP 1 agonists 21 corticotropin releasing hormone agonists 22 histamine receptor 3 H3 modulators 23 histamine receptor 3 H3 antagonists inverse agonists such as hioperamide 3 1H imidazol 4 yl propyl N 4 pentenyl carbamate clobenpropit iodophenpropit imoproxifan and GT2394 Gliatech 24 hydroxy steroid dehydrogenase 1 inhibitors 11 HSD 1 inhibitors such as BVT 3498 and BVT 2733 2S PDE phosphodiesterase inhibitors such as theophylline pentoxifylline zaprinast sildenafil aminone milrinone cilostamide rolipram and cilomilast 26 phosphodiesterase 3B PDE3B inhibitors 27 NE norepinephrine transport inhibitors such as GW 320659 despiramine talsupram and nomifensine 28 ghrelin receptor antagonists 29 leptin including recombinant human leptin PEG OB Hoffman La Roche and recombinant methionyl human leptin Amgen 30 leptin derivatives 31 BRS3 bombesin receptor subtype 3 agonists such as D Phe6 beta Ala11 Phe13 Nle14 Bn 6 14 and D Phe6 Phe13 Bn 6 13 propylamide 32 CNTF Ciliary neurotrophic factors such as GI 181771 Glaxo SmithKline SR146131 Sanofi Synthelabo butabindide PD170 292 and PD 149164 Pfizer 33 CNTF derivatives such as axokine Regeneron 34 monoamine reuptake inhibitors such as sibutramine 35 UCP 1 uncoupling protein 1 2 or 3 activators such as phytanic acid 4 E 2 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 5 5 8 8 tetramethyl 2 napthalenyl 1 propenyl benzoic acid TTNPB and retinoic acid 36 thyroid hormone agonists such as KB 2611 KaroBioBMS 37 FAS fatty acid synthase inhibitors such as Cerulenin and C75 38 DGAT1 diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 inhibitors 39 DGAT2 diacylglycerol acyltransferase 2 inhibitors 40 ACC2 acetyl CoA carboxylase 2 inhibitors 41 glucocorticoid antagonists 42 acyl estrogens such as oleoyl estrone 43 dicarboxylate transporter inhibitors 44 peptide YY PYY 3 36 peptide YY analogs derivatives and fragments such as BIM 43073D BIM 43004C 4S Neuropeptide Y2 NPY2 receptor agonists such NPY3 36 N acetyl Leu 28 31 NPY 24 36 TASP V and cyclo 28 32 Ac Lys28 Glu32 25 36 pNPY 46 Neuropeptide Y4 NPY4 agonists such as pancreatic peptide PP 47 Neuropeptide Y1 NPY1 antagonists such as BIBP3226 J 115814 BIBO 3304 LY 357897 CP 671906 and GI 264879A 48 Opioid antagonists such as nalmefene Revex 3 methoxynaltrexone naloxone and naltrexone 49 glucose transporter inhibitors 50 phosphate transporter inhibitors 51 5 HT serotonin inhibitors 52 beta blockers 53 Neurokinin 1 receptor antagonists NK 1 antagonists 54 clobenzorex 55 cloforex 56 clominorex 57 clortermine 58 cyclexedrine 59 dextroamphetamine 60 diphemethoxidine 61 N ethylamphetamine 62 fenbutrazate 63 fenisorex 64 fenproporex 65 fludorex 66 fluminorex 67 furfurylmethylamphetamine 68 levamfetamine 69 levophacetoperane 70 mefenorex 71 metamfepramone 72 methamphetamine 73 norpseudoephedrine 74 pentorex 75 phendimetrazine 76 phenmetrazine 77 picilorex 78 phytopharm 57 79 zonisamide 80 a minorex 81 amphechloral 82 amphetamine 83 benzphetamine and 84 chlorphentermine.

The combination therapies described above which use the compounds of Formula I or Formula Ia may also be useful in the treatment of the metabolic syndrome. According to one widely used definition a patient having metabolic syndrome is characterized as having three or more symptoms selected from the following group of five symptoms 1 abdominal obesity 2 hypertriglyceridemia 3 low high density lipoprotein cholesterol HDL 4 high blood pressure and 5 elevated fasting glucose which may be in the range characteristic of Type 2 diabetes if the patient is also diabetic. Each of these symptoms is defined clinically in the Third Report of the National Cholesterol Education Program Expert Panel on Detection Evaluation and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in Adults Adult Treatment Panel III or ATP III National Institutes of Health 2001 NIH Publication No. 01 3670. Patients with metabolic syndrome have an increased risk of developing the macrovascular and microvascular complications that are listed above including atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease. The combinations described above may ameliorate more than one symptom of metabolic syndrome concurrently e.g. two symptoms three symptoms four symptoms or all five of the symptoms .

First low density lipoprotein LDL Meridian was biotinylated by incubating LDL with biotin for 1 hour on ice after which it was dialyzed to remove free biotin. Then compounds at varying concentrations were incubated with 15 nM CETP reagent production group In Vitro Pharmacology MRL Rahway and 50 ug ml of the biotinylated LDL in 50 mM HEPES 150 mM NaCl pH 7.4 for 1 hour at 37 C. The reaction was started by adding H cholesterol ester high density lipoprotein HDL American Radiochemicals Corp at a concentration of 0.6 nM. The reaction proceeded for 2 hours at 37 C. after which time it was quenched by the addition of 12 acetic acid. PVT streptavadin coated scintillation proximity beads which had been brought to room temperature were then added at a concentration of 4 mg ml. The assay was then mixed and counted after one half hour in a Microbeta plate reader.

Reagents and sources are 3H cholesteryl oleate GE TRK.886 3H Triolein Perkin Elmer NET 431 Butylated hydroxyl toluene Aldrich D4740 4 DOPC Sigma P6354 Sodium Bromide Fisher scientific S255 500 PEG 8000 Fisher BP233 1 and human HDL Intracel Corp RP 036 .

An in vitro assay for determining IC s to identify compounds that inhibit CETP transfer activity is performed based on a modification of a published method Morton and Zilversmit 1981 A plasma inhibitor of triglyceride and cholesteryl ester transfer activities J. Biol. Chem. 256 23 11992 11995 . The ability of inhibitors to alter CETP activity is performed using two different assays one using recombinant CETP and one using an endogenous plasma source of CETP. Both assays measure the transfer of 3H cholesteryl oleate or 3H triolein from exogenous LDL to HDL.

Radiolabeled donor particles are generated by first combining 100 l of 200 M butylated hydroxyl toluene in CHCl 216 L of 21.57 mM DOPC in EtOH and either 500 Ci 3H triolein Perkin Elmer NET 431 or 500 Ci 3H cholesteryl oleate GE TRK886 in a glass tube. Reagents are mixed dried under nitrogen and then resuspended in 2 mL of 50 mM Tris 27 M EDTA at pH 7.4. After a brief vortex the solution is sonicated until clear and mixed with 20 mL of fresh human serum. The mixture is incubated overnight at 37 C. The 3H labeled LDL substrate is separated at 1.063 g ml density by sequential ultracentrifugal flotation in NaBr according to the method of Havel Eder et al. 1955 and Chapman Goldstein et al. 1981. Once isolated the particles are dialyzed 3 in CETP buffer 50 mM Tris pH 7.4 100 mM NaCl 1 mM EDTA . Human HDL is purchased from Intracel and used as the acceptor particles.

Transfer assays are performed in a 96 well v bottom polypropylene plate. For the RTA using recombinant CETP 2 RTA an assay cocktail is prepared with the final concentrations 128 g mL HDL 20 nM rCETP 2 human serum and 1 CETP buffer. 1 L of each test compound diluted in DMSO is added to 47 L of assay cocktail per well and incubated at 37 C. for 1 hour. To initiate the transfer reaction 2 L radiolabeled LDL is added. After an additional 60 min of incubation at 37 C. the transfer action is terminated by precipitation of LDL with an equal volume of 20 WN PEG 8000. The plates are centrifuged at 2000 rpm for 30 minutes at 4 C. A 40 L aliquot of the HDL containing supernatant is transferred to a Packard Optiplate with 200 L of MicroScint 20. After mixing plates are counted by liquid scintillation. Counts present in the supernatant for blanks wells containing only HDL acceptor CETP buffer and DMSO are subtracted from those containing test compounds and used to correct for non specific transfer.

For the transfer assay using endogenous CETP from serum 95 RTA the same procedure is used except that human serum is added such that a final concentration of serum of 95 of the total assay volume is achieved yielding a concentration of approximately 15 nM endogenous CETP in the assay. This is then combined with HDL and CETP buffer and the reaction proceeds as above and is terminated as described.

Comparison of the counts of samples with inhibitors to an uninhibited DMSO only positive control yield a percent inhibition. A plot of percent inhibition vs. log of inhibitor concentration fit to a Sigmoidal 4 parameter equation is used to calculate IC50.

The following schemes and examples are provided so that the invention will be more fully appreciated and understood. These examples are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting the invention in any way. The claims appended hereto define the scope of the invention.

Starting materials are commercially available or are made using known procedures or as shown below. The examples may be synthesized using the general schemes provided below. The data reported for the examples below were obtained using the RTA assay in 95 human serum. The IC50 s for the examples using this assay are in the range of about 44 1742 nM. Preferred compounds have an IC50 less than about 500 nM. More preferred compounds have an IC50 less than about 100 nM. When compounds of Formula I or Formula Ia are mentioned herein such compounds include compounds defined generically by Formula I or Ia and also the specific examples disclosed herein.

The examples were synthesized according to the general schemes shown below. Synthetic intermediates for making the compounds are made as described below and are illustrated in the following schemes. The various starting materials used in the schemes are commercially available or are readily made by persons skilled in the art.

Intermediate A is prepared from a chiral auxiliary controlled aldol reaction from commercially available starting materials Scheme A1 . Treatment of the aldol product with hydrazine and subsequent diazotization and Curtius rearrangement provides Intermediate A Wang et al. Tetrahedron 2009 65 6291 6303 . Alternatively Intermediate A can be prepared via treatment of N Boc allylamine with sec butyllithium followed by ZnClto provide a dilithiated reagent that readily reacts with a known aldehyde Resek J. E. Beak P. Tetrahedron Letters 1993 34 3043 Scheme A . Subsequent treatment with sodium hydride results in the synthesis of Intermediate A.

Step 1 To a stirred solution of 4S 4 phenyl 1 3 oxazolidin 2 one 12 g 73.5 mmol in THF 200 mL was added n BuLi 2.5 M 29.4 mL 73.5 mmol dropwise via a syringe at 78 C. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 5 minutes before 2E but 2 enoyl chloride 8.46 mL 88.0 mmol was added dropwise via a syringe. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature and was quenched by addition of brine 100 mL and water 100 mL . A mixture of ethyl acetate and hexanes 1 2 100 mL was added to partition the mixture and the organics were separated dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The resultant oil was recrystallized in 5 ethyl acetate in hexanes after seeding with crystals obtained from earlier batches to yield 4S 3 2E but 2 enoyl 4 phenyl 1 3 oxazolidin 2 one 15.7 g 67.9 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.4 m 6H 5.5 m 1H 4.73 t J 8.8 Hz 1H 4.30 m 1H 1.97 dd J 6.8 1.5 Hz 3H .

Step 2 To 4S 3 2E but 2 enoyl 4 phenyl 1 3 oxazolidin 2 one 13.8 g 59.7 mmol in DCM 100 mL was added TiCl 1M in DCM 59.7 mL 59.7 mmol at 10 C. The resulting reaction solution was transferred by cannula to a flask containing DIPEA 11.26 mL 64.5 mmol and DCM 100 mL at 10 C. NMP 11.49 mL 119 mmol was added via a syringe and the reaction mixture was aged for 1 hour before cooling to 40 C. 3 5 Bis trifluoromethyl benzaldehyde 17.3 g 71.6 mmol in DCM 25 mL was added via a syringe and the reaction was allowed to warm to 0 C. over 1.5 hr. The reaction was quenched by addition of acetic acid 15 mL saturated Rochelle s salt 50 mL and HCl 1.0 M 200 mL . The organic was separated and the aqueous was back extracted with DCM 50 mL . The organics were combined washed with HCl 1.0 M 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The resultant oil was purified by column chromatography to give 4S 3 2S 2 5 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl hydroxy methyl but 3 enoyl 4 phenyl 1 3 oxazolidin 2 one 20 g 42.3 mmol as crystalline solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.86 s 2H 7.83 s 1H 7.4 m 5H 5.7 m 1H 5.4 m 1H 5.31 d J 10.3 Hz 1H 5.28 d J 3.9 Hz 1H 5.10 d J 17.3 Hz 1H 4.8 m 1H 4.7 t J 9.0 Hz 1H 4.3 m 1H .

Step 3 4S 3 2S 2 S 3 5 Bis trifluoromethyl phenyl hydroxy methyl but 3 enoyl 4 phenyl 1 3 oxazolidin 2 one 20 g 42.5 mmol and hydrazine 2.71 g 85 mmol in THF 100 mL was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate hexanes 2 1 200 mL and was partitioned with water 100 mL . The organic was washed with brine 100 mL and was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was triturated with IPA 30 mL to remove the chiral auxiliary. The filtrate was concentrated to yield 2S 2 S 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl hydroxy methyl but 3 enehydrazide 14.5 g 42.4 mmol which was used without further purification. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.81 s 3H 7.83 s 1H 7.0 br s 1H 5.9 m 1H 5.42 d J 3.3 Hz 1H 5.29 d J 10.3 Hz 1H 5.03 d J 17.1 Hz 1H 3.1 dd J 9.4 3.5 Hz 1H .

Step 4 2S 2 S 3 5 Bis trifluoromethyl phenyl hydroxy methyl but 3 enehydrazide 14.5 g 42.4 mmol was dissolved in IPA 100 mL and HCl 4N in dioxane 20 mL . tert Butyl nitrite 5.24 g 50.8 mmol in IPA 20 mL was added via a syringe pump at 50 C. over 1 hr. The reaction mixture was stirred at 50 C. and additional hour and the volatiles were removed. The crude mixture was dissolved in ethyl acetate 150 mL washed with aqueous NaCO 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The resultant oil was purified by column chromatography to yield 4S 5R 5 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 4 ethenyl 1 3 oxazolidin 2 one 7 g 21.52 mmol as light yellow crystalline solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.90 s 1H 7.82 s 2H 5.91 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 5.2 m 3H 4.7 m 1H .

Step 1 To N Boc allylamine 50.0 g 0.318 mol in anhydrous THF 800 mL at 78 C. was added sec butyllithium 1.30 M in cyclohexane 538.0 mL 0.7 mol dropwise under a stream of Ngas. The resulting yellow solution was stirred at 78 C. for an additional 2 hours after which time ZnCl 1.1 M in EtO 349.8 mL 0.35 mol was added. The solution was stirred for 1 hour before 3 5 bis trifluoromethylbenzaldehyde 169.3 g 0.700 mol was added to the clear solution. The mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1 hour before quenching with acetic acid 227 mL . The reaction was poured into ice water 2 L and the organic layer was washed with aqueous saturated NaHCO 2 L 2 and brine 1 L was dried MgSO and concentrated. The crude material was recrystallized from petroleum ether 300 mL to yield tert butyl 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 1 hydroxybut 3 en 2 ylcarbamate 57 g as a white powder. In total this process yielded 2.8 kg of material. MS ESI calc d. for CHFNO M H 400.1 found 400.0.

Step 2 At 0 C. under N NaH 20 g 0.500 mol was added slowly to the mixture of tert butyl 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 1 hydroxybut 3 en 2 ylcarbamate 100 g 0.250 mol in anhydrous THF 1.5 L while stirring. After the addition the mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour then at 80 C. for 2 6 hrs. Caution The mixture was stirred and heated at 80 C. for 0.5 1 hour of bubbling . The resulting mixture was cooled to 0 C. and MeOH 0.1 L and ice water 0.2 L was added carefully to quench the reaction. The mixture was concentrated and then diluted with ethyl acetate 2 L washed with water 0.5 L 3 brine 0.5 L dried and concentrated to give a black oil. Flash chromatography on silica gel yielded the crude product which was recrystallized from ethyl acetate dichloromethane and petroleum ether to provide cis 5 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 4 ethenyl 1 3 oxazolidin 2 one 25 g as a white solid. The resultant solid was separated by chiral SFC column OJ 250 mm 50 mm 10 um mobile phase A supercritical CO B IPA A B 85 15 at 230 mL min column temp 38 C. nozzle pressure 100 bar nozzle temp 60 C. evaporator temp 20 C. trimmer temp 25 C. wavelength 220 nm . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.30 s 1H 8.10 s 1H 7.93 s 2H 6.05 6.03 d 1H 5.27 5.11 m 2H 4.99 4.97 d 1H 4.76 4.73 t 1H .

In Scheme B A is CH or N where the H of CH can be substituted. The synthesis of Intermediate B begins with a known or prepared aldehyde treated with vinyl Grignard and the resultant alkoxide being directly protected as a carbonate. The carbonate is then reacted under Ir catalysis Hartwig et al. 2010 132 8918 8920 with Intermediate A to provide a substrate for ring closing metathesis to form the bicyclic core Intermediate B1 . Subsequent reduction provides Intermediate B2. B2 is converted to the corresponding boronic ester intermediate B3 via a Pd catalyzed coupling reaction.

Step 1a To 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethylbenzaldehyde 20 g 99 mmol in THF 50 mL was added vinyl magnesium bromide 1.0 M 128 mL 128 mmol via a syringe addition at 0 C. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and was stirred for 30 min. The reaction was quenched with the careful dropwise addition of ethyl chloroformate 10.7 g 99 mmol . After stirring for 30 minutes the reaction was diluted with hexane 100 mL and was partitioned with aqueous saturated NHCl. The organic was further washed with HCl 1.0 M in water 50 mL then brine 30 mL before drying over sodium sulfate filtering and concentrating to dryness. The crude material was purified by column chromatography to yield 1 2 bromo 5 fluorophenyl prop 2 en 1 yl ethyl carbonate 14.5 g 47.8 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.56 m 1H 7.24 m 1H 6.97 m 1H 6.43 d J 5.5 Hz 1H 6.01 m 1H 5.35 5.42 m 2H 4.28 m 2H 1.38 m 3H .

Step 2 To a 500 mL RBF was added 1 2 bromo 5 fluorophenyl prop 2 en 1 yl ethyl carbonate 10.4 g 29.5 mmol 4S 5R 5 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 4 ethenyl 1 3 oxazolidin 2 one 4 g 12.3 mmol DCM 20 mL and the Helmchen dibenzo a e cyclooctatetraene dbcot iridium phosphoramidite catalyst complex 407 mg 0.369 mmol Helmchen et al 2010 16 6601 6615 . The reaction was stirred at 33 C. for 2 days open to air. The reaction was filtered over Celite and purified by column chromatography to yield 4S 5R 5 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 1S 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl prop 2 en 1 yl 4 ethenyl 1 3 oxazolidin 2 one 4.5 g 7.65 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.86 m 2H 7.68 s 2H 7.64 s 1H 7.54 d J 6.5 Hz 1H 6.22 m 1H 5.75 m 2H 5.43 m 2H 5.20 m 1H 5.03 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 4.8 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 4.1 m 1H .

Step 3 To a 100 mL RBF equipped with a reflux condenser was added 4S 5R 5 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 1S 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl prop 2 en 1 yl 4 ethenyl 1 3 oxazolidin 2 one 4.5 g 7.65 mmol and toluene 20 mL . The system was flushed with nitrogen and 1 3 bis 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl 4 5 dihydroimidazol 2 ylidene 2 i propoxy 5 N N dimethylaminosulfonyl phenyl methyleneruthenium II dichloride 274 mg 0.374 mmol Zhan catalyst 1B was added. The reaction mixture was heated at 60 C. for 2 hours. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the resultant oil was purified by column chromatography to yield 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 7a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 3 one Intermediate B1 4.0 g 7.14 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.95 s 1H 7.79 s 2H 7.76 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 7.60 s 1H 7.47 d J 8.2 Hz 1H 6.34 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 6.17 s H 6.12 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 5.46 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 5.29 d J 4.8 Hz 1H .

Step 4 To 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 7a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 3 one 3.0 g 5.36 mmol in ethanol 10 mL was added Wilkinson s catalyst Rh PPh Cl 495 mg 0.536 mmol . The mixture was placed on a Parr shaker under an atmosphere of hydrogen gas at 40 psi overnight. Upon completion the solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the resultant oil was purified by column chromatography to yield 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl tetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 3 one Intermediate B2 3.0 g 5.34 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.93 s 1H 7.87 s 2H 7.73 m 2H 7.44 d J 2 Hz 1H 6.14 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 6.12 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 5.35 m 1H 4.63 m 1H 3.03 m 1H 1.69 m 1H 1.25 m 2H .

Step 5 To a 40 mL vial in glove box were added 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl tetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 3 one intermediate B2 2.0 g 3.56 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 1.84 g 7.11 mmol potassium acetate 0.87 g 8.9 mmol 1 1 bis di tert butylphosphino ferrocene palladium dichloride 0.122 g 0.178 mmol and 20 mL dimethylacetamide. The vial was sealed and heated at 80 C. for 20 hrs. Reaction mixture was diluted with methyl tButyl ether washed with 15 NaCl aqueous solution. Organics were treated with metal scavenger resin and concentrated. Crude product was purified by column chromatography to yield 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 2 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 5 trifluoromethyl phenyptetrahydropyrrolo 1 2 c oxazol 3 1H one Intermediate B3 1.65 g 2.71 mmol . MS ESI calc d. for CHBFNO M H 610.2 found 610.2.

The following intermediates in Table 1 were prepared according to Scheme B using the procedures outlined in the syntheses of Intermediates B1 B2 and B3 utilizing commercially available or known aldehydes in Step 1. In some cases Step 3 can be carried out using the Hoyveda Grubbs second generation catalyst or Schrock s catalyst. Additionally Step 4 may be carried out using Rh C as the catalyst. For Intermediates B11 and B13 aldehyde starting materials 2 bromo 3 methyl 5 trifluoromethyl benzaldehyde and 5 bromo 2 trifluoromethyl isonicotinaldehyde were synthesized based on the following schemes.

To a 100 mL round bottom flask were added 2 2 6 6 tetramethylpiperidine 2.8 mL 16.6 mmol and 50 mL THF. BuLi 9.5 mL 15.2 mmol 1.6 M hexane solution was added via a syringe at 0 C. After stirring at 0 C. for 15 mins ice bath was replaced with dry ice ether bath. To another 25 mL round bottom flask was added 1 bromo 2 methyl 4 trifluoromethyl benzene 3.3 g 13.8 mmol and THF. After cooling with dry ice acetone bath this solution was cannular transferred to the first flask rapidly. Upon completion of transferring DMF 2.1 mL 27.6 mmol was added immediately and the resulting reaction mixture was stirred at that temperature for 10 more minutes before it was allowed to warm to 20 C. slowly. The reaction was quenched at 20 C. with addition of 50 mL 1N HCl. This mixture was diluted with 100 mL water and extracted with 100 mL EtOAc hexane 1 9. The organics were washed with 30 mL NaHCO3 aqueous solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Crude product was purified by chromatography to give 1.8 g 2 bromo 3 methyl 5 trifluoromethyl benzaldehyde. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 10.50 s 1H 8.03 d J 1.4 Hz 1H 7.75 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 2.60 s 3H .

Step 1 To 5 bromo 2 trifluoromethyl isonicotinic acid 20 g 74.1 mmol N O dimethylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 10.84 g 111 mmol and DIPEA 38.8 mL 222 mmol in DMF 100 mL was added 2 4 6 tripropyl 1 3 5 2 4 6 trioxatriphosphinane 2 4 6 trioxide 53.4 mL 89 mmol at 0 C. by a dropping funnel over a period of 10 minutes. The reaction was stirred for 2 hours. The reaction was concentrated to half the amount and was diluted with EtOAc. The organic was partitioned with satd. NHCl and then with brine. The organic was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. 5 bromo N methoxy N methyl 2 trifluoromethyl pyridine 4 carboxamide 21 g 67.1 mmol was carried forward as a crude oil. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.90 s 1H 7.63 s 1H 3.44 s 3H 3.55 s 3H .

Step 2 To 5 bromo N methoxy N methyl 2 trifluoromethyl pyridine 4 carboxamide 21 g 67.1 mmol in THF 200 mL was added DIBAL H in toluene 1M 73.8 mL 73.8 mmol through a syringe at 78 C. The reaction was stirred for 40 minutes while it was warmed to 10 C. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc 100 mL and was quenched with 1N HCl solution 150 mL . The reaction mixture was filtered on a Celite and silica gel bed. The layers were separated and the organic layer was partitioned with saturated. NaHCOand then brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude reaction was purified by column chromatography to yield 5 bromo 2 trifluoromethyl pyridine 4 carbaldehyde 13.1 g 51.6 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 10.2 s 1H 9.04 s 1H 8.84 s 1H .

Preparation of Intermediate C is carried out via a Suzuki coupling reaction of a commercially available bromide and boronic ester to yield the desired product.

To 1 bromo 3 methyl 5 trifluoromethyl benzene 500 mg 2.51 mmol was added THF 5 mL aqueous tribasic potassium phosphate 2.0 M 4.18 mL 8.37 mmol 2 ethenyl 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 387 mg 2.51 mmol palladium II acetate 47 mg 0.209 mmol and 1 1 bis di t butylphosphino ferrocene 99 mg 0.209 mmol . The system was flushed with nitrogen gas and was heated at 80 C. for 1 hour. The reaction was filtered and then diluted with ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by preparative TLC to yield 1 ethenyl 3 methyl 5 trifluoromethyl benzene 300 mg 1.61 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.47 s 1H 7.40 s 1H 7.34 s 1H 6.76 m 1H 5.85 d J 17.6 Hz 1H 2.43 s 1H .

The synthesis of Intermediate D is from a known or prepared aldehyde which is condensed with a chiral sulfinamide auxiliary. Reaction with a prepared Grignard and subsequent deprotection yields an enantioenriched benzylic amine. Protection of the amine and cross metathesis with a known or prepared styrene provides the precursor olefin for the Shi epoxidation Shi et al Chem. Rev. 2008 108 3958 3987 . Base mediated cyclization provides Intermediate D with high diastereoselectivity.

Step 1 To a 250 mL RBF was added R 2 methyl 2 propanesulfinamide 3.16 g 26.1 mmol 2 bromo 5 trifluorobenzaldehyde 6.0 g 23.7 mmol and THF 20 mL . Titanium IV ethoxide 10.8 g 47.4 mmol was added dropwise via a syringe before heating the reaction at 40 C. for 1 hour. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and water 100 mL and ethyl acetate 100 mL were added. The organic was stirred with brine for 15 min and was filtered to remove solids. The organic was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated before purifying by column chromatography to yield N E 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl methylidene 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 8.0 g 22.5 mmol as a colorless crystalline solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.72 m 2H 7.44 m 3H 6.06 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 5.33 t J 8 Hz 1H 4.57 m 1H 2.99 m 1H 2.48 s 3H 1.68 m 1H 1.59 m 1H 1.38 m 1H .

Step 2 To a 100 mL three neck RBF equipped with stir bar and condenser was added Mg excess catalytic iodine THF 20 mL followed by 4 bromobut 1 ene 4.55 g 33.7 mmol in small increments. The mixture was heated to 40 C. for 1 hour. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and the freshly made Grignard reagent was added via syringe into a 250 mL RBF with N E 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl methylidene 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 8.0 g 22.5 mmol in THF 100 mL . Upon completion the reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and partitioned with ethyl acetate. The organic was dried over sodium sulfate filtered concentrated and purified by column chromatography to yield N 1S 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl pent 4 en 1 yl 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 6.0 g 14.6 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.72 m 2H 7.42 d J 8.2 Hz 1H 5.87 m 1H 5.13 m 2H 5.02 m 1H 2.24 m 1H 2.18 m 1H 2.08 m 1H 1.98 m 1H 1.27 s 9H .

Step 3 To N 1S 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl pent 4 en 1 yl 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 6.0 g 14.6 mmol in methanol 80 mL was added HCl 4 N in dioxanes 25.5 mL 102 mmol . The reaction was stirred overnight at room temperature and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The resulting oil was partitioned with ethyl acetate and was washed with 10 aqueous potassium hydroxide. The organic was dried over sodium sulfate and was concentrated. 1S 1 2 Bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl pent 4 en 1 amine 4.4 g 14.3 mmol was carried forward without further purification. MS ESI calc d. for CHBrFN M H 308.0 and 310.0 found 308.0 and 310.0.

Step 4 To DIPEA 7.48 mL 42.8 mmol and 1S 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl pent 4 en 1 amine 4.4 g 14.3 mmol in DCM 20 mL was added benzyl chloroformate at 0 C. The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours and was quenched with water. The organic was washed with 10 aqueous KOH and the aqueous was back extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organics were dried over sodium sulfate filtered concentrated and then purified by column chromatography to yield benzyl 1S 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl pent 4 en 1 ylcarbamate 5.8 g 13.1 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.72 m 1H 7.58 s 1H 7.39 b 5H 7.1 m 1H 5.83 m 1H 5.3 b 1H 5.15 m 3H 2.22 m 1H 2.18 m 1H 1.95 m 1H 1.78 m 1H .

Step 5 To a 100 mL RBF equipped with a reflux condenser was added benzyl 1S 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl pent 4 en 1 ylcarbamate 0.5 g 1.13 mmol 1 ethenyl 3 methyl 5 trifluoromethyl benzene 421 mg 2.26 mmol and dichloromethane 10 mL . The system was flushed with nitrogen and 1 3 bis 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl 4 5 dihydroimidazol 2 ylidene 2 i propoxy 5 N N dimethylaminosulfonyl phenyl methyleneruthenium II dichloride 41 mg 0.57 mmol Zhan catalyst 1B was added before heating at 60 C. for 20 min. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and was directly purified by column chromatography to yield benzyl 1R 4E 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 3 methyl 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl pent 4 en 1 ylcarbamate 500 mg 0.833 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.72 m 1H 7.58 s 1H 7.39 b 5H 6.4 d J 8.2 Hz 1H 6.25 m 1H 5.35 m 1H 5.20 m 1H 5.10 s 2H 2.40 s 3H 2.19 m 1H 2.05 m 1H 1.95 m 1H 1.78 m 1H .

Step 6 To a 250 mL RBF was added tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate 28 mg 0.083 mmol D Epoxone 215 mg 0.833 mmol benzyl 1R 4E 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 3 methyl 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl pent 4 en 1 ylcarbamate 500 mg 0.833 mmol followed by MeCN 7 mL and EtOAc 6 mL . Sodium tetraborate decahydrate 318 mg 0.833 mmol in an aqueous ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid disodium salt dihydrate solution 0.4 mM 7 mL was added to the reaction at 0 C. A solution of potassium carbonate 1.51 g 8.33 mmol in water 7 mL and a solution of OXONE 1.54 g 2.50 mmol in an aqueous ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid disodium salt dihydrate 0.4 mM 7 mL were simultaneously added to the reaction at 0 C. over the course of two hours. An additional solution of D Epoxone 107 mg 0.417 mmol in MeCN 3 mL was added via syringe pump over 1.5 hours. The reaction was diluted with water 100 mL and was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The organic was concentrated and purified by column chromatography to yield benzyl 1S 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 2R 3R 3 3 methyl 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl oxiran 2 ylpropyl carbamate 300 mg 0.487 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.73 m 1H 7.56 s 1H 7.38 7.42 b 5H 5.47 m 1H 5.21 m 1H 5.12 s 2H 3.67 s 1H 3.02 s 1H 2.42 s 3H 2.10 m 1H 1.99 m 2H 1.76 m 1H .

Step 7 To benzyl 1S 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 2R 3R 3 3 methyl 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl oxiran 2 ylpropyl carbamate 100 mg 0.162 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added LiHMDS 1.0 M 0.324 mL 0.324 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The resultant residue was purified by preparative TLC to yield 1R 5S 7aS 5 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl 1 3 methyl 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl tetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 3 one 75 mg 0.148 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.72 m 2H 7.46 s 1H 7.44 d J 8.8 Hz 3H 6.06 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 5.33 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.57 m 1H 2.99 m 1H 2.48 s 3H 1.68 m 1H 1.57 m 1H 1.38 m 1H .

The following intermediates in Table 2 were prepared according to Scheme D using the procedure outlined in the synthesis of Intermediate D1 utilizing commercially available or known aldehydes in Step 1. In addition to LiHMDS an alternative base that can be used in Step 7 is DBU.

Step 1 To a 100 mL three neck RBF equipped with stir bar and condenser was added Mg excess catalytic iodine THF 20 mL followed by 5 bromopent 1 ene 1.93 g 12.9 mmol added in small increments. The mixture was heated to 40 C. for 1 hour. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and the freshly made Grignard reagent was added via syringe into a 250 mL RBF with N E 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl methylidene 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 2.3 g 6.5 mmol in THF 20 mL . Upon completion the reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and partitioned with ethyl acetate. The organic was dried over sodium sulfate filtered concentrated and purified by column chromatography to yield N 1S 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl hex 5 en 1 yl 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 1.5 g 3.5 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.71 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.63 s 1H 7.41 d J 6.4 Hz 1H 5.77 m 1H 5.03 m 2H 4.87 m 1H 3.65 m 1H 2.11 m 2H 1.86 m 1H 1.82 m 1H 1.55 m 1H 1.40 m 1H 1.22 s 9H .

Step 2 To N 1S 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl hex 5 en 1 yl 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 1.5 g 3.5 mmol was added HCl 4 N in dioxanes 6.16 mL 24.6 mmol . The reaction was stirred overnight at room temperature and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The resultant oil was partitioned with ethyl acetate and was washed with 10 aqueous potassium hydroxide. The organic was dried over sodium sulfate and was concentrated. 1S 1 2 Bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl hex 5 en 1 amine 1.11 g 3.45 mmol was carried forward without further purification. MS ESI calc d. for CHBrFN M H 322.0 and 324.0 found 322.2 and 324.2.

Step 3 To DIPEA 1.81 mL 10.3 mmol and 1S 1 2 Bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl hex 5 en 1 amine 1.11 g 3.45 mmol in DCM 20 mL was added benzyl chloroformate at 0 C. The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours and was quenched with water. The organic was washed with 10 aqueous KOH and the aqueous layer was back extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organics were dried over sodium sulfate filtered concentrated and then purified by column chromatography to benzyl 1S 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl hex 5 en 1 ylcarbamate 1.5 g 3.29 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.71 m 1H 7.69 s 1H 7.39 7.29 b 6H 5.81 m 1H 5.28 m 1H 5.14 s 2H 5.08 m 2H 2.16 m 2H 1.84 m 1H 1.68 m 1H 1.59 m 1H 1.51 m 1H .

Step 4 To a 100 mL RBF equipped with a reflux condenser was added benzyl 1S 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl hex 5 en 1 ylcarbamate 1.5 g 3.29 mmol 1 ethenyl 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl benzene 1.58 g 6.57 mmol and dichloromethane 10 mL . The system was flushed with nitrogen and 1 3 bis 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl 4 5 dihydroimidazol 2 ylidene 2 i propoxy 5 N N dimethylaminosulfonyl phenyl methyleneruthenium II dichloride 41 mg 0.57 mmol was added before heating at 60 C. for 20 min. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and was directly purified by column chromatography to yield benzyl 1R 5E 6 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl hex 5 en 1 ylcarbamate 2.0 g 2.99 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.81 s 1H 7.67 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 7.37 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 5.82 m 1H 5.05 m 2H 4.41 m 1H 3.82 s 1H 2.13 m 2H 1.76 m 1H 1.42 m 1H .

Step 5 To a 250 mL RBF was added tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate 97 mg 0.284 mmol D Epoxone 370 mg 1.43 mmol benzyl 1R 5E 6 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl hex 5 en 1 ylcarbamate 1.9 g 2.84 mmol followed by MeCN 15 mL and EtOAc 20 mL . Sodium tetraborate decahydrate 1.08 g 2.84 mmol in an aqueous ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid disodium salt dihydrate solution 0.4 mM 7 mL was added to the reaction at 0 C. A solution of potassium carbonate 3.93 g 28.4 mmol in water 25 mL and a solution of OXONE 5.24 g 8.53 mmol in an aqueous ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid disodium salt dihydrate 0.4 mM 25 mL were simultaneously added to the reaction at 0 C. over the course of two hours. An additional solution of D Epoxone 370 mg 1.43 mmol in MeCN 3 mL was added via syringe pump over 1.5 hours. The reaction was diluted with water 100 mL and was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The organic was concentrated to yield a white solid that was resubjected to the reaction procedure. Benzyl 1S 4 2S 3S 3 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl oxiran 2 yl 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl butylcarbamate 1.5 g 2.19 mmol was isolated by column chromatography. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.81 s 1H 7.75 s 2H 7.59 s 1H 7.42 m 2H 5.3 m 1H 5.19 m 1H 5.15 s 2H 3.78 m 1H 2.98 m 1H 1.95 m 2H 1.82 1.65 br s 2H .

Step 6 To benzyl 1S 4 2S 3S 3 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl oxiran 2 yl 1 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl butylcarbamate 500 mg 0.731 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added DBU 111 mg 0.731 mmol . The system was heated to 125 C. for 6 hours. The solvent was removed in vacuo. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate and water. The organic was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The resultant oil was purified by column chromatography to yield R 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 2S 6S 6 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl piperidin 2 ylmethanol 280 mg 0.509 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.9 s 2H 7.81 d J 5.4 Hz 2H 7.64 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 7.35 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 5.14 d J 8.2 Hz 1H 4.51 m 1H 3.16 m 1H 2.06 m 1H 1.95 m 1H 1.80 m 2H 1.62 m 1H 1.29 m 1H .

Step 7 To R 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 2S 6S 6 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl piperidin 2 ylmethanol 280 mg 0.509 mmol in DCM 5 mL was added DIPEA 0.9 mL 0.509 mmol and phosgene 252 mg 0.509 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes before the solvent was removed and the reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate 15 mL and aqueous KOH 15 mL . The organic was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated before purification by preparative TLC to yield 1R 5S 8aS 5 2 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl 1 3 methyl 5 trifluoromethyl phenyl hexahydro 1 3 oxazolo 3 4 a pyridin 3 one 200 mg 0.347 mmol . MS ESI calc d. for CHBrFNO M H 576.0 and 578.0 found 576.1 and 578.1.

Preparation of Intermediate E is carried out via displacement of an appropriately functionalized Intermediate B D by a commercially available amine.

To Intermediate B4 130 mg 0.245 mmol in THF 0.5 mL was added dimethylamine 2.0 M 3.7 mL 7.4 mmol . The system was sealed and heated to 150 C. by microwave irradiation for 1 hour. The reaction was then directly purified by HPLC to yield 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 5 bromo 2 dimethylamino pyridin 4 yl tetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 3 one 80 mg 0.149 mmol . MS ESI calc d. for CHBrFNO M H 538.0 and 540.0 found 538.0 and 540.0.

The following intermediates in Table 3 were prepared according to Scheme E using the procedure outlined in the synthesis of Intermediate E1.

Preparation of Intermediate F begins with a Suzuki coupling of commercially available starting materials. An iodination followed by a Miyaura borylation yields the desired boronic ester Intermediate F.

Step 1 To a solution of 5 bromo 4 methylpyridine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester 2.207 g 9.59 mmol 4 methoxylphenylboronic acid 1.604 g 10.55 mmol and 1 1 bis di tert butylphosphino ferrocene palladium dichloride 0.313 g 0.480 mmol in THF 30 mL was added potassium carbonate 2.0 M in water 10.1 mL 20.15 mmol . The mixture was purged with nitrogen and heated at 50 C. for 1 hour and at 60 C. for 5 hours. The reaction was poured into ethyl acetate and was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. It was purified by column chromatography to yield methyl 5 4 methoxyphenyl 4 methylpyridine 2 carboxylate 2.47 g 9.59 mmol as a pink solid. MS ESI calc d. for CHNO M H 258.1 found 258.1.

Step 2 A suspension of iodine 2.45 g 9.66 mmol silver sulfate 3.01 g 9.66 mmol and methyl 5 4 methoxyphenyl 4 methylpyridine 2 carboxylate 2.47 g 9.59 mmol in MeOH 20 mL was stirred at room temperature for 3.5 hours. It was then heated at 36 C. for 4 hours and then at room temperature for another 16 hours. Additional iodine 0.8 g 3.15 mmol and silver sulfate 1 g 3.2 mmol were added and the reaction was heated to 36 C. for 3 hours. The volatiles were removed and the reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate and aqueous sodium thiosulfate. The organic was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and then concentrated. The resultant oil was purified by column chromatography to yield methyl 5 3 iodo 4 methoxyphenyl 4 methylpyridine 2 carboxylate 2.35 g 6.12 mmol as a white solid. MS ESI calc d. for CHINO M H 384.0 found 384.0.

Step 3 A solution of 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 0.368 g 0.451 mmol potassium acetate 1.34 g 13.6 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 1.4 g 5.50 mmol and methyl 5 3 iodo 4 methoxyphenyl 4 methylpyridine 2 carboxylate 1.73 g 4.51 mmol in DMSO 20 mL was heated at 80 C. for 80 minutes. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and was poured into ethyl acetate and water. The organic was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude oil was purified by column chromatography to yield methyl 5 4 methoxy 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl 4 methylpyridine 2 carboxylate 1.73 g 4.51 mmol . MS ESI calc d. for CHBNO M H 384.2 found 384.2.

Preparation of Intermediate G was carried out with oxidation of a methylsulfide followed by displacement with dimethylamine. Subsequent oxidation of the alcohol yields the aldehyde Intermediate G.

Step 1 To 5 bromo 2 methylsulfanyl pyrimidin 4 yl methanol 20 g 85 mmol in DCM 100 mL was added m CPBA 41.9 g 187 mmol portionwise at room temperature. The reaction was stirred for 1 hour before dimethylamine 2.0 M 213 mL 425 mmol was added. After 2 hours additional dimethylamine 2.0 M 40 mL 80 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred overnight. The volatiles were removed and the crude oil was dissolved in ethyl acetate washed with water and then brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. 5 Bromo 2 dimethylamino pyrimidin 4 yl methanol 19 g 82 mmol was carried forward as a crude oil. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.29 s 1H 4.60 s 2H 3.22 s 6H .

Step 2 To 5 bromo 2 dimethylamino pyrimidin 4 yl methanol 19 g 82 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added Dess Martin periodinane 41.7 g 98 mmol at room temperature. The reaction was stirred overnight and the reaction was diluted with hexanes filtered and was concentrated before purification by column chromatography to yield 5 bromo 2 dimethylamino pyrimidine 4 carbaldehyde 10 g 43.5 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.95 s 1H 8.52 s 1H 3.24 s 6H .

Intermediate H was prepared via iodination and subsequent Miyaura borylation from commercially available starting materials.

Step 1 A 3 neck 5 L RBF equipped with mechanical stirrer thermometer and a nitrogen bubbler was charged with 3 4 methoxyphenyl propionic acid methyl ester 100 g 515 mmol silver sulfate 161 g 515 mmol and iodine 131 g 515 mmol in methanol 2 L . The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction was filtered through Solka Floc ethyl acetate wash . The filtrate was concentrated and the residue was taken up in ethyl acetate 4 L . The organic was washed with water saturated aq. NaHSO 50 mL and brine 50 mL before drying over NaSO filtering and concentrating to dryness. The crude reaction was purified by column chromatography to yield methyl 3 3 iodo 4 methoxyphenyl propanoate 155 g 484 mmol as a clear oil. MS ESI calc d. for CHIO M H 321.0 found 321.0.

Step 2 A 3 neck 12 L RBF equipped with mechanical stirrer thermometer nitrogen bubbler condenser and addition funnel was charged with methyl 3 3 iodo 4 methoxyphenyl propanoate 155 g 484 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 154 g 605 mmol and potassium acetate 95 g 48.4 mmol in DMSO 3 L and dioxane 0.9 L . The system was degassed three times with nitrogen gas before the addition of dichloro 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II dichloromethane adduct 39.5 g 48.4 mmol . The system was degassed three times and was then heated to 50 C. for 1 hour. The temperature was raised to 80 C. and the reaction was stirred overnight. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate 4 L and was partitioned with water and then with brine. The organic was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude reaction was purified by column chromatography to yield methyl 3 4 methoxy 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl propanoate 108.1 g 338 mmol as a tan solid. MS ESI calc d. for CHBO M H 321.2 found 321.2.

Preparation of Intermediate I begins with formation of a tert butyl ester which is then subjected to a Miyuara coupling to obtain the corresponding boronic ester. Suzuki coupling with a commercially available 5 bromo 3 chloro 2 methoxypyridine yields the coupled chloride. A second Miyaura coupling provides the desired boronic ester Intermediate I.

Step 1 To a 250 mL RBF was added 4 bromo 3 methylbenzoic acid 10 g 46.5 mmol DMAP 8.52 g 69.8 mmol and tert butyl alcohol 100 mL . Di tert butyl dicarbonate 12.96 mL 55.8 mmol was added via a syringe to the solution which caused vigorous bubbling foaming and the loss of some material. The remaining reaction mixture was heated at 70 C. overnight. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and the volatiles were removed under reduced pressure. Crude material was diluted with ethyl acetate hexanes 1 4 200 mL and was washed sequentially with 5 aqueous KOH 200 mL and saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 2 100 mL . The organics were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated before purification by column chromatography. tert Butyl 4 bromo 3 methylbenzoate was isolated as a colorless oil 7.2 g 26.6 mmol . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.87 s 1H 7.67 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 7.60 d J 8.2 Hz 1H 2.47 s 3H 1.62 s 9H .

Step 2 To a 250 mL RBF was added 1 1 bis di tert butylphosphino ferrocene palladium dichloride 0.317 g 0.487 mmol tert butyl 4 bromo 3 methylbenzoate 6.6 g 24.34 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 7.42 g 29.2 mmol potassium acetate 5.97 g 60.9 mmol and dioxane 25 mL . The system was flushed with nitrogen and was heated at 125 C. overnight. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and was diluted with ethyl acetate hexanes 1 9 120 mL and then was washed sequentially with water 150 mL and then brine 50 mL . The organics were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated before purification by column chromatography. tert Butyl 3 methyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl benzoate was isolated as a crystalline solid 6.6 g 14.5 mmol . H NMR indicated it is about 70 pure. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.8 m 3H 2.60 s 3H 1.58 s 9H 1.39 s 12H .

Step 3 To a 250 mL RBF was added 5 bromo 3 chloro 2 methoxypyridine 1.5 g tribasic potassium phosphate 2.86 g 13.5 mmol bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II dichloromethane adduct 0.275 g 6.74 mmol tert butyl 3 methyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl benzoate 2.27 g 7.13 mmol dioxane 50 mL and water 3 mL . The flask was sealed and was stirred at 80 C. overnight. The reaction was cooled to room temperature diluted with ethyl acetate washed with water filtered and concentrated. The resultant residue was purified by column chromatography to yield tert butyl 4 5 chloro 6 methoxypyridin 3 yl 3 methylbenzoate 2.0 g 5.99 mmol . MS ESI calc d. for CHClNO M H 334.1 found 334.0.

Step 4 To a 250 mL RBF was added tert butyl 4 5 chloro 6 methoxypyridin 3 yl 3 methylbenzoate 4.5 g 13.5 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 6.85 g 27.0 mmol potassium acetate 3.97 g 40.4 mmol and chloro 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropyl 1 1 biphenyl 2 2 amino 1 1 biphenyl palladium II 0.212 g 0.27 mmol followed by anhydrous dioxane 50 mL . The system was evacuated and backfilled with nitrogen 3 and was heated to 120 C. for 2 hours. The mixture was cooled filtered over Celite ethyl acetate wash and was concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography to afford tert butyl 4 6 methoxy 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridin 3 yl 3 methylbenzoate as a solid 4.3 g 10.11 mmol . MS ESI calc d. for CHBNO M H 426.2 found 426.0.

Intermediate J1 was synthesized by rhodium catalyzed Michael addition of appropriate boronic acids to the known pyrrolinone derivative S tert butyl 2 methyl 5 oxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrole 1 carboxylate Cuiper et al. 1999 64 2567 2570 . Treatment of J1 with strong base followed by trapping of the in situ generated enolate with MeI afforded intermediate J2. The enantiomer of J2 was synthesized following the same procedure starting from R tert butyl 2 methyl 5 oxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrole 1 carboxylate.

Step 1 To a 100 mL RBF were added 3 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl boronic acid 1.89 g 10.14 mmol S tert butyl 2 methyl 5 oxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrole 1 carboxylate 1 g 5.07 mmol hydroxy cyclooctadiene rhodiumRhodium I dimer 0.116 g 0.254 mmol potassium hydrogen fluoride 1.58 g 20.28 mmol . The mixture was degassed and filled back with N. Dioxane 45 mL and water 5 mL were then added. The mixture was degassed again and filled with N. The reaction mixture was heated at 60 C. overnight. It was diluted with EtOAc 200 mL washed with water brine. Organic layer was dried over NaSO and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluted with 30 EtOAc Hexane to give 2S 3S tert butyl 3 3 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methyl 5 oxopyrrolidine 1 carboxylate intermediate J1 0.85 g as white crystalline solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.20 s 1H 7.05 d 1H 6.87 d 1H 4.08 m 1H 3.86 s 3H 2.95 m 2H 2.53 m 1H 1.52 s 9H 1.41 d 3H .

Step 2 To a solution of 2S 3S tert butyl 3 3 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methyl 5 oxopyrrolidine 1 carboxylate intermediate J1 0.85 g 2.5 mmol in THF 20 mL was added LiHMDS 2.5 mL 2.5 mmol at 78 C. After 30 mins MeI 0.187 mL 3.00 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1.5 hr. It was warmed up to 0 C. for 30 min and then warmed up to RT for 30 min. The reaction mixture was quenched with 2 mL of AcOH and 100 mL of NHCl. The product was extracted with EtOAc 3 100 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine 100 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluted with 30 EtOAc Hexane to give 2S 3S 4R tert butyl 3 3 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl 2 4 dimethyl 5 oxopyrrolidine 1 carboxylate intermediate J2 0.55 g yield of 62 as off white solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.29 s 1H 7.14 d 1H 6.95 d 1H 3.93 s 3H 3.91 m 1H 2.58 m 1H 2.40 m 1H 1.59 s 9H 1.38 d 3H 1.17 d 3H .

Step 1. A solution of 4 bromo 2 chloroanisole 3 g 13.55 mmol and S benzyl 1 methoxy methyl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl carbamate 3.79 g 14.22 mmol in THF 33.9 mL was cooled to 20 C. with dry ice acetone. To this solution was added isopropylmagnesium chloride lithium chloride complex 22.9 mL 29.8 mmol at 20 C. dropwise under N. After addition the reaction mixture was warmed up to rt and stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to 40 C. and slowly poured into a stirred mixture of crushed ice and 30 mL of 1N HCl. The resulting mixture was diluted with 30 mL of brine extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The organic layer was dried with NaSOand concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluted with 0 100 EtOAc in hexane to give S benzyl 1 3 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl 1 oxopropan 2 yl carbamate 0.82 g as a white solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.05 s 1H 7.92 d 1H 6.98 d 1H 5.93 d 1H 5.29 m 1H 5.16 s 2H 3.99 s 3H 1.43 d 3H .

Step 2. To a solution of S benzyl 1 3 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl 1 oxopropan 2 yl carbamate 0.81 g 2.456 mmol in MeOH 10 mL and THF 10 mL was added NaBH 0.139 g 3.68 mmol at 0 C. The solution was stirred at that temperature for 0.5 hr. The reaction was quenched with Saturated NHCl aq. solution 20 mL and water 20 mL . The mixture was extracted 3 times with EtOAc 100 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried with NaSOand concentrated. The residue was purified by chromatography over silica gel and eluted with 40 EtOAc in hexane to give two isomers. The major isomer is benzyl 1R 2S 1 3 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl 1 hydroxypropan 2 yl carbamate 0.41 g . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.28 s 1H 7.20 d 1H 6.89 d 1H 5.17 s 2H 5.02 d 1H 4.81 d 1H 4.03 b 1H 3.93 s 3H 1.01 d 3H .

Step 3. To a solution of benzyl 1R 2S 1 3 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl 1 hydroxypropan 2 yl carbamate 0.24 g 0.686 mmol in THF 4.6 mL was added NaH 0.036 g 0.892 mmol at 0 C. The reaction mixture was warmed to RT and stirred overnight. It was then quenched with 1N HCl 1.5 mL . This mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with sat. aqueous NaHCO water and brine. The organic phase was dried with NaSOand concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluted with EtOAc to give 4S 5R 5 3 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl 4 methyloxazolidin 2 one intermediate K 0.13 g . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.37 s 1H 7.21 d 1H 6.97 d 1H 5.84 b 1H 5.65 d 1H 4.21 m 1H 3.96 s 3H 0.87 d 3H .

Step 1 To a 250 mL RBF was added methyl 3 bromo 4 methoxybenzoate 4.0 g 16.3 mmol . The flask was flushed with N. THF 60 mL was added followed by allylmagnesium bromide 39.2 mL 39.2 mmol 1.0 M in ether at 0 C. via a syringe over 10 mins. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 2 hrs. It was quenched by addition of 50 mL sat. NHCl at 0 C. and 100 mL of water. The product was extracted with EtOAc 3 100 mL . Organics were washed with 100 mL brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated to give 4 3 bromo 4 methoxyphenyl hepta 1 6 dien 4 ol 5.0 g as a colorless oil. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.61 s 1H 7.30 d 1H 6.88 d 1H 5.63 m 2H 5.12 d 4H 3.93 s 3H 2.65 m 2H 2.53 m 2H .

Step 2 To a 250 mL RBF were added 4 3 bromo 4 methoxyphenyl hepta 1 6 dien 4 ol 4.85 g 16.32 mmol triethylsilane 5.21 mL 32.6 mmol and CHCl 50 mL . The flask was flushed with N. BF.EtO 2.275 mL 17.95 mmol was added via syringe at 78 C. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1 hr and was then allowed to warm to 0 C. briefly. 50 mL 10 KOH was added at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was extracted with 50 mL EtOAc Hexane 1 1 . The organics were washed with 30 mL brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography eluted with 10 EtOAc Hexane to give 2 bromo 4 hepta 1 6 dien 4 yl 1 methoxybenzene 3.6 g as colorless oil. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.38 s 1H 7.06 d 1H 6.85 d 1H 5.66 m 2H 4.99 d 4H 3.91 s 3H 2.66 m 1H 2.42 m 2H 2.33 m 2H .

Step 3 To a solution of 2 bromo 4 hepta 1 6 dien 4 yl 1 methoxybenzene 2.0 g 7.11 mmol in DCM 36 mL was added Zhan catalyst 47 mg . The mixture was flushed with Nand refluxed at 45 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with 10 of EtOAc isohexane to give 2 bromo 4 cyclopent 3 en 1 yl 1 methoxybenzene 1.9 g as a colorless oil. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.46 s 1H 7.18 d 1H 6.83 d 1H 5.80 s 2H 3.91 s 3H 3.40 m 1H 2.81 m 2H 2.40 m 2H .

Step 4 To a 100 mL RBF were added 2 bromo 4 cyclopent 3 en 1 yl 1 methoxybenzene 1.9 g 7.51 mmol NMO 2.64 g 22.5 mmol osmium tetroxide 0.942 mL 0.075 mmol 2.5 in t BuOH t butanol 13 mL and water 13 mL . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at rt over the weekend. Volatiles were removed. Crude material was dissolved in 100 mL EtOAc and washed with 50 mL water. Organics were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 80 EtOAc in hexane to give 4 3 bromo 4 methoxyphenyl cyclopentane 1 2 diol 1.7 g as white solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.39 s 1H 7.10 d 1H 6.85 d 1H 4.37 m 2H 3.91 s 3H 3.55 m 1H 2.46 b 2H 2.18 m 2H 1.88 m 2H .

Step 5 To a solution of 4 3 bromo 4 methoxyphenyl cyclopentane 1 2 diol 2.0 g 6.97 mmol in acetone 50 mL was added 2 2 dimethoxypropane 2.56 mL 20.90 mmol at 0 C. followed by adding methanesulfonic acid 0.167 g 1.74 mmol dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight. Volatiles were removed under vacuum. To the residue was added aqueous NaHCO and the resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Crude product was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 15 EtOAc in hexane to give intermediate L 1.7 g as a white solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.43 s 1H 7.15 d 1H 6.85 d 1H 4.76 d 2H 3.88 s 3H 3.34 m 1H 2.20 dd 2H 1.59 m 2H 1.55 s 3H 1.35 s 3H .

Intermediate M was synthesized by Michael addition of the appropriate aryl cuperate reagent to 2 methylcyclopent 2 enone followed by a Beckmann rearrangement.

Step 1 To a 100 mL RBF was added 2 bromo 4 iodo 1 methoxybenzene 0.59 g 1.87 mmol and 10 mL THF. iPrMgCl 0.94 mL 1.89 mmol 2M THF solution was added at 0 C. via syringe. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hr. A solution of lithium 2 thenyl cyanocuprate 7.5 mL 1.87 mmol in THF was added followed by 2 methylcyclopent 2 enone 150 mg 1.56 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hr and was allowed to warm up and stirred at rt for 1 hr. The reaction mixture was diluted with 30 mL EtOAc hexane 1 1 washed with 30 mL 1N HCl then 20 mL brine. Organics were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography to give 135 mg 3 3 bromo 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methylcyclopentanone as a mixture of two diastereomers at 1.6 1 ratio. H NMR for the major diastereomer 500 MHz CDCl 7.35 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 7.05 dd J 2.2 8.4 Hz 1H 6.89 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 3.92 s 3H 3.55 m 1H 2.2 2.6 m 5H 0.83 d J 7.6 Hz 3H . H NMR for the minor diastereomer 500 MHz CDCl 7.48 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 7.19 dd J 2.2 8.3 Hz 1H 6.93 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 3.94 s 3H 2.75 m 1H 2.2 2.6 m 5H 1.07 d J 6.8 Hz 3H .

Step 2 To a vial were added 3 3 bromo 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methylcyclopentanone 135 mg 0.57 mmol NHOH 94 mg 1.43 mmol and 3 mL EtOH. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at 75 C. for 2 hrs. Volatiles were removed and the resulting residue was diluted with 20 mL EtOAc washed with 20 mL sat. NaCOaqueous solution and then 10 mL brine. The organics were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in 3 mL DCM and was transferred to a vial. To this vial were added tosyl Cl 109 mg 0.57 mmol DMAP catalytic and TEA 0.13 mL 0.95 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 hrs. Volatiles were removed. To the remaining material was added acetic acid 3.0 mL . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at rt overnight. Volatiles were removed. Crude material was diluted with 20 mL EtOAc washed with 20 mL sat. NaCOaqueous solution then 10 mL brine. Organics were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified on reverse phase HPLC eluted with acetonitrile water modified with 0.05 TFA gradient solvents to give 72 mg 3 3 bromo 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methylcyclopentanone intermediate M as a mixture of cis and trans isomers. MS ESI calc d. for CHBrNO M H 298.0 and 300.20 found 298.1 and 300.1.

Step 1 To a stirred solution of 2 3 bromo 4 methoxyphenyl acetic acid 5 g 20.40 mmol in 60 mL THF was added TEA 3.13 mL 22.44 mmol and then pivaloyl chloride 2.64 mL 21.42 mmol at 0 C. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 mins. Ice bath was replaced with dry ice acetone bath. To a separate round bottom flask was added S 4 benzyl 2 oxazolidinone 3.62 g 20.4 mmol and 50 mL THF. To this solution was added n BuLi 12.8 mL 20.4 mmol 1.6 M in hexane dropwise via a syringe at 78 C. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred 78 C. for 5 mins. This solution was transferred to the previous flask via channular transferring. After transferring the reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 30 mins and was allowed to warm up to rt. It was quenched by addition of 100 mL brine and 100 mL water. The reaction mixture was extracted with 200 mL 30 EtOAc in hexane. The organics were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Crude product was purified on a Combiflash prepacked silica gel column eluted with 5 to 35 EtOAc in hexane to give 5.7 g desired product as colorless viscous material. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.57 s 1H 7.3 m 4H 7.18 d J 7.3 Hz 1H 6.92 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 4.71 br 1H 4.1 4.3 m 4H 3.93 s 3H 3.31 d J 12.9 Hz 1H 2.81 dd J 9.8 13.2 Hz 1H .

Step 2. To a round bottom flask were added 10 mL DCM and S 4 benzyl 3 2 3 bromo 4 methoxyphenyl acetyl oxazolidin 2 one 1.0 g 2.47 mmol . TiCl 2.6 mL 2.60 mmol 1M DCM solution was added at 0 C. After stirring at 0 C. for 5 mins DIEA 0.45 mL 2.6 mmol was added via syringe. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 mins. Acetone 0.27 mL 3.71 mmol was added followed by more of TiCl 2.6 mL 2.6 mmol 1 M DCM solution . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 2 hrs. It was quenched by addition of 80 mL sat. NHCl aqueous solution. The resulting reaction mixture was extracted with 120 mL EtOAc hexane 1 1 . Organics were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Crude product was purified on Combiflash prepacked silica gel column eluted with 5 to 40 EtOAc in hexane to give 1.1 g desired product as viscous material. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.70 s 1H 7.1 7.4 m 6H 6.88 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 4.68 m 1H 4.1 m 2H 3.93 s 3H 3.83 s 1H 3.43 dd J 3.4 13.3 Hz 1H 2.82 dd J 9.9 13.3 Hz 1H 1.46 s 3H 1.09 s 3H .

Step 3 To a solution of S 4 benzyl 3 R 2 3 bromo 4 methoxyphenyl 3 hydroxy 3 methylbutanoyl oxazolidin 2 one 540 mg 1.17 mmol in 10 mL THF was added a solution of DIBAL H 3.5 mL 3.50 mmol 1 M toluene solution via a syringe at 0 C. After stirring at 0 C. for 20 mins more DIBAL H 1.0 mL 1.0 mmol was added. After stirring at 0 C. for 10 mins the reaction mixture was quenched by addition of 10 mL EtOAc and then 10 mL 3N HCl. After stirring at 0 C. for 15 mins the reaction was diluted with 30 mL EtOAc hexane 1 1 and 30 mL water. The layers were separated. The organics were washed with 20 mL 10 KOH aqueous solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Crude product was purified on prepacked Combiflash column and eluted with 5 to 40 EtOAc in hexane to give 185 mg viscous material. NMR indicated it is a mixture of desired product and the chiral auxiliary. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.49 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 7.23 dd J 2.1 8.3 Hz 1H 6.88 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 4.05 m 2H 3.92 s 3H 2.85 m 1H 1.27 s 3H 1.24 s 3H .

Step 4 To a solution of S 2 3 bromo 4 methoxyphenyl 3 methylbutane 1 3 diol 115 mg 0.40 mmol in 2 mL DCM were added DMAP catalytic DIEA 0.21 mL 1.29 mmol and tosyl chloride 106 mg 0.57 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at 40 C. overnight. It was diluted with 20 mL EtOAc and washed with 20 mL water. The organics were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Crude product was purified by chromatography to give 132 mg tosylate product. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.63 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 7.31 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 7.22 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.07 dd J 2.0 8.6 Hz 1H 6.82 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 4.65 dd J 4.9 10.0 Hz 1H 4.31 t J 9.9 Hz 1H 3.92 s 3H 2.9 m 1H 2.48 s 3H 1.28 s 3H 1.10 s 3H .

Step 5 To a solution of S 2 3 bromo 4 methoxyphenyl 3 hydroxy 3 methylbutyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 58 mg 0.13 mmol in 2 mL DMF was added NaN 34 mg 0.52 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was heated at 60 C. overnight and was then diluted with 10 mL EtOAc hexane 1 1 and 10 mL water. The layers were separated. The organics were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Crude product was purified on Combiflash prepacked silica gel column eluted with hexane to 40 EtOAc in hexane to give 38 mg desired product. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.49 d J 1.9 Hz 1H 7.22 dd J 2.1 8.5 Hz 1H 6.91 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 3.93 s 3H 3.9 m 1H 3.71 m 1H 2.82 m 1H 1.28 s 3H 1.17 s 3H .

Step 6 To a 25 mL round bottom flask containing S 4 azido 3 3 bromo 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methylbutan 2 ol 38 mg 0.12 mmol were added PPh 48 mg 0.18 mmol THF 2 mL and water 0.2 mL . The resulting reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 2 hrs. Volatiles were removed under vacuum. To the residue was added 2 mL THF DIEA 0.063 mL 0.36 mmol and CDI 39 mg 0.24 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was heated at 60 C. for 3 hrs. It was then diluted with 10 mL saturated NHCl and extracted with 15 mL EtOAc. The organics were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Crude product was purified on a Combiflash prepacked silica gel column which was eluted with EtOAc to give 30 mg of the desired product intermediate N . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.41 s 1H 7.16 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 6.88 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 6.76 s 1H 3.90 s 3H 3.65 t J 11.4 Hz 1H 3.46 br 1H 3.0 br 1H 1.34 s 3H 1.32 s 3H .

Compounds of Formula I and Formula Ia can be synthesized according to the general schemes outlined below. Syntheses of representative examples follow. The starting materials in the schemes are commercially available or are readily synthesized by a person skilled in the art.

In Scheme 1 A is CH or N where the H of CH can be substituted. In accordance with Scheme 1 a cross coupling reaction between Intermediate B D or E and an appropriately functionalized boronic acid ester provides compounds of the general formula I and Ia. In cases where an ester group is present in the final compound a saponification or hydrolysis may subsequently be carried out to generate the acid. In cases where a protecting group such as acetonide or Boc is present a deprotection step may also be needed.

In accordance with Scheme 2 Intermediate E is transformed to an iodide which is subjected to a selective Suzuki reaction to install an isopropenyl group. A second Suzuki reaction of the bromide with a known boronic ester completes the carbon skeleton of the molecule. A reduction and saponification provides a compound of the general formula I .

In accordance with Scheme 3 a compound of the general formula I containing an ester moiety may further be transformed into a 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 3H one or a 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 amine group via a two step sequence.

The following non limiting schemes and examples are provided so that the invention will be more fully appreciated and understood. Starting materials are made using known procedures or as shown below.

To Intermediate B2 30 mg 0.044 mmol was added THF 2 mL water 0.1 mL tribasic potassium phosphate 45.3 mg 0.213 mmol methyl 3 4 methoxy 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl propanoate 51.3 mg 0.16 mmol Intermediate H palladium II acetate 1.2 mg 5.34 mmol and 1 1 bis di tert butylphosphino ferrocene 2.53 mg 5.34 mol . The system was flushed with nitrogen gas and was heated at 62 C. overnight. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate hexanes 1 2 10 mL and was partitioned with water 10 mL . The organic was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by reverse phase HPLC to yield methyl 3 2 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 oxotetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 5 yl 6 methoxy 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 3 yl propanoate 27 mg 0.04 mmol . H NMR indicated that this compound exists as a pair of rotamers at 1.2 1 ratio. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.87 s 1H 7.81 s 2H 7.75 s 1H major rotamer 7.73 s 1H minor rotamer 7.6 m 1H 6.8 7.3 m 4H 6.06 d J 7.9 Hz 1H major rotamer 6.06 d J 7.9 Hz 1H major rotamer 6.01 d 1H minor rotamer 5.12 m 1H major rotamer 4.98 m 1H minor rotamer 4.1 m 1H 3.84 s 3H major rotamer 3.68 s 3H 3.67 s 3H 3.62 s 3H minor rotamer 2.9 m 2H 2.6 m 2H 0.9 1.7 m 4H . MS ESI calc d. for CHFNO M H 676.2 found 676.4. RTA 95 HS 296 nM

To methyl 3 2 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 oxotetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 5 yl 6 methoxy 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 3 yl propanoate 20 mg 0.03 mmol in THF 2 mL and water 0.5 mL was added lithium hydroxide monohydrate 6.21 mg 0.148 mmol and hydrogen peroxide 30 33.6 mg 0.296 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature. Upon completion the reaction was diluted with water 10 mL and solid NaSOwas added to quench hydrogen peroxide. The solution was acidified with aqueous HCl 1 M and was partitioned with ethyl acetate 20 mL . The organic was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated before purification by reverse phase HPLC to yield 3 2 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 oxotetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 5 yl 6 methoxy 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 3 yl propanoic acid 9 mg 0.014 mmol . H NMR indicated that this compound exists as a pair of rotamers at a 3 1 ratio. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.87 s 1H 7.82 s 2H 7.75 s 1H minor rotamer 7.73 s 1H major rotamer 7.6 m 1H 6.9 7.4 m 4H 6.08 d J 8.1 Hz 1H major rotamer 5.15 t 1H minor rotamer 5.06 t J 8.2 Hz 1H major rotamer 4.6 m 1H major rotamer 4.45 m 1H minor rotamer 4.98 m 1H minor rotamer 4.1 m 1H 3.85 s 3H minor rotamer 3.69 s 3H major rotamer 2.4 3.1 m 4H 0.9 1.9 m 4H . MS ESI calc d. for CHFNO M H 662.2 found 662.3. RTA 95 HS 128 nM

Step 1 To a solution of Intermediate B2 4.4 g 7.83 mmol in dioxane 50 mL and water 5 mL was added Intermediate I 3.66 g 8.61 mmol potassium phosphate 4.98 g 23.5 mmol and 1 1 bis di tert butylphosphino ferrocene palladium dichloride 0.255 g 0.39 mmol . The mixture was purged with nitrogen and heated at 80 C. overnight. The reaction was poured into ethyl acetate and was washed with water dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The resultant residue was purified by column chromatography to yield tert butyl 4 5 2 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 oxotetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 5 yl 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl 6 methoxypyridin 3 yl 3 methylbenzoate 4.5 g 5.77 mmol . MS ESI calc d. for CHFNO M H 781.2 found 781.2.

Step 2 To tert butyl 4 5 2 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 oxotetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 5 yl 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl 6 methoxypyridin 3 yl 3 methylbenzoate 1 g 1.28 mmol was added dichloromethane TFA 9 1 10 mL . The reaction was stirred overnight at room temperature. Upon completion the solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the resultant residue was redissolved in acetonitrile for direct purification by reverse phase HPLC to yield 4 5 2 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 oxotetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 5 yl 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl 6 methoxypyridin 3 yl 3 methylbenzoic acid 0.674 g 0.931 mmol . H NMR indicated that this compound exists as a pair of rotamers at 1.2 1 ratio. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.27 s 1H 8.04 m 4H peaks overlap for the two rotamers 7.90 s 1H 7.84 s 2H minor rotamer 7.83 s 2H major rotamer 7.75 s 1H major rotamer 7.67 s 1H minor rotamer 7.63 d J 8 Hz 1H major rotamer 7.42 m 2H 7.38 d J 7.9 Hz 1H major rotamer 7.36 d J 7.9 Hz 1H minor rotamer 6.11 d J 7.9 Hz 1H minor rotamer 6.09 d J 7.9 Hz 1H major rotamer 5.27 t J 7.9 Hz 1H major rotamer 4.95 t J 7.9 Hz 1H minor rotamer 4.62 m 1H minor rotamer 4.51 m 1H major rotamer 4.12 s 3H minor rotamer 3.94 s 3H minor rotamer 2.45 s 3H minor rotamer 2.45 s 3H major rotamer 2.37 m 1H 2.2 m 1H 2.05 m 1H 1.85 m 1H 1.55 m 1H 1.4 m 1H 1.1 m 2H . MS ESI calc d. for CHFNO M H 725.2 found 725.0. RTA 95 HS 53.18 nM

To a 10 mL microwave tube was added 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 2 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 5 trifluoromethyl phenyptetrahydropyrrolo 1 2 c oxazol 3 1H one intermediate B3 70 mg 0.115 mmol intermediate J2 37 mg 0.104 mmol chloro 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropyl 1 1 biphenyl 2 2 amino 1 1 biphenyl palladium II Xphos Precatalyst 9 mg 0.021 mmol potassium phosphate 33 mg 0.157 mmol dioxane 1 mL and water 0.1 mL . The reaction mixture was degassed and filled with Nand heated at 110 C. for 3 hrs. It was cooled to rt and diluted with EtOAc 3 mL . The mixture was washed with water and brine and then concentrated. The residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC. The product fraction was concentrated and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with brine and concentrated to give the Boc protected product. It was dissolved in 0.5 mL of DCM and treated with 1 mL of TFA at rt for 10 mins. Volatiles were removed under vacuum. The residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC. Fractions contain desired product was lyophilized to give the title compound 40 mg as white powder. MS ESI calc d. for CHFNO M H 701.0 found 701.2. RTA 95 HS 398 nM

The following compounds in table 4 were prepared according to general scheme 1 using the procedure outlined in example 1 2 3 and 4 utilizing commercially available or known halide or boronic acids esters. In step 1 intermediate B D E may be used. In cases where an ester moiety is present saponification or hydrolysis may be carried out using the procedure outlined in example 2 or 3.

Step 1 To a slurry of 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 3 bromo 6 dimethylamino pyridin 2 yl tetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 3 one 200 mg 0.372 mmol in MeOH 7.25 mL under nitrogen at room temperature was added silver sulfate 116 mg 0.372 mmol followed by iodine 94 mg 0.372 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred for 1 hour. The reaction was partitioned with ethyl acetate and aqueous sodium hydroxide 1.0 M . The organic was then washed with aqueous saturated sodium thiosulfate and the combined aqueous layers were extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organics were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography to yield 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 3 bromo 6 dimethylamino 5 iodopyridin 2 yl tetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 3 one 180 mg 0.271 mmol . MS ESI calc d. for CHBrFNO M H 666.0 found 666.1.

Step 2 To 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 3 bromo 6 dimethylamino 5 iodopyridin 2 yl tetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 3 one 50 mg 0.075 mmol in DMF 1 mL was added isopropenylboronic acid pinacol ester 13.9 mg 0.083 mmol dichloro 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II dichloromethane adduct 1.84 mg 2.26 mmol and potassium carbonate 0.5 M in water 0.30 mL 0.151 mmol . The system was stirred at 50 C. overnight before cooling and partitioning with water and ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated before purifying by column chromatography to yield 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 3 bromo 6 dimethylamino 5 prop 1 en 2 yl pyridin 2 yl tetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 3 one 19 mg 0.033 mmol . MS ESI calc d. for CHBrFNO M H 580.1 found 580.2.

Step 3 To 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 3 bromo 6 dimethylamino 5 prop 1 en 2 yl pyridin 2 yl tetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 3 one 19 mg 0.033 mmol in THF 0.5 mL was added methyl 4 methoxy 2 methyl 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl biphenyl 4 carboxylate 18.8 mg 0.049 mmol dichloro 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II 2.14 mg 3.29 mmol and potassium carbonate 2.0 M in water 0.049 mL 0.100 mmol . The system was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was directly purified by column chromatography to yield 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 3 bromo 6 dimethylamino 5 prop 1 en 2 yl pyridin 2 yl tetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 3 one 24 mg 0.033 mmol . MS ESI calc d. for CHFNO M H 754.3 found 754.4.

Step 4 To 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 3 bromo 6 dimethylamino 5 prop 1 en 2 yl pyridin 2 yl tetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 3 one 24 mg 0.033 mmol in ethanol 5 mL was added palladium on carbon 0.54 mg 5.04 mmol . The system was stirred at room temperature under a hydrogen atmosphere for 2 days. The reaction was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. Crude methyl 3 2 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 oxotetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 5 yl 6 dimethylamino 5 propan 2 yl pyridin 3 yl 4 methoxy 2 methylbiphenyl 4 carboxylate 24 mg 0.033 mmol was carried forward without further purification. MS ESI calc d. for CHFNO M H 756.3 found 756.4.

Step 5 To methyl 3 2 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 oxotetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 5 yl 6 dimethylamino 5 propan 2 yl pyridin 3 yl 4 methoxy 2 methylbiphenyl 4 carboxylate 24 mg 0.033 mmol in THF 1 mL was added lithium hydroxide 9.51 mg 0.397 mmol . The reaction was stirred overnight at room temperature. Reaction was incomplete. More lithium hydroxide 4.76 mg 1.99 mmol was added and the reaction was heated to 50 C. for 5 hours. The reaction was purified by HPLC to yield 3 2 1R 5S 7aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 oxotetrahydro 1H pyrrolo 1 2 c 1 3 oxazol 5 yl 6 dimethylamino 5 propan 2 yl pyridin 3 yl 4 methoxy 2 methylbiphenyl 4 carboxylic acid 10 mg 0.012 mmol . H NMR indicated that this compound exists as a pair of rotamers at 1.6 1 ratio. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.94 8.10 m 2H 7.90 s 1H 7.84 s 2H 7.48 m 2H 7.42 dd J 8.5 Hz J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.37 d J 7.5 Hz 1H minor rotamer 7.30 d 1H merged with solvent peak major rotamer 7.14 d J 8.5 Hz 1H minor rotamer 7.07 d J 8.5 Hz 1H major rotamer 5.98 d J 8.0 Hz 1H minor rotamer 5.93 d J 8.0 Hz 1H major rotamer 5.09 t J 7.5 Hz 1H minor rotamer 5.01 t J 7.5 Hz 1H major rotamer 4.76 m 1H 3.93 s 3H minor rotamer 3.83 s 3H major rotamer 3.40 m 1H 3.07 s 6H 2.47 s 3H major rotamer 2.40 s 3H minor rotamer 2.35 m 1H 2.05 m 1H 1.60 m 1H 1.29 t J 6.5 Hz 6H 1.08 m 1H . MS ESI calc d. for CHFNO M H 742.3 found 742.5. RTA 95 HS 182 nM

Step 1 To methyl 3 2 1R 5S 8aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 oxohexahydro 1 3 oxazolo 3 4 a pyridin 5 yl 6 methoxy 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 3 yl propanoate 30 mg 0.044 mmol was added ethanol 2 mL followed by hydrazine hydrate 21.8 mg 0.435 mmol . The mixture was heated for 150 C. by microwave irradiation for an hour. The crude reaction was concentrated and 3 2 1R 5S 8aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 oxohexahydro 1 3 oxazolo 3 4 a pyridin 5 yl 6 methoxy 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 3 yl propanehydrazide 27 mg 0.039 mmol was carried forward without further purification. MS ESI calc d. for CHFNO M H 690.2 found 690.2.

Step 2 To 3 2 1R 5S 8aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 oxohexahydro 1 3 oxazolo 3 4 a pyridin 5 yl 6 methoxy 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 3 yl propanehydrazide 10 mg 0.015 mmol in DCM 2 mL was added DIPEA 5.6 mg 0.044 mmol and phosgene 4.30 mg 0.44 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes before the reaction was directly purified by column chromatography to yield 1R 5S 8aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 2 methoxy 5 2 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl ethyl 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 2 ylhexahydro 1 3 oxazolo 3 4 a pyridin 3 one 5 mg 6.99 mmol . H NMR indicated that this compound exists as a pair of rotamers at 3 1 ratio H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.23 s 1H 7.88 s 1H 7.80 s 2H 7.79 s 1H minor rotamer 7.65 s 2H major rotamer 7.62 m 1H 7.4 d J 7.8 Hz 1H major rotamer 7.25 d J 7.8 Hz 1H minor rotamer 7.09 s 1H 7.02 m 2H 5.58 m 1H minor rotamer 5.42 m 1H major rotamer 4.19 m 1H 3.85 s 3H minor rotamer 3.80 s 3H major rotamer 3.0 2.85 m 4H 1.98 m 2H 1.5 1.6 m 4H . MS ESI calc d. for CHFNO M H 716.2 found 716.3. RTA 95 HS 942 nM

The following compound in Table 5 was prepared according to General Scheme 3 using the procedure outlined in Example 80 from compounds prepared according to General Scheme 1.

To 3 2 1R 5S 8aS 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 oxohexahydro 1 3 oxazolo 3 4 c pyridin 5 yl 6 methoxy 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 3 yl propanehydrazide 10 mg 0.015 mmol in dioxane 1 mL was added sodium bicarbonate 2.4 mg 0.029 mmol followed by water 0.2 mL . The system was sealed and cyanogen bromide 5.8 L 0.029 mmol was added at room temperature. The reaction was complete in 5 minutes and the solvent was removed before the crude material was purified by HPLC to yield 1R 5S 8aS 5 5 2 5 amino 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl ethyl 2 methoxy 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 2 yl 1 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl hexahydro 1 3 oxazolo 3 4 c pyridin 3 one 7 mg 9.80 mmol . H NMR indicated that this compound exists as a pair of rotamers at 1 1 ratio. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.45 br s 1H 8.3 br s 1H 7.90 d J 9.2 Hz 1H 7.75 m 5H 7.38 t J 8.5 Hz 7.2 m 2H 7.0 m 2H 5.55 d J 8.9 Hz 1H 5.40 d J 8.9 Hz 1H 5.38 m 1H 5.25 m 1H 4.2 m 1H 3.95 m 1H 3.82 s 3H 3.8 s 3H 3.2 3.1 br s 4H 2.2 m 1H 2.12 m 1H 1.80 m 4H . MS ESI calc d. for CHFNO M H 715.2 found 715.3. RTA 95 HS 1319 nM

The following compound in Table 6 was prepared according to general Scheme 3 using the procedure outlined in Example 80 from compounds prepared according to general Scheme 1.

