---

title: System and method controlling access to applications on a mobile device
abstract: Disclosed are systems and methods for controlling access to applications of a mobile device. An example method includes collecting, by a controlled shell of an OS of the mobile device, information about an application of the user device; determining a category designation of the application based on the collected information; determining, by the controlled shell, whether the category designation of the application complies with one or more rules of a usage policy of the mobile device; blocking user access to the application if it is determined that a rule exists prohibiting use of applications in the designated category or if no rule exists permitting use of the applications in the designated category; and permitting user access to the application if it is determined that a rule exists allowing use of applications in the designated category or if no rule exists prohibiting use of the applications in the designated category.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509833&OS=09509833&RS=09509833
owner: AO Kaspersky Lab
number: 09509833
owner_city: Moscow
owner_country: RU
publication_date: 20140624
---
The present disclosure claims benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a d to a Russian Application No. 2014121024 filed on May 26 2014 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates generally to the field of access control and more specifically to systems and methods for controlling access to applications on a mobile device.

Today the number of mobile computing devices is growing and they have penetrated all spheres of human life. The most popular among them are mobile phones smartphones notebooks communicators and navigation systems. Mobile devices are used as a means of communication work and entertainment. In tandem with the development of these devices wireless means of communication are also being developed and are inseparable therefrom. The transfer of data from one device to another and the exchange of information are tasks which cause no difficulty even for an inexperienced user of these devices.

Modern mobile devices are very popular not only among an adult audience but are also being actively used by children and adolescents and they afford the possibility of accessing the Internet practically anywhere and at any time of the day. The Internet contains various information often oriented only to an adult user audience. For example some information is of a pornographic nature and may be found on various dating sites. Obviously such informational resources should be closed to visits by children.

Yet every year there are more and more children and adolescents visiting the Internet and trying to learn about it and use its possibilities. The Internet allows them to learn to grow and to be part of a virtual classroom. At the same time young Internet users are often unprepared to adequately take in the data that are found and obtained there which might be inappropriate untrustworthy or dangerous and consequently may cause harm not only to the computer but also to the users themselves. There are applications which may be inappropriate to a varying degree for children of various age groups such as gaming applications application with in game shopping applications with a large number of rights access to sending of SMS for example applications with a high ESRB rating and others.

Thus there is a need to develop parental control technologies to protect children from applications not suitable to their age category.

Disclosed are aspects of systems methods and computer program products for controlling access to applications on mobile devices based on categorization of the application. The technical result of the present aspects is to increase the safety of use of mobile devices which is accomplished by preventing the use of applications on a mobile device that do not conform to the usage policy of the mobile device.

According to an aspect an example method for controlling access to applications of a mobile device comprises collecting by a controlled shell of an operating system OS of the mobile device information about at least one application of the user device determining a category designation of the application based on the collected information determining by the controlled shell whether the category designation of the application complies with one or more rules of a usage policy of the mobile device blocking by the controlled shell user access to the application if it is determined that a rule exists prohibiting use of applications in the designated category or if no rule exists permitting use of the applications in the designated category and permitting by the controlled shell user access to the application if it is determined that a rule exists allowing use of applications in the designated category or if no rule exists prohibiting use of the applications in the designated category.

In another example the information pertaining to the application includes at least one of application metadata a hash sum of the application a name of the application a license agreement user instructions name of company that developed the application multimedia content registry key information age rating information drivers and libraries

In another example permitting use of the application includes permitting use of the application with one or more restrictions that include at least a restriction on time of use a restriction on duration of use a restriction on use based on a geographic location of the mobile device a restriction on use of resources of the mobile device and a restriction on use based on an active user account

In another example the method further comprises checking after a boot sequence of the mobile device category designations of all applications present on the mobile device determining whether the category designations of each of the applications complies with the one or more rules of a usage policy of the mobile device and blocking or permitting use of each of the applications based on the determination.

In another example the method further comprising sending the information pertaining to the application to a categorization module wherein the categorization module determines the category designation of the application based on the information.

In another example if the categorization module determines that the category designation of the application is inconclusive the categorization module generates a probability distribution indicating how likely it is that the application belongs to one or more categories.

In another example the method further comprises assigning the application to a first category that is indicated as being a most likely category for the application or assigning the application to a second category that is indicated as being a less likely category for the application with one or more restrictions on a use of the application.

In another example the controlled shell is a desktop of the OS that includes clickable shortcuts configured to launch applications.

According to yet another aspect an example system for controlling access to applications of a mobile device comprises a hardware processor configured to executed a controlled shell of an operating system OS of the mobile device wherein the controlled shell is configured to collect information about at least one application of the user device a categorization module configured to determine a category designation of the application based on the collected information the controlled shell further configured to determine whether the category designation of the application complies with one or more rules of a usage policy of the mobile device the controlled shell further configured to block user access to the application if it is determined that a rule exists prohibiting use of applications in the designated category or if no rule exists permitting use of the applications in the designated category and the controlled shell further configured to permit user access to the application if it is determined that a rule exists allowing use of applications in the designated category or if no rule exists prohibiting use of the applications in the designated category.

According to yet another aspect an example computer program product stored on a non transitory computer readable medium for controlling access to applications of a mobile device the computer program product includes computer executable instructions for intercepting by a controlled shell of an operating system OS of the mobile device a user request to access an application on the mobile device collecting information about the application determining a category designation of the application based on the collected information determining by the controlled shell whether the category designation of the application complies with one or more rules of a usage policy of the mobile device blocking by the controlled shell access to the application if it is determined that a rule exists prohibiting use of applications in the designated category or if no rule exists permitting use of the applications in the designated category and permitting by the controlled shell access to the application if it is determined that a rule exists allowing use of applications in the designated category or if no rule exists prohibiting use of the applications in the designated category.

The above simplified summary of example aspects serves to provide a basic understanding of the present disclosure. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects of the present disclosure. Its sole purpose is to present one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of the disclosure that follows. To the accomplishment of the foregoing the one or more aspects of the present disclosure include the features described and particularly pointed out in the claims.

Example aspects are described herein in the context of a system method and computer program product for controlling access to applications on a mobile device. Those of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the following description is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other aspects will readily suggest themselves to those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. Reference will now be made in detail to implementations of the example aspects as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The same reference indicators will be used to the extent possible throughout the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or like items.

Any mobile device is generally under the control of a mobile operating system hereafter OS . Such mobile OSs are for example Android iOS Symbian BlackBerry OS Windows Phone and so on. The applications installed on devices access the resources of the mobile device including the communication ports across interfaces which are provided by the operating system. The applications contain various data or enable access to such. It is therefore necessary to restrict the use by the users of applications not conforming to the usage policy of the mobile device. A usage policy of a mobile device includes the set of rules which govern the use of the mobile device. One possible example of such a policy is shown below 

The resources of a mobile device include components which may be allocated to a data processing process for a particular block of time. The primary resources of a computer system are the processor s the main memory data storage devices and peripherals. The interface provided by the operating system for interaction with the resources of the device may be realized in the form of API application programming interface functions. With their help the application may interact with the network perform operations with files with memory and so on.

By gaining control over the shell of a mobile device one may gain control over the execution of applications changing the settings of the device such as the settings for access to Wi fi wireless networks and many other functions. In the general case control of the shell of a mobile device may control and regulate the actions of a child by the usage policies of the mobile device. Control may be organized in four different ways 

The differences in these four methods lie in the area of technology application. There are different approaches to solving problems in the area of parental control and other technologies. The most effective from the standpoint of protection is the first method replacing the standard shell of the mobile device. In this case all the actions of the child occur from a controlled application the shell of the mobile device and they may be logged to inform the parent blocked or modified. In one example aspect it is possible to run all applications in a sandbox to organize control of all the actions of the application on the basis of the usage policies of the mobile device. Thus it is possible to limit the actions of a child for example prevent the sending of SMS through all applications and not just the standard one check all URLs being accessed and not just the URLs which are accessed in the standard browser notify the parents as to all actions of the child and so on.

In one example aspect the described technology for use of the shell of the mobile device enables specifying an application or category of applications which a child is permitted to use. The technology also enables placing limits on the functions executed by applications access to network to telephone and so on performing a filtering of data placing limits on time for example applications belonging to the Game category may only be run after 6 00 p.m. with a total time of working with the applications of not more than two hours a day . For example a parent allows a child to install new applications but does not want the child to install applications which are not age appropriate. For this in one example aspect an application categorization module e.g. categorization service may be used to provide data on the category of the application being analyzed and on this basis only applications appropriate to the particular child are permitted for use.

According to the first example aspect in step the user activates e.g. touches with a finger or using mouse pointer the application shortcut depicted in the mobile device shell to run an application. The mobile device shell determines the application corresponding to the shortcut in step and starts it in step .

According to the second example aspect in step analogous to step of the first example the user activates the application shortcut depicted in the mobile device shell to run an application. Then in step the controlled mobile device shell determines the application corresponding to the shortcut. In one example aspect if the category of the given application is not known the controlled mobile device shell with the aid of a collecting module may collect metadata pertaining to the application and send the collected metadata to a remote categorization module to determine the category of the application. In one example aspect the categorization module may be implemented locally on the mobile device. In step the controlled mobile device shell checks whether the running of the given application conforms to the usage policy of the mobile device. The checking for compliance with the usage policy of the mobile device may be done both in regard to the application itself and the category to which the application belongs. The usage policy of the mobile device may contain allowing and or prohibiting rules for example an allowing rule to allow the running of the Facebook application a prohibiting rule to prohibit the running of applications belonging to the category 18 . In the general case the checking for compliance with the usage policy of the mobile device concludes with a search for rules pertaining to the application or the categories of the given application which allow or prohibit the use of the given application. If there is a rule in the usage policy of the mobile device which prohibits the use of an application or there is no rule allowing the use of an application then that application does not conform to the usage policy of the mobile device. But if the usage policy of the mobile device has no rule prohibiting the use of an application or if there is a rule allowing its use then the given application conforms to the usage policy of the mobile device. Rules conforming to the usage policy of a mobile device may contain additional conditions for example a date time length of the work session and other conditions as well as specific actions disclosing a example of use of the given application such as running deleting updating and others. That is the running of an application may be allowed but with certain restrictions at least of the following kind 

It is also possible to use any given combination of the aforementioned restrictions. Thus in accordance with the second example aspect shown in if in step the controlled mobile device shell determines that the running of an application conforms to the usage policy of the mobile device then in step this application will be run but if the running of the application does not conform to the usage policy of the mobile device then in step the running of this application is blocked. Furthermore the shortcut of an application which cannot be run even with restrictions may be hidden by the controlled mobile device shell.

The diagram also depicts a collecting module which collects metadata pertaining to applications and sends the collected metadata to the categorization module . The metadata may be any data parameters and characteristics pertaining to the application such as 

The categorization module may be a local module or a remote server designed to analyze applications and their associated metadata for the purpose of assigning them to a particular category. If as a result of the analysis of the metadata it is not possible to accurately determine the category of the application the categorization module will send to a decision making module a probability distribution showing how likely it is that the application belongs to one category or another. In the course of the analysis metadata is studied for the presence of features indicating the belonging of the application to one category or another for example the use by an application of graphic libraries such as OpenGL ES may indicate that application belongs to the Games category. Any indication of belonging to a particular category increases the likelihood of the application belonging to that category thus after the analysis in the context of one classification such as a classification of applications by age categories or by functionality it is possible to form a probability distribution of possible categories of the application. Conditions such as thresholds may be used to select a category from the probability distribution. If the threshold has not been passed or any other conditions imposed then the categorization module may send the probability distribution to the decision making module . The decision making module which is connected by the storage module for storage of usage policies of the mobile device may in turn select for example the most likely category of the application or assign the application to a less likely category but with more stringent requirements for example the requirements may become more stringent the younger the age group . By stringent is meant the number of prohibitions and restrictions in effect for the category the more of these the more stringent the requirements in accordance with the usage policy of the mobile device. In one example aspect the decision making module is implemented in the form of the mobile device shell. The decision making module determines whether to block or allow the use of an application on the mobile device based on the compliance of the application s category with the usage policy of the mobile device as selected from the storage module . Thus if the category of the application does not conform to the selected usage policy of the mobile device the use of the application is blocked and if it conforms then it is allowed.

The personal computer in turn includes a hard disk for reading and writing of data a magnetic disk drive for reading and writing on removable magnetic disks and an optical drive for reading and writing on removable optical disks such as CD ROM DVD ROM and other optical information media. The hard disk the magnetic disk drive and the optical drive are connected to the system bus across the hard disk interface the magnetic disk interface and the optical drive interface respectively. The drives and the corresponding computer information media are power independent modules for storage of computer instructions data structures program modules and other data of the personal computer .

The present disclosure provides the implementation of a system that uses a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk but it should be understood that it is possible to employ other types of computer information media which are able to store data in a form readable by a computer solid state drives flash memory cards digital disks random access memory RAM and so on which are connected to the system bus via the controller .

The computer has a file system where the recorded operating system is kept and also additional program applications other program modules and program data . The user is able to enter commands and information into the personal computer by using input devices keyboard mouse . Other input devices not shown may be used microphone joystick game controller scanner and so on. Such input devices usually plug into the computer system through a serial port which in turn is connected to the system bus but they may be connected in other ways for example with the aid of a parallel port a game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus across an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor the personal computer may be equipped with other peripheral output devices not shown such as loudspeakers a printer and so on.

The personal computer is able to work in a network environment using a network connection to one or more remote computers . The remote computer or computers are also personal computers or servers having the majority or all of the aforementioned elements in describing the nature of a personal computer as shown in . Other devices may also be present in the computer network such as routers network stations peer devices or other network nodes.

Network connections may form a local area computer network LAN and a wide area computer network WAN . Such networks are used in corporate computer networks and internal company networks and they generally have access to the Internet. In LAN or WAN networks the personal computer is connected to the local area network across a network adapter or network interface . When networks are used the personal computer may employ a modem or other modules for providing communications with a wide area computer network such as the Internet. The modem which is an internal or external device is connected to the system bus by a serial port . It should be noted that the network connections are only examples and need not depict the exact configuration of the network i.e. in reality there are other ways of establishing a connection of one computer to another by technical communication modules.

In various aspects the systems and methods described herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the methods may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable medium. Computer readable medium includes data storage. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable medium may comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM Flash memory or other types of electric magnetic or optical storage medium or any other medium that may be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that may be accessed by a processor of a general purpose computer.

In various aspects the systems and methods described in the present disclosure in terms of modules. The term module as used herein refers to a real world device component or arrangement of components implemented using hardware such as by an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or field programmable gate array FPGA for example or as a combination of hardware and software such as by a microprocessor system and a set of instructions to implement the module s functionality which while being executed transform the microprocessor system into a special purpose device. A module may also be implemented as a combination of the two with certain functions facilitated by hardware alone and other functions facilitated by a combination of hardware and software. In certain implementations at least a portion and in some cases all of a module may be executed on the processor of a general purpose computer such as the one described in greater detail in above . Accordingly each module may be realized in a variety of suitable configurations and should not be limited to any particular implementation exemplified herein.

In the interest of clarity not all of the routine features of the aspects are disclosed herein. It will be appreciated that in the development of any actual implementation of the present disclosure numerous implementation specific decisions must be made in order to achieve the developer s specific goals and that these specific goals will vary for different implementations and different developers. It will be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking of engineering for those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

Furthermore it is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and not of restriction such that the terminology or phraseology of the present specification is to be interpreted by the skilled in the art in light of the teachings and guidance presented herein in combination with the knowledge of the skilled in the relevant art s . Moreover it is not intended for any term in the specification or claims to be ascribed an uncommon or special meaning unless explicitly set forth as such.

The various aspects disclosed herein encompass present and future known equivalents to the known modules referred to herein by way of illustration. Moreover while aspects and applications have been shown and described it would be apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that many more modifications than mentioned above are possible without departing from the inventive concepts disclosed herein.

