---

title: Electronic device and control method of the same
abstract: An electronic device and a method of controlling an operation thereof are provided. The method includes acquiring image data using an image sensor comprising a first plurality of pixels configured to have a first identical exposure time and a second plurality of pixels configured to have a second identical exposure time, wherein the acquiring of the image data includes acquiring the image data using the first plurality of pixels and the second plurality of pixels while the first plurality of pixels have the first identical exposure time that is identical to the second identical exposure time of the second plurality of pixels and controlling the image sensor such that the first plurality of pixels has the first identical exposure time different from the second identical exposure time of the second plurality of pixels, at least partially based on the acquired image data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09451173&OS=09451173&RS=09451173
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09451173
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140804
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Feb. 21 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0020912 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to an electronic device. More particularly the present disclosure relates to a method of processing a High Dynamic Range HDR image using an electronic device.

A dynamic range of an image may be a range for representing luminance levels from a dark region to a bright region of the image and is defined as a ratio between a brightest pixel value and a darkest pixel value. The dynamic range is adjusted through a control of pixel values for representing brightness such as luminance of an image. A technology for enhancing image quality by improving the dynamic range of an image output from an image sensor is called a High Dynamic Range HDR scheme.

In the HDR scheme images having different exposure times are obtained by photographing an identical subject two or more times and a dynamic range is expanded through composition of the images. At this time two images having different exposure times may be obtained by differently configuring an amount of exposure or a shutter speed and an HDR image may be acquired through composition and correction of the images.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Since a High Dynamic Range HDR image is acquired through the composition and correction of the plurality of images having different exposures an extended period of time may be needed to capture and compose the plurality of images.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic sensor for creating an image having a high dynamic range in a dynamic environment and a control method thereof.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic sensor for processing an image acquired through a combination of long exposure pixels and short exposure pixels in real time and a control method thereof.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic sensor for creating a high quality image through correction of an over exposed region and an under exposed region in real time and a control method thereof.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic sensor for automatically performing switching between an auto exposure mode and a high dynamic range mode and a control method thereof.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes an image sensor configured to acquire image data from an array of pixels included in the image sensor and at least one processor configured to process the image data wherein the array of pixels includes a first plurality of pixels configured to have a first identical exposure time and a second plurality of pixels configured to have a second identical exposure time wherein the first identical exposure time is identical to or different from the second identical exposure time and wherein the at least one processor is configured to control the image sensor such that the first plurality of pixels are changed from at least one of a state of having an exposure time identical to that of the second plurality of pixels to a state of having an exposure time different from that of the second plurality of pixels and a state of having an exposure time different from that of the second plurality of pixels to a state of having an exposure time identical to that of the second plurality of pixels based on at least some of the image data.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method of controlling an operation of an electronic device is provided. The method includes acquiring image data using an image sensor including a first plurality of pixels configured to have a first identical exposure time and a second plurality of pixels configured to have a second identical exposure time wherein the acquiring of the image data includes acquiring the image data using the first plurality of pixels and the second plurality of pixels while the first plurality of pixels have the first identical exposure time that is identical to the second identical exposure time of the second plurality of pixels and controlling the image sensor such that the first plurality of pixels have the first identical exposure time different from the second identical exposure time of the second plurality of pixels at least partially based on the acquired image data.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device for capturing an image is provided. The electronic device includes an image sensor configured to acquire image data from an array of pixels included in the image sensor the array of pixels configured to generate the image data using a first plurality of pixels configured to have a first identical exposure time and a second plurality of pixels configured to have a second identical exposure time the first plurality of pixels and the second plurality of pixels being included in the array of pixels and at least one processor configured to process the image data to control the first identical exposure time and the second identical exposure time to be a same time or a different time and to generate an output image according to the image data.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

The expressions such as include and may include which may be used in the present disclosure denote the presence of the disclosed functions operations and constituent elements and do not limit one or more additional functions operations and constituent elements. In the present disclosure the terms such as include and or have may be construed to denote a certain characteristic number step operation constituent element component or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of addition of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations constituent elements components or combinations thereof.

Furthermore in the present disclosure the expression and or includes any and all combinations of the associated listed words. For example the expression A and or B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

Although the expressions such as first and second in the present disclosure can modify various constituent elements of the present disclosure they do not limit the constituent elements. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the elements. The above expressions are used merely for the purpose to distinguish an element from the other elements. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both of them are user devices. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be also termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In the case where a component is referred to as being connected or accessed to other component it should be understood that not only the component is directly connected or accessed to the other component but also there may exist another component between them. Meanwhile in the case where a component is referred to as being directly connected or directly accessed to other component it should be understood that there is no component therebetween. The terms used in the present disclosure are only used to describe specific embodiments and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. Singular forms are intended to include plural forms unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Hereinafter an electronic sensor according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. A camera module including the electronic sensor according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure for example an image sensor may be mounted to an electronic device. Such an electronic device may be provided with a camera a camcorder a web camera a surveillance camera a medical camera a high speed camera a multi camera such as a 3D camera or the like.

The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include a device having a communication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of and or a combination of various devices such as a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a net book computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP a Motion Picture Expert Group MPEG Audio Layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical device a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothing an electronic clock a wrist watch an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic accessory and a smart watch a home appliance e.g. a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner and the like an artificial intelligence robot a TeleVision TV a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio various medical devices e.g. a Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI a Computed Tomography CT a movie camera an ultra sonic device and the like a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a set top box a TV box e.g. a Samsung HomeSync an Apple TV or a Google TV an electronic dictionary a vehicle infotainment device electronic equipment for a ship e.g. navigation equipment for a ship a gyrocompass and the like an avionics security equipment electronic clothing an electronic key a camcorder a game consoles a flat panel display device an electronic picture frame an electronic album furniture or a part of a building structure including a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and the like. Further it is apparent to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Referring to the electronic device may include an image sensor an image pre processor an Application Processor AP including an Image Signal Processor ISP a storage unit a display unit and an auto exposure controller . Only the constituent elements associated with the embodiment of the present disclosure are illustrated in and it is apparent that the electronic device may also be provided with other elements in addition to the aforementioned constituent elements.

A camera module not shown may include the image sensor and the image sensor which is an example of an electronic sensor may detect incident light and may output an electrical image signal corresponding to the detected light when light reflected from a subject is input to the image sensor through a lens. The image sensor may output the image signal obtained by photographing the subject in units of frames. The image sensor includes at least one of a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS sensor a Charge Coupled Device CCD sensor a Foveon sensor a complementary image sensor and the like.

The image sensor is configured with a plurality of pixels and may include an array in which the plurality of pixels are arranged in columns and rows in order to obtain an image having a predetermined size. The array according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be divided into a first plurality of pixels not shown and a second plurality of pixels not shown from among the plurality pixels . Here the first plurality of pixels and the second plurality of pixels may be understood as various pixel arrangements such as a group of pixels a pair of pixels at least two adjacent pixels at least every other pixel and the like can be made according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. Hereinafter the first plurality of pixels and the second plurality pixels are referred to as a first group of pixels and a second group of pixels respectively and may be collectively referred to as first and second groups of pixels.

The first and second groups of pixels may be configured to have a same exposure time. The first and second groups of pixels may be changed from a state of having the same exposure time to a state of having different exposure times by the auto exposure controller or the exposure times of the first and second groups of pixels may be changed to be an identical time. On the contrary the first and second groups of pixels may be changed from a state of having different exposure times to a state of having the same exposure time or the exposure times of the first and second groups of pixels may be changed by an identical time.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a state in which the first and second groups of pixels have the same exposure time may be defined as an auto exposure mode and the state in which the first and second groups of pixels have the different exposure times may be defined as a live High Dynamic Range HDR mode. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when a condition for changing the exposure times is satisfied the first and second groups of pixels may be changed from the state of having the same exposure time to the state of having the different exposure times and vice versa. The switching from the auto exposure mode to the HDR mode may be made by an automated method and a release of the HDR mode and a return to the auto exposure mode may also be made by an automated method.

For example in the automated method a predetermined switching condition is checked based on photographed image data and if the condition is satisfied the auto exposure mode may be automatically switched to the HDR mode. According to an embodiment in the automated method if the condition is not satisfied in the HDR mode the HDR mode may be automatically switched to the auto exposure mode.

In the auto exposure mode the image sensor may output first image data and second image data which may be referred to as first and second image data based on pixel values of the first and second groups of pixels. The first and second image data respectively based on the pixel values of the first and second groups of pixels are images containing one or more different pixels at the same exposure time and there may be no difference between luminance values thereof.

In the HDR mode the image sensor may output third image data based on pixel values of the first group of pixels and fourth image data based on pixel values of the second group of pixels. Here the third image data and the fourth image data are respectively generated by differentiating exposures of the first and second groups of pixels targeting an identical subject. For example the third image data may be a long exposure image data and the fourth image data may be a short exposure image data. The long exposure image data may obtained by making the exposure for the first group of pixels for a relatively long time and the short exposure image data may be obtained by making the exposure for the second group of pixels for a relatively short time. One HDR image may be created through correction and composition of the long exposure image data and the short exposure image data.

As described above the image sensor may have a function of adjusting the amount of exposure by the auto exposure controller . Namely the amount of exposure for the first and second groups of pixels of the image sensor may be adjusted by the auto exposure controller . In an embodiment of the present disclosure the amount of exposure for the first and second groups of pixels may be adjusted by an exposure time.

The plurality of pixels configuring the image sensor may be divided into two different pixel groups which are represented by shaded and not shaded pixels in and image data created by the plurality of pixels may be transferred to the image pre processor .

The image pre processor may pre process the image data transferred from the image sensor on the front end of the image signal processor . In a case of photographing a subject against backlight the image sensor may output the image data in which a subject located in front of the backlight becomes black on account of an under exposure and a background portion becomes white on account of an over exposure.

The image pre processor may perform image processing such as luminance data creation Bad Pixel Correction BPC reconstruction Dynamic Range Compression DRC and the like.

Since the image pre processor receives one piece of image data from the image sensor in the auto exposure mode the image pre processor may not perform the reconstruction function and may also omit the dynamic range compression function . In contrast in a case of composing two pieces of image data having different exposure times in the HDR mode a quality of the HDR image which is a composite image may be deteriorated due to data loss generated in the composing process. With this in mind the image pre processor may correct the two pieces of image data having the different exposure times to prevent deterioration of the image quality.

To this end the bad pixel correction the reconstruction and the dynamic range compression may serve as an example of image processing techniques that the image pre processor may perform. Here the reconstruction function may serve to form a long exposure image and a short exposure image using the pixel values contained in the long exposure image data and the short exposure image data and to merge them into one HDR image through interpolation and composition.

As described above the image data can be pre processed through some configurations of the image pre processor on the front end of the image signal processor . Furthermore the remaining image processing operations other than the image processing operations performed by the image pre processor may be performed by the image signal processor . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least one processor configured to process the image data for example the image pre processor the AP and the image signal processor may be independent of each other in the electronic device and it may be implemented as illustrated in that the image pre processor is disposed on the front end of the image signal processor and the image signal processor is included in the AP .

Referring to and in contrast to all or some configurations of the image pre processor may be implemented within the AP . Although the AP includes the image pre processor and an image signal processor in configurations of the image pre processor may also be implemented to be performed by the image signal processor in which case the image pre processor may be omitted.

The image signal processor may receive real time image data photographed by the image sensor and may process the image data to be suitable for screen characteristics such as a size a definition a resolution and the like of the display unit or screen characteristics of other display units. Such an image processing function includes functions such as gamma correction interpolation a spatial change an image effect an image scale Auto White Balance AWB Auto Exposure AE Auto Focus AF and the like. Furthermore the image signal processor may operate in an auto exposure mode based on at least one of a matrix metering type a touch auto exposure type a center weighted metering type and a spot metering type.

The image signal processor may be implemented to be included in the AP performing a multimedia function for smooth execution and control of various additional functions such as a camera function a multimedia data reproduction function and the like.

The image signal processor may configure a reference exposure time in the auto exposure mode. The reference exposure time may be a time interval during which a first group of pixels and a second group of pixels of the image sensor are equally exposed. Various methods may be used as a method of configuring the reference exposure time. The image signal processor according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may create a histogram based on luminance data and may use the histogram to determine a long exposure time and a short exposure time as well as the reference exposure time. That is the histogram analysis may be used to determine a degree of saturation of an image.

The image signal processor may determine whether a predetermined mode switching condition is satisfied based on pixel values of the first and second groups of pixels of the image sensor which are obtained for the reference exposure time. If the mode switching condition is satisfied the image signal processor may differently configure exposure times for the first and second groups of pixels by controlling an auto exposure controller . Accordingly the auto exposure controller may control an amount of exposure of the image sensor with reference to the configured exposure times namely the long exposure time and the short exposure time.

For example in a case of photographing a subject against the backlight the image sensor may output the image data in which a subject located in front of the backlight becomes black on account of an under exposure and a background portion becomes white on account of an over exposure. In this case even though the image signal processor controls the auto exposure controller to adjust the reference exposure time in the auto exposure mode an image to be displayed on the display unit consequently becomes brighter or darker on the whole. In this case a black portion caused by the under exposure and a white portion caused by the over exposure need to be corrected to have a different luminance. That is the black portion needs to be corrected to be brighter and the white portion needs to be corrected to be darker.

In a case of obtaining an image having both an over exposed region and an under exposed region in the auto exposure mode when a mode switching condition is satisfied through histogram analysis the image signal processor may switch to the HDR mode. Here the over exposed region may mean a case in which the number of pixel luminance values of the first and second groups of pixels which are higher than a first reference selected from the histogram is larger than a first threshold value and the under exposed region may mean a case in which the number of pixel luminance values of the first and second groups of pixels which are lower than a second reference selected from the histogram is smaller than a second threshold value.

Two or more pieces of image data captured with different exposure times may be output from the image sensor and the image pre processor may perform image pre processing for a long exposure image acquired with the long exposure time and a short exposure image acquired with the short exposure time. As described above according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the correction may be performed for a relatively dark region for example the black portion caused by the under exposure using the long exposure group of pixels in the image sensor . Since the long exposure group of pixels is exposed for a relatively longer period of time as compared with the short exposure group of pixels so that a large amount of light is input thereto an image with an appropriate exposure may be obtained using the long exposure group of pixels. Further correction may be performed for a relatively bright region for example the white portion caused by the over exposure using the short exposure group of pixels. The exposure time for the short exposure group of pixels is configured to be shorter than the exposure time for which an image is captured in the auto exposure mode thereby making it possible to correct the bright region.

Accordingly the image pre processor may create one HDR image by interpolating the long exposure image obtained by the long exposure group of pixels and the short exposure image obtained by the short exposure group of pixels. The image signal processor may display an HDR image see on the display unit . The HDR image similar to an image obtained by an appropriate adjustment of an exposure may be acquired in which case the background which was relatively bright due to the over exposure has an adjusted exposure that is adjusted such that luminance thereof is decreased and the subject which was relatively dark due to the under exposure has an adjusted exposure that is adjusted such that luminance thereof is increased.

The storage unit may include an image buffer storing the image formed based on the image data acquired from the image sensor according to frames. Furthermore the storage unit may store an auto exposure table for determining the reference exposure time in the auto exposure mode and an HDR table for determining the long exposure time and the short exposure time in the HDR mode. For example in a case where there are the over exposed region and the under exposed region on the histogram the related long and short exposure times may be extracted from the HDR table depending on the histogram. Table values may have for example a mean value experimentally measured in various photography environments as well as a basic setting value of a camera and may also be configured by a user through an option menu.

Although the electronic device may be configured to include the detailed constituent elements such as the image pre processor and the image signal processor as illustrated in the electronic device may be largely divided into an image sensor for converting image data into an electrical signal and an image processor for processing the electrical signal.

Referring to image data output from the image sensor may be transferred to an image acquisition unit and luminance data based on the image data may be transferred to a histogram calculating unit .

In a case of operating in an auto exposure mode the image acquisition unit may acquire from the image sensor at least one piece of image data obtained by using a first group of pixels and a second group of pixels at the same exposure time. If an image is captured in a bright outdoor space a white saturated portion caused by an over exposure may be generated on image data A and B obtained by using the first group of pixels and the second group of pixels at the same exposure time. Here in a case of the same exposure time there may be no luminance difference between image data A obtained based on the first group of pixels and image data B obtained based on the second group of pixels.

The histogram calculating unit may create a histogram based on the luminance values of the first group of pixels and the second group of pixels and may determine an over exposure or under exposure based on the histogram.

For example the histogram calculating unit may calculate luminance values for the image data A and the image data B received from the image sensor and an exposure time adjusting unit may stepwise differentiate information on the calculated luminance values and may determine a reference exposure time based on the differentiated luminance value information. Such a reference exposure time may be configured by various methods such as a method of configuring the reference exposure time with reference to a histogram of image data displayed in a preview mode prior to capturing.

The luminance values may be calculated based on luminance data generated by an image pre processor . The histogram calculating unit creates a histogram based on the luminance data in which the histogram a graph depicting a frequency distribution is used to measure an exposure of an image in a field of a camera and represents a distribution of brightness values for pixels in an image.

When the histogram calculating unit determines that the over exposure or under exposure has been generated the exposure time adjusting unit may adjust the reference exposure time of the first group of pixels and the second group of pixels and may adjust an exposure time of the image sensor under the control of an auto exposure controller . With the adjustment of the reference exposure time the luminance values of the image data transferred to the image acquisition unit may also be adjusted and after correction through an image correcting unit an output image creating unit may output an output image C of which a luminance value is adjusted according to the over exposure or under exposure. Accordingly the saturation phenomenon generated on the image data A and the image data B captured in the bright outdoor space disappears with the adjustment of the reference exposure time thereby obtaining the luminance adjusted for the output image C.

However when the over exposure and the under exposure are simultaneously generated on the image data on account of backlight it may be difficult to solve both the over exposure and the under exposure at one time only through the luminance adjustment. In an embodiment of the present disclosure when the over exposure and the under exposure are simultaneously generated the exposure times of the first and second groups of pixels may be changed to have mutually different states. Furthermore in another embodiment of the present disclosure when one of the over exposure and the under exposure is generated on image data captured with the same exposure time the exposure times of the first and second groups of pixels of the image sensor may be changed by an identical time.

To this end a comparison may be made between a case in which the number of pixel luminance values higher than a first reference selected based on the histogram in the histogram calculating unit is larger than a first threshold value and a case in which the number of pixel luminance values lower than a second reference selected based on the histogram is smaller than a second threshold value. A degree to which the number of pixel luminance values higher than the selected first reference is larger than a first threshold value may be mapped onto an exposure time of pixels that have to be processed with a short exposure. Furthermore a degree to which the number of pixel luminance values lower than the selected second reference is smaller than the second threshold value may be mapped onto an exposure time of pixels that have to be processed with a long exposure.

Accordingly if a ratio of the long exposure time to the short exposure time is larger than or equal to a threshold ratio the exposure time adjusting unit may determine the long exposure time and the short exposure time such that the exposure times of the first and second groups of pixels are different from each other. At this time the determination and the adjustment of the long and short exposure times may be made with reference to the pre stored HDR table. For example in determining the exposure time assuming that an exposure time for an appropriate exposure is 1 250 and an exposure ratio is 1 to 4 the long exposure pixels may have an exposure time of 1 125 and the short exposure pixels may have an exposure time of 1 500. Various pieces of image information detected from respective pixels may be combined through the controller of the electronic device to complete a captured image.

The auto exposure controller may control the image sensor depending on the long and short exposure times determined by the exposure time adjusting unit . Accordingly for the predetermined long exposure time long exposure image data may be obtained based on pixel values of pixels designated as a long exposure group of the image sensor and for the short exposure time short exposure image data may be obtained based on pixel values of pixels designated as a short exposure group of the image sensor.

The image acquisition unit may acquire two pieces of image data captured with different exposure times namely long exposure image data D and short exposure image data E. At this time the long exposure image data D captured with the different exposure time may be dark on the whole on account of an under exposure caused by backlight and the short exposure image data E may be bright on the whole on account of an over exposure. In this case the exposure time adjusting unit adjusts the long and short exposure times based on the histogram by the histogram calculating unit . Accordingly the long exposure image data and the short exposure image data which are captured with the adjusted long and short exposure times may be obtained. At this time the long exposure image data captured with the adjusted long exposure time may be image data of which the luminance is corrected for the under exposure and the short exposure image data captured with the adjusted short exposure time may be image data of which the luminance is corrected for the over exposure.

The image correcting unit may perform an operation of correcting a difference between the long exposure image data and the short exposure image data. Accordingly the output image creating unit may composite the long exposure image data and the short exposure image data and a composite image F which may also be referred to as an HDR image F may appear as an HDR image to a user. The HDR image F may be created by composing the corrected short exposure image and the corrected long exposure image. The luminance of the over exposed portion is decreased and the luminance of the under exposed portion is increased so that the HDR image F may appear as an image close to reality on the whole even in a backlight state. Thus an image having an expanded dynamic range may be obtained for the same subject.

At this time the bright region and the dark region of the image may vary depending on a capturing time point and or a subject. The electronic device provided with the image sensor according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure may also rearrange the long exposure pixels and the short exposure pixels by recognizing the bright region and the dark region on the image of the subject. Furthermore a specific region on the image may also be configured as a Region of Interest ROI according to an intention of a user manipulating the electronic device. To this end the image processing device may further include a target region detecting unit .

For example when under exposure or over exposure is generated in a portion where a face or text exists on an image the target region detecting unit may differently apply the long exposure time and or the short exposure time for the portion where the face or text exists as compared with other portions.

To this end the target region detecting unit may analyze the image data to detect the region where the face or text exists based on a face recognition algorithm and a text recognition algorithm. For example when the target region detecting unit detects a face in the over exposed region the exposure time adjusting unit may configure a ratio of the short exposure to be higher than the total exposure time and on the contrary when the target region detecting unit detects a face in the under exposed region the exposure time adjusting unit may configure a ratio of the long exposure to be higher than the total exposure time to perform photography and composition. Furthermore the target region detecting unit may configure the ratio of the long exposure to be higher in a region of interest on the image data. In a different way the target region detecting unit may control such that more long exposure pixels are arranged in the region of interest on the image data than the short exposure pixels.

Referring to it is exemplified that a first group of pixels which may be the first plurality of pixels and a second group of pixels which may be the second plurality of pixels of the image sensor are arranged according to a pattern selected from some regions of an array. In a case where the first group of pixels is defined as long exposure pixels and the second group of pixels is defined as short exposure pixels the long and short exposure pixels may have a polygonal shape. For example an arrangement may be made such that at least two immediately adjacent pixels of the long exposure pixels do not share one side of a polygon and at least two immediately adjacent pixels of the short exposure pixels do not share one side of a polygon.

Through the arrangement described above as illustrated in a cross stripe pattern may be represented in which horizontal lines configured with the long exposure pixels and vertical lines configured with the short exposure pixels intersect each other at a predetermined distance in which case the distance by which the horizontal lines intersect the vertical lines may be mutually different. Accordingly the long exposure pixels and the short exposure pixels may appear as a stepwise pattern in a diagonal direction.

Although the three long exposure pixels or the three short exposure pixels are arranged at a predetermined distance in the aforementioned embodiment various arrangements can be made. For example at least two of the first group of pixels and one of the second group of pixels may be alternately arranged.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure amounts of exposure of the first and second groups of pixels may be configured to be different from each other depending on a dynamic range of bright and dark regions of an image formed on the image sensor. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the amounts of exposure of the first and second groups of pixels may be configured by at least one of an exposure time photoelectric conversion efficiency and aperture settings.

The image sensor according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure may be controlled by a method including an operation of configuring some of the pixels configuring the image sensor as a first pixel group detecting a subject image for a preconfigured exposure time and an operation of configuring at least some of the remaining pixels configuring the image sensor as a second pixel group detecting the subject image for an exposure time configured to be shorter than that of the first pixel group.

According to an embodiment from among the pixels corresponding to a region of an image formed on the image sensor pixels configured to have a high pixel output value may be arranged as pixels belonging to the first pixel group and pixels configured to have a low pixel output value may be arranged as pixels belonging to the second pixel group.

According to an embodiment an arrangement of the pixels configuring the first pixel group and the pixels configuring the second pixel group may be dynamically allocated through the above described method.

According to an embodiment the pixels configuring the first pixel group and the pixels configuring the second pixel group may be arranged in a repeated or irregular pattern through the above described method.

According to an embodiment the above described method enables the pixels of the second pixel group to detect an exposure image at least twice with different exposure times while the pixels of the first pixel group are being exposed.

According to an embodiment through the above described method an ROI may be configured on the image formed on the image sensor and more pixels configuring the first pixel group may be arranged in the ROI than the pixels configuring the second pixel group.

Various arrangements that is patterns and of a first group of pixels which may be referred to as long exposure pixels and a second group of pixels which may be referred to as short exposure pixels of the image sensor are illustrated in . For example as described above the live HDR function can be performed by dividing pixels in the pattern configuring the image sensor into at least two pixel groups having different exposure amount settings and arranging the divided pixel groups. As illustrated in the long exposure pixels and the short exposure pixels may be arranged in any of the patterns and which may be referred to as repeated patterns and or arranged in any of the patterns and which may be referred to as irregular patterns and .

Dividing the pixels of the pattern configuring the image sensor into at least two pixel groups having the different exposure amount settings and arranging the divided pixel groups may be fixedly configured in a process of manufacturing the image sensor or dynamically configured according to a capturing mode of a device to which the image sensor is mounted.

In describing various embodiments of the present disclosure the expression the exposure amount settings are different from each other may mean that a duration of time for which the long exposure pixels are exposed is different from a duration of time for which the short exposure pixels are exposed. In order to differently configure the amounts of exposure the short exposure pixels and the long exposure pixels may be simultaneously exposed in some embodiments. On the contrary it is not necessary to simultaneously expose the long exposure pixels and the short exposure pixels . In some embodiments in order to differently configure the amounts of exposure photoelectric conversion efficiency of the long exposure pixels may be configured to be different from that of the short exposure pixels . In some embodiments in order to differently configure the amounts of exposure aperture setting of the long exposure pixels may be configured to be different from that of the short exposure pixels . In some embodiments in order to differently configure the amounts of exposure a pixel size of the long exposure pixels may be configured to be different from that of the short exposure pixels or an amount of light input to a pixel per unit time may be adjusted through a control of a lens or filter.

Referring to in the image sensor according to various embodiments of the present disclosure a second pixel group which may be referred to as Group 2 configured with second pixels for example a group of short exposure pixels starts an exposure operation later than a first pixel group which may be referred to as Group 1 configured with first pixels for example a group of long exposure pixels and the pixels of the first pixel group and the pixels of the second pixel group may simultaneously complete the exposure operation.

Referring to in the image sensor according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the pixels of the first pixel group and the pixels of the second pixel group may simultaneously start an exposure operation and the pixels of the second pixel group may complete the exposure operation earlier than the pixels of the first pixel group. In addition although not illustrated the pixels of the second pixel group Group 2 may also start an exposure operation later and complete the exposure operation earlier as compared with the pixels of the first pixel group Group 1 .

Referring to in the image sensor according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the pixels of the first pixel group and the pixels of the second pixel group may simultaneously start an exposure operation perform the exposure operation with different photoelectric efficiency and simultaneously complete the exposure operation.

Referring to in the image sensor according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the second pixel group may start an exposure operation later than the first pixel group and the first and second pixel groups may perform the exposure operation with different photoelectric efficiency and then simultaneously complete the exposure operation.

Referring to in the image sensor according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the pixels of the first pixel group and the pixels of the second pixel group may simultaneously start an exposure operation and perform the exposure operation with different photoelectric efficiency and the second pixel group may complete the exposure operation earlier than the first pixel group. As described above the first and second pixel groups may also have different exposure times while operating with different photoelectric conversion efficiency.

An image sensor according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be provided with color filters corresponding to the long exposure pixels and the short exposure pixels . For example the color filters may include a white light filter W a red light filter R a green light filter G a blue light filter B or a filter transmitting or interrupting another color of light. The color filters may have a different transmittance depending on a wavelength of incident light. For example referring to the white light filter W may have a higher normalized sensitivity ratio as compared with the red green and blue light filters R G and B and normalized sensitivity ratios of the red green and blue light filters R G and B may be similar to each other. Accordingly for the same exposure time pixels arranged to correspond to the white light filter W may have more exposure than other pixels.

Referring to a description will be given with reference to in order to help with comprehension of operations illustrated in . As shown in at operation an electronic device acquires image data captured through the image sensor with a reference exposure time for which an amount of exposure of a first group of pixels is the same as that of a second group of pixels and then in operation the electronic device may create a histogram for the image data. The histogram may be created based on luminance data and may be used to determine a long exposure time and a short exposure time as well as the reference exposure time.

Referring to there may be bright and dark regions in an image according to a capture time point and or a subject and for example in the case of capturing a subject against backlight a luminance difference between bright and dark regions in the captured image may be considerably large. Accordingly as illustrated in there may be an over exposed region and an under exposed region on the histogram.

In the histogram illustrated in the over exposed region may mean a case in which the number of pixel luminance values of the first and second groups of pixels higher than a second reference luminance value is larger than a first threshold value and the under exposed region may mean a case in which the number of pixel luminance values of the first and second groups of pixels lower than a first reference luminance value is smaller than a second threshold value. Accordingly the over exposed region of the image having a relatively high luminance value may be highly distributed while being biased to a right side of the histogram. Furthermore the under exposed region of the image having a relatively low luminance value may be highly distributed while being biased to a left side of the histogram.

Accordingly in operation the electronic device may determine whether the over exposure and the under exposure exist in the histogram. If both the over exposure and the under exposure exist in the histogram the electronic device may adjust a long exposure time and or a short exposure time in operation . In other words the electronic device may adjust at least one of exposure times of the first and second groups of pixels such that the exposure times of the first and second groups of pixels are different from each other.

However only one of the over exposure and the under exposure may be generated in the image data captured while the exposure times of the first and second groups of pixels are identical to each other. When it is determined in operation that the over exposure and the under exposure do not coexist together the electronic device may adjust the reference exposure time in operation . Furthermore in the case where the over exposure and the under exposure do not coexist together the function of adjusting the reference exposure time i.e. operation may include a function of maintaining the reference exposure time. Here since the exposure times of the first and second groups of pixels were identical to the reference exposure time the adjustment of the reference exposure time may mean changing the exposure times of the first and second groups of pixels by an identical time. A degree of changing the exposure times may be determined based on the histogram. Here independently of the adjustment of the reference exposure time or the long and short exposure times an image signal processor may perform a control such that an image is created based on image data captured with the adjusted reference exposure time or the adjusted long and short exposure times and is displayed on a display unit .

Specifically the electronic device may compare a degree to which the number of pixel luminance values higher than the first reference selected based on the histogram is larger than the second threshold value with a degree to which the number of pixel luminance values lower than the selected second reference is smaller than the first threshold value. Accordingly when the degree to which the number of pixel luminance values higher than or equal to the selected reference is larger than the first threshold value is mapped onto the short exposure time and the degree to which the number of pixel luminance values lower than or equal to the selected another reference is smaller than the first threshold value is mapped onto the long exposure time a ratio of the long exposure time to the short exposure time may be calculated through a histogram analysis.

When the ratio of the long exposure time to the short exposure time is larger than a first threshold ratio the electronic device may switch to a mode for adjusting the long exposure time and or the short exposure time. When the ratio of the long exposure time to the short exposure time is not larger than the first threshold ratio the electronic device may change the long exposure time and the short exposure time by an identical time. That is the electronic device may adjust the reference exposure time. When the ratio of the long exposure time to the short exposure time based on the histogram is smaller than or equal to a second threshold ratio while the electronic device operates in the mode for adjusting the long exposure time and or the short exposure time the electronic device may return to the auto exposure mode and this will be described below with reference to . Here the first and second threshold ratios may have the same value.

The electronic device may acquire long exposure image data captured with the adjusted long exposure time and short exposure image data captured with the adjusted short exposure time in operation and may create histograms based on the long exposure image data and the short exposure image data i.e. for the respective image data in operation . The electronic device may calculate a ratio of the long exposure time to the short exposure time based on the histogram in operation and may determine whether the ratio of the long exposure time to the short exposure time is larger than or equal to a threshold ratio in operation . If the ratio of the long exposure time to the short exposure time is larger than or equal to the threshold ratio the electronic device may adjust the long exposure time and or the short exposure time in operation and may the determine if the capturing is completed in operation . On the other hand if the ratio of the long exposure time to the short exposure time is not larger than or equal to the threshold ratio as determined in operation the electronic device may return to operation to adjust the reference exposure time. As described above according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure in the case where the ratio of the long exposure time to the short exposure time is not smaller than or according to a design choice not larger than the threshold ratio the image signal processor may control such that an HDR image is created through interpolation based on the image data captured with the adjusted long and short exposure times and is displayed on the display unit .

Referring to a description will be given with reference to in order to help with comprehension of operations illustrated in . As shown in in operation an electronic device may acquire image data captured in a state in which a first plurality of pixels have the same exposure time as that of a second plurality of pixels. Thereafter in operation a determination is made as to whether at least one of a first condition and a second condition is satisfied. Here the first condition may represent whether the number of pixel luminance values higher than a first reference among the image data is larger than a first threshold value and the second condition may represent whether the number of pixel luminance values lower than a second reference among the image data is smaller than a second threshold value.

When it is determined in operation that the first or second condition is satisfied the electronic device may change the exposure times of the first plurality of pixels and the second plurality of pixels by an identical time in operation . On the contrary when it is determined in operation that both the first condition and the second condition are satisfied the electronic device may make a change such that the first plurality of pixels have an exposure time different from that of the second plurality of pixels in operation .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when a ratio of a short exposure time to a long exposure time is larger than a threshold ratio the electronic device for example a processor included in the electronic device may be configured to control the image sensor such that the first plurality of pixels are changed to have an exposure time different from that of the second plurality of pixels in which the short exposure time is an exposure time corresponding to a degree to which the number of pixel luminance values higher than the selected first reference is larger than the first threshold value and the long exposure time is an exposure time corresponding to a degree to which the number of pixel luminance values lower than the selected second reference is larger than the second threshold value.

Furthermore according to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the first plurality of pixels are changed to have the different exposure time from the second plurality of pixels the processor may be configured to form an HDR image by performing at least one image processing of reconstruction and dynamic range compression based on first image data obtained from the first plurality of pixels and second image data obtained from the second plurality of pixels.

If the ratio of the exposure times of the plurality of pixels having the different exposure times does not exceed the threshold ratio the electronic device may operate in the auto exposure mode in which the first plurality of pixels have the same exposure time as that of the second plurality of pixels. The image processing such as the reconstruction and the dynamic range compression may be omitted in the auto exposure mode.

Referring to a state in which an exposure time of a first plurality of pixels is identical to that of a second plurality of pixels may be changed to a state in which the exposure time of the first plurality of pixels is different from that of the second plurality of pixels or a state in which the exposure times of the first plurality of pixels and the second plurality of pixels are changed by an identical time. The state change may be made based on a histogram on the basis of image data of the first plurality of pixels and the second plurality of pixels.

For example if a histogram including both an over exposed region and an under exposed region is created based on the image data of the first plurality of pixels and the second plurality of pixels in the state in which the exposure times are identical to each other the state may be changed to the state in which the exposure times are different from each other. Furthermore if a histogram including an over exposed region or a histogram including an under exposed region is created in the state in which the exposure times are identical to each other the state may be changed to the state in which the exposure times are changed.

On the contrary if a histogram having uniformly distributed pixel values is created based on the image data of the first plurality of pixels and the second plurality of pixels in the state in which the exposure times are different from each other a return may be made to the state in which the exposure times are identical to each other. However if a histogram including both an over exposed region and an under exposed region is created based on the image data of the first plurality of pixels and the second plurality of pixels in the state in which the exposure times are different from each other a change may be made to the state in which the currently different exposure times are changed by an identical time. If a histogram created in the state has a uniform distribution a change may be made to the state in which the exposure times of the first plurality of pixels and the second plurality of pixels are identically configured.

Referring to for example if an amount of exposure of a first group of pixels of the image sensor namely an amount of exposure of long exposure pixels is adjusted to correspond to an under exposed region the under exposed portion may be changed to have a relatively uniform luminance value distribution as illustrated in .

Referring to here it is assumed that an image prior to an adjustment of an exposure time is an image captured in an auto exposure mode in which an exposure time of a first group of pixels is identical to that of a second group of pixels and an image after the adjustment of the exposure time is a long exposure image captured in an HDR mode.

As shown in when a light source is behind a subject in the image prior to the adjustment of the exposure time the subject appears darker than it really is on account of under exposure. However after the exposure time for the long exposure pixels is increased a long exposure of the image may be obtained in which luminance of a subject has been corrected. As described above the exposure time is configured to be longer than the general exposure by adjusting the exposure time of the long exposure pixels thereby obtaining the image in which the under exposed region is alleviated.

Referring to if an amount of exposure of a second group of pixels of the image sensor namely an amount of exposure of short exposure pixels is adjusted to correspond to an over exposed region an over exposed region may be changed to have a relatively uniform luminance value distribution as illustrated in . Such a change will be described below with reference to .

Referring to in an image prior to an adjustment of an exposure time a background portion appears much brighter than it really is on account of an over exposure. However after the exposure time for the short exposure pixels is decreased a short exposure image may be obtained in which luminance of a background has been corrected as compared with the image prior to the adjustment of the exposure timed. As described above the exposure time is configured to be shorter than the general exposure by adjusting the exposure time of the short exposure pixels thereby obtaining the image in which the over exposed region is alleviated.

Meanwhile in when the backlight is recognized in the auto exposure mode the HDR mode is triggered. However in a case where the backlight disappears in the HDR mode it is desirable that a return be made to the auto exposure mode by releasing the HDR mode. In switching from the live HDR mode according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure to the auto exposure mode a process of controlling the image sensor will be described below with reference to FIG. .

Referring to an electronic device may acquire long exposure image data captured with a long exposure time and short exposure image data captured with a short exposure time in operation and may create a histogram for the long and short exposure image data based on the respective image data in operation . The electronic device may calculate a ratio of the long exposure time to the short exposure time based on the histogram in operation and may determine whether the ratio of the long exposure time to the short exposure time is larger than a threshold ratio in operation . If the ratio is larger than or equal to the threshold ratio the electronic device may adjust the long exposure time and or the short exposure time in operation and if the ratio is not larger than the threshold ratio the electronic device may apply a reference exposure time in operation .

In another embodiment of the present disclosure a third threshold ratio may also be defined according to the purpose for capturing the image. For example in a case where it is needed to capture an image for Optical Character Recognition OCR even though text detection is desired in some regions of the image an entrance to the HDR mode may not be made if a ratio of a short exposure time to a long exposure time of the image is smaller than or equal to a first threshold ratio. In this case the text may be detected and recognized by applying the third threshold ratio smaller than a reference threshold ratio.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure a histogram may be analyzed by using a plurality of image sensors. For example first short and long exposure times and second short and long exposure times may be calculated based on image data output from first and second image sensors. Here a ratio of the first short exposure time to the first long exposure time and a ratio of the second short exposure time to the second long exposure time are compared with a threshold ratio and an operation of an HDR mode may be adjusted depending on the result of the comparison. For example in a case where switching between the HDR mode and the auto exposure mode is frequently made depending on a change of lighting in order to prevent blinking of an image displayed on a screen operations may be performed in the HDR mode only when both the ratio of the first short exposure time to the first long exposure time and the ratio of the second short exposure time to the second long exposure time exceeds the threshold ratio.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure an HDR mode using a plurality of image sensors may be applied. For example an HDR image may be provided and or generated by composing images based on pixel values of short exposure pixels of a first image sensor and long exposure pixels of a second image sensor.

Referring to an electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory a user input module a display module and a communication module .

The bus may be a circuit connecting the aforementioned elements and transferring communication e.g. a control message between the aforementioned elements.

For example the processor may receive instructions from the aforementioned other elements e.g. the memory the user input module the display module and the communication module through the bus decipher the received instructions and perform calculation or data processing according to the deciphered instructions.

The memory may store instructions and or data which is received from the processor and or other elements e.g. the user input module the display module and the communication module and or created by the processor and or other elements. The memory may include programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API applications and the like. Each of the programming modules described above may be configured with software firmware hardware and or combinations of two or more thereof.

The kernel may control and or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and the like used to perform operations and or functions implemented in the remaining programming modules for example the middleware the API and the applications . Furthermore the kernel may provide an interface through which the middleware the API and the applications may access individual elements of the electronic device to control and or manage them.

The middleware may serve as an intermediary such that the API and the applications communicate with the kernel to transmit receive data. Furthermore in regard to task requests received from the plurality of applications the middleware may perform load balancing for the task requests by using for example a method of assigning a priority for using the system resources e.g. the bus the processor and the memory of the electronic device to at least one of the applications .

The API is an interface through which the applications may control functions provided by the kernel and the middleware and may include at least one interface and or function for file control window control image processing and or text control.

The user input module for example may receive instructions and or data from a user and may transfer the received instructions and or data to the processor and or the memory through the bus . The display module may display images and or data to a user.

The communication module may connect communication between another electronic device and the electronic device and or between a server and the electronic device . The communication module may support a short range communication protocol e.g. Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi BlueTooth BT and or Near Field Communication NFC or may use a network e.g. the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Wire Area Network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network or a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS for communication. The other electronic device may be a same device e.g. a same type of device as the electronic device or a different device e.g. a different type of device from the electronic device .

Referring to hardware may be for example the electronic device illustrated in . As shown in the hardware may include at least one processor which may be referred to as a processor a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a communication module a sensor module a user input module a display module an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The processor which may be similar to the processor may include at least one AP and or at least one Communication Processor CP . The processor may be for example the processor illustrated in . Although the AP and the CP are included in the processor in and the AP and the CP may be included in different Integrated Circuit IC packages respectively. In an embodiment the AP and the CP may be included in one IC package.

The AP may control a plurality of hardware and or software elements connected thereto by driving an operating system or an application program and may perform processing and calculation of various pieces of data including multimedia data. The AP may be implemented as for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment the processor may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not illustrated .

The CP may perform a function of managing data links and converting communication protocols in communication between an electronic device e.g. the electronic device including the hardware and other electronic devices connected with the electronic device through a network. The CP may be implemented as for example a Soc. According to an embodiment the CP may perform at least some of multimedia control functions. The CP may distinguish and authenticate the electronic devices in a communication network by using for example a subscriber identification module such as the SIM card . Furthermore the CP may provide a user with services such as a voice call service a video call service a text message service and packet data service.

Moreover the CP may control data transmission reception of the communication module . Although the elements such as the CP the power management unit and the memory are illustrated separately from the AP in the AP may be implemented to include at least some of the aforementioned elements e.g. the CP according to an embodiment.

According to an embodiment the AP and or the CP may load instructions and or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory or other elements connected thereto in a volatile memory and may process the same. In addition the AP or the CP may store data received from and or created by at least one of other elements in the non volatile memory.

The SIM card may be a card embodying a subscriber identification module and may be inserted into a slot formed at a specific position of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information e.g. an Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCD or subscriber information e.g. an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory may include an internal memory and or an external memory . The memory may be for example the memory illustrated in . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM or the like and or a non volatile memory e.g. a Read Only Memory ROM a One Time Programmable ROM OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory or the like. According to an embodiment the internal memory may have a form of a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD a memory stick or the like.

The communication module may include a wireless communication module and or a Radio Frequency RF module . The communication module may be for example the communication module illustrated in . The wireless communication module may include for example a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS and or a NFC module . For example the wireless communication module may provide a wireless communication function using a wireless frequency. Additionally or alternatively the wireless communication module may include a network interface not shown such as a LAN card and or a modem not shown for connecting the hardware with a network such as the network of e.g. the Internet a LAN a WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network a POTS or the like.

The RF module serves to perform data transmission reception for example transmission reception of an RF signal and or a paged electronic signal. Although not illustrated the RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amplifier Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA and or the like. Furthermore the RF module may further include a component for transmitting receiving an electromagnetic wave in a free space in wireless communication for example a conductor a conductive wire or the like.

The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a Red Green Blue RGB sensor H a bio sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illuminance sensor K and an Ultra Violet UV sensor M. The sensor module measures a physical quantity and or senses an operation state of the electronic device and may convert the measured or sensed information into an electric signal. Additionally the sensor module may include for example an E nose sensor not illustrated an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor not illustrated an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor not illustrated an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor not illustrated a fingerprint sensor or the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included therein.

The user input module may include a touch panel a pen sensor a key and or an ultrasonic input device . The user input module may be for example the user input module illustrated in . The touch panel may recognize a touch input through at least one of for example a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an acoustic wave type of touch panel. Further the touch panel may also further include a controller not illustrated . In the case of the capacitive type proximity recognition as well as a direct touch is possible. The touch panel may also further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile response to a user.

The pen sensor may be implemented for example using a method identical and or similar to receiving a user s touch input and or using a separate recognition sheet. For example a keypad or a touch key may be used as the key . The ultrasonic input device is a device that may identify data by detecting a sound wave from the electronic device to a microphone e.g. a microphone through a pen generating an ultrasonic wave signal and wireless recognition is possible therethrough. According to an embodiment the hardware may also receive a user input from an external device e.g. a network a computer and or a server connected with the communication module using the communication module .

The display module may include a panel and or a hologram . The display module may be for example the display module illustrated in . For example the panel may be a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED or any suitable and or similar type of display device. The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent and or wearable. The panel may also be configured as one module together with the touch panel . The hologram may show a three dimensional image in the air using an interference of light. According to an embodiment the display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel and or the hologram .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB a projector or a D subminiature D sub . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a Secure Digital SD Multi Media Card MMC not illustrated and or Infrared Data Association IrDA device not illustrated .

The audio module may bilaterally convert between a voice and an electrical signal. The audio module may convert voice information input and or output through for example a speaker a receiver an earphone and or the microphone .

The camera unit may photograph a still image and a moving image and according to an embodiment may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front lens and or a rear lens not illustrated an Image Signal Processor ISP not illustrated and or flash LED not illustrated .

The power management unit may manage power of the hardware . Although not illustrated the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger IC and or a battery fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted in for example an IC and or an SoC semiconductor. Charging methods may be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC may charge a battery and may prevent introduction of over voltage and or over current from a charger. According to an embodiment the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. A magnetic resonance scheme a magnetic induction scheme and or an electromagnetic wave scheme may be exemplified as the wireless charging method and an additional circuit for wireless charging such as a coil loop circuit a resonance circuit a rectifier circuit and the like may be added.

The battery fuel gauge may measure for example a residual quantity of the battery and a voltage a current and or a temperature while charging. The battery may generate electricity to supply power and may be for example a rechargeable battery.

The indicator may display a particular state for example a booting state a message state and or a charging state of the hardware and or some of the hardware e.g. the AP . The motor may convert an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration.

Although not illustrated the hardware may include a processing unit e.g. a GPU for mobile TV support. The processing unit for the mobile TV support may process media data according to a standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow or the like.

Each of the aforementioned elements of the hardware according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be configured with one or more components and names of the elements may vary depending on a type of the electronic device. The hardware according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned elements or may further include other additional elements and or some of the aforementioned elements may be omitted. Furthermore some of the elements of the hardware according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be combined into one entity which may perform the same functions as those of the elements before the combination.

The term module used in the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including one or more combinations of hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeably used with a term such as unit logic logical block component or circuit. The module may be a minimum unit or a part of the integrally formed component. The module may be a minimum unit performing one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically and or electronically implemented. For example the module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs and a programmable logic device for performing operations which are known and or are to be developed hereinafter.

Referring to a programming module may be included e.g. stored in the electronic device for example in the memory illustrated in . At least a part of the programming module may be configured with software firmware hardware and or combinations of two or more thereof. The programming module may include an operating system that is implemented in hardware e.g. the hardware to control resources related to an electronic device e.g. the electronic device and or various applications e.g. applications driven on the operating system. For example the operating system may be Android iOS Windows Symbian Tizen Bada or the like. Referring to the programming module may include a kernel a middleware an API and applications .

The kernel which may be similar to the kernel may include a system resource manager and or a device driver . The system resource manager may include for example although not illustrated a process managing unit a memory managing unit and or a file system managing unit. The system resource manager may perform control allocation and or collection of system resources. The device driver may include for example although not illustrated a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a shared memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a Wi Fi driver and or an audio driver. Furthermore according to one embodiment the device driver may include an Inter Process Communication IPC driver not illustrated .

The middleware may include a plurality of modules implemented in advance to provide functions which the applications commonly need. Furthermore the middleware may provide functions through the API such that the applications may efficiently use restricted system resources within the electronic device. For example as illustrated in the middleware which may be similar to the middleware may include at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager and or a security manager .

The runtime library may include a library module not illustrated used by a compiler in order to add a new function through a programming language while the applications are being executed. According to an embodiment the runtime library may perform an input output function a memory management function and or a function for an arithmetic function.

For example the application manager may manage a life cycle of at least one of the applications . The window manager may manage Graphical User Interface GUI resources used by a screen. The multimedia manager may discern formats needed for reproduction of various media files and may perform encoding and or decoding of the media file by using a codec suitable for the corresponding format. The resource manager may manage resources such as a source code a memory and a storage space of at least one of the applications .

The power manager may manage a battery and or power while operating together with a Basic Input Output System BIOS and may provide power information needed for operations. The database manager may manage generation search and or change of a database to be used by at least one of the applications . The package manager may manage installation and or an update of an application distributed in a form of a package file.

For example the connectivity manager may manage wireless connectivity such as Wi Fi and or Bluetooth. The notification manager may display and or notify of an event such as an arrival message promise proximity notification and the like in such a way that a user is not disturbed. The location manager may manage location information of the electronic device. The graphic manager may manage a graphic effect which will be provided to a user and a user interface related to the graphic effect. The security manager may provide all security functions required for system security or user authentication. According to an embodiment in a case where the electronic device e.g. the electronic device has a telephone call function the middleware may further include a telephony manager not illustrated for managing a voice or video call function of the electronic device.

The middleware may generate and use a new middleware module through various functional combinations of the aforementioned internal element modules. The middleware may provide modules specialized according to types of operating systems in order to provide differentiated functions. Furthermore the middleware may dynamically remove some of the existing elements and or add new elements. Accordingly the middleware may exclude some of the elements described in the various embodiments of the present disclosure further include other elements and or substitute the elements with elements having a different name and performing a similar function.

The API e.g. the API is a set of API programming functions and may be provided with a different configuration according to an operating system. For example in a case of Android or iOS one API set may be provided for each of platforms and in a case of Tizen two or more API sets may be provided.

The applications which may be similar to the applications may include for example a preloaded application and or a third party application which may include a home application a diary application an SMS MMS application an IM application a browser application a camera application an alarm application a contact application a voice dial application an e mail application a calendar application a media player application an album application a clock application and any other similar and or suitable applications.

At least a part of the programming module may be implemented with instructions stored in computer readable storage media. When the instructions are executed by at least one processor e.g. the processor the at least one processor may perform functions corresponding to the instructions. The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented e.g. executed by for example the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions and or a process for performing one or more functions.

Names of the elements of the programming module e.g. the programming module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may vary depending on a type of the operation system. The programming module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include one or more of the aforementioned elements and or may further include other additional elements and or some of the aforementioned elements may be omitted. The operations performed by a programming module and or other elements according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be processed through a sequential parallel repetitive and or heuristic method and some of the operations may be omitted and or other operations may be added.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

