---

title: Systems and methods for verifying human interaction with a computer interface
abstract: Exemplary methods and systems for verifying human interaction with a computer interface are described herein. An exemplary method includes a human-interaction verification system detecting a request by an access device to access network-based content, providing, for display by the access device, a visually dynamic representation of one or more security images associated with a passcode in response to the access request, receiving, by way of the access device, challenge-response input associated with the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images, and performing an access operation based at least in part on a comparison of the challenge-response input to the passcode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09614837&OS=09614837&RS=09614837
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09614837
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140827
---
With advances in network technologies users are able to interact in many different ways with services and content provided via networks. For example a user of a computing device is able to purchase goods from online retailers post comments on online content such as news articles or blogs participate in message boards and participate in user surveys and polls. Through such interactive network based services and content users may interact not only with computers and software applications that provide network services and content but also with other users thus providing a rich experience for the users.

Unfortunately automated software applications have been developed to mimic human interactions with computer interfaces through which network based services and content are accessed often for malicious purposes. For example malicious bots may add large amounts of spam such as advertising links on comment boards and other online content repeatedly vote in polls to skew poll results carry out denial of service attacks harvest email addresses for spamming and artificially increase traffic numbers for certain websites or online content. While some security measures have been developed to detect non human interaction with computer interfaces and deny access to network based services and content by non human users malicious bots are increasingly able to bypass conventional security measures.

Methods and systems for verifying human interaction with a computer interface are described herein. For example as will be described below a human interaction verification system may detect a request by an access device to access network based content provide for display by the access device a visually dynamic representation of one or more security images associated with a passcode in response to the request receive by way of the access device challenge response input associated with the visually dynamic representation of one or more security images and perform at least one access operation based at least in part on a comparison of the challenge response input to the passcode.

To illustrate the human interaction verification system may detect an access request by an access device to access network based content from a content provider. In response the human interaction verification system may provide a challenge response test that requires a visually dynamic perception task to be performed in order to satisfy the challenge response test. For example the human interaction verification system may provide for display by the access device a visually dynamic representation of one or more security images associated with a passcode. The human interaction verification system may receive challenge response input associated with the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images e.g. a passcode guess and compare the challenge response input with the passcode. The human interaction verification system may then perform one or more access operations based at least in part on the results of the comparison such as by allowing access to the network based content if the challenge response input matches the passcode or denying access to the network based content if the challenge response input does not match the passcode.

The visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images may be viewable over time e.g. over a continuous time period during which the visually dynamic representation is presented by a human user interacting with a computer interface and may facilitate the human user ascertaining the passcode based on the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images. On the other hand a non human entity such as a bot or other automated script that uses screen capture and or image recognition technologies interacting with a computer interface may be unable to ascertain the passcode from the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images.

A computer interface may include any type of computer implemented interface e.g. a software firmware middleware and or hardware interface that allows a human user or non human entity to communicate with e.g. provide input to receive output from and or otherwise interact with one or more computing devices. A computer interface may include and or utilize any communication technologies suitable to support interaction by a human or non human entity with a computing device application and or other computing component. For example a computer interface may include a graphical user interface a communication interface e.g. including one or more communication protocols for a communication interface a network interface an application programming interface API an operating system a database interface e.g. a Structured Query Language SQL based interface and or any other interface to a computing device application and or other computing component. A computer interface may be interacted with by a human and or non human entity to access network based content provided by a content provider.

The human interaction verification system may selectively grant human users interacting with a computer interface access to network based content and deny non human entities access to the network based content. Examples of visually dynamic representations of one or more security images associated with a passcode and how the visually dynamic representations may facilitate a determination by the human interaction verification system as to whether a human user or a non human entity is interacting with a computer interface to request access to network based content are described herein.

Challenge response test management facility may detect a request for access to network based content. As used herein a request for access or access request may refer to a request received by way of an access device to access network based content. As also used herein network based content may refer to any content or service that is provided by a content provider and or any other entity and may be available for access by an access device e.g. a computing device by way of a network. Network based content may include any content or services available for experiencing by a user of an access device. Network based content may be in any format that may be accessed and processed by an access device. For example network based content may include media content in any format e.g. video audio images etc. documents text communications e.g. audio calls video calls messaging chats interactive communications etc. content applications e.g. software applications and or any other content that may be accessed and processed by an access device. Examples of network based content may include without limitation websites news articles blogs comment boards user polls and surveys online retail services network storage services cloud storage services financial services social media services social networking services and software applications.

Network based content may be accessed in any suitable manner. For example network based content may be accessed by an access device by downloading presenting displaying streaming printing executing an application or otherwise outputting the network based content. A human user or a non human entity interacting with a computer interface may provide input to or by way of the access device to indicate a desire to access network based content. For example a human user may input a Uniform Resource Locator URL address or select a displayed hyperlink in a browser application running on the access device in order to access and view a website.

Challenge response test management facility may detect a request for access to network based content in any suitable way. For example challenge response test management facility may receive a request to access network based content from an access device. As another example challenge response test management facility may receive a notification of a request to access network based content. For instance challenge response test management facility may receive a notification of the access request from a network based content provider which may have received an access request from an access device and sent the notification of the access request to challenge response test management facility .

In response to detecting the request for access or a notification of a request for access challenge response test management facility may obtain and use a challenge response test to manage access to the network based content. As used herein a challenge response test may include a passcode and any security image or set of security images associated with the passcode. A passcode may refer to any characters text letters numbers symbols signs marks figures or combinations thereof hereinafter referred to individually or collectively as characters that are capable of being inputted by a human user interacting with an access device. A passcode may be stored in storage repository as passcode data representative of the passcode. Challenge response test management facility may also obtain the challenge response test at any other suitable time as may serve a particular implementation. For example challenge response test management facility may obtain and store the challenge response test in storage repository prior to detecting the request for access. For example the challenge response test may be pre defined and pre stored in storage repository for use when a request for access is detected by challenge response test management facility .

The challenge response test may be administered by challenge response test management facility to require a visually dynamic perception task to be successfully performed in order to gain access to network based content. For example challenge response test management facility may provide for display by the access device a visually dynamic representation of one or more security images associated with the passcode as will be described in more detail below. A user may then be allowed access to network based content by providing by way of the access device challenge response input matching the passcode associated with one or more security images provided for display by the access device.

A security image included in the challenge response test may include a graphical representation of all or a portion of the characters included in the passcode. For example if the passcode included in the challenge response test is HOMERUN the security image may depict a graphical representation of the word HOMERUN. In other words the characters of the passcode may be provided in an image format rather than a text format e.g. a format that uses character encoding . Additionally or alternatively the security image may include one or more graphical objects. In certain examples the one or more graphical objects may be included in the security image in addition to the graphical representation of the passcode characters. For instance a security image may include one or more graphical objects forming a background a border a watermark and or any other design feature in addition to the graphical representation of the passcode characters. In other examples one or more graphical objects may be included in the security image in place of or in addition to the graphical representation of the passcode characters to visually depict or represent the content or context of the passcode. For instance if the passcode is FLOWERS the one or more graphical objects included in the security image may depict a bouquet of flowers.

The security image may have one or more design effects applied to the graphical representation of the passcode characters and or the one or more graphical objects included in the security image. Any one or more design effects may be applied as may suit a particular implementation. For example the design effects may include without limitation character font font size font effects e.g. underline bold italics strikethrough outline character spacing line spacing character alignment case shadowing distortion skew rotation waving fill color line weight line style black white negative color negative angle of view warping grayscale hue color saturation transparency brightness position and or any other design properties.

Although the security image has been described as including a graphical representation of the passcode characters and or one or more graphical objects depicting the passcode any graphical objects designs layouts design effects or features may be included in the security image that are capable of allowing a human user viewing the security image to ascertain or decipher based on the security image the passcode associated with the security image. In certain examples in which the security image is part of a set of multiple security images associated with the passcode the security image may include one or more such elements that are capable of allowing a human user viewing the security image to ascertain or decipher at least part of the passcode.

In some examples a security image may include a mosaic of a plurality of subportions of a plurality of security images. For example a single security image graphically depicting a truck may have an upper left corner subportion depicting a milk truck an upper right corner subportion depicting a pickup truck a lower left corner subportion depicting a semi trailer truck and a lower right corner subportion depicting a flatbed truck. A human brain may be able to recognize the various subportions and internally piece them together to determine the passcode associated with the security image. On the other hand a mosaic type security image may be difficult for a bot to analyze in order to determine the passcode associated with the security image because a bot unlike humans cannot easily identify a correlation among subportions of different security images included in a mosaic type security image.

Data representative of the security image may be maintained at any suitable location including as security image data stored in storage repository . The security image data representative of the security image may be maintained in any suitable data format such as a raster based vector based or other suitable data format including without limitation GIF TIFF JPEG BMP and PNG data formats.

Challenge response test management facility may obtain a challenge response test in any suitable way. For example challenge response test management facility may obtain a passcode and then obtain based on the passcode one or more security images. Alternatively challenge response test management facility may obtain one or more security images and then obtain based on the one or more security images a passcode.

In certain implementations challenge response test management facility may obtain a passcode and then obtain based on the passcode one or more security images in any suitable manner as may serve a particular implementation. In certain examples for instance a passcode may be obtained from a repository of passcodes or potential passcodes such as from a repository of words e.g. a dictionary or a specialized group of words stored in repository . In certain other examples a passcode may be obtained from a source external of system such as from a third party provider. In certain other examples challenge response test management facility may obtain the passcode by generating the passcode such as from a plurality of characters and or words and or in accordance with a passcode generation heuristic.

Challenge response test management facility may obtain one or more security images based on the obtained passcode in any suitable manner. For example challenge response test management facility may generate one or more security images graphically representing the passcode characters as described above. The generated security images may be stored in storage repository as security image data .

Additionally or alternatively challenge response test management facility may obtain one or more pre generated images and associate the pre generated images with the passcode. For example one or more security images may be selected from a set of pre generated images having metadata described below in more detail such as descriptors or identifiers that match the obtained passcode. Pre generated images may be stored in storage repository or they may be obtained from a third party source such as a stock image provider. The one or more pre generated security images may then be stored in storage repository for use with the passcode.

In certain implementations challenge response test management facility may obtain one or more security images and then obtain based on the one or more security images a passcode in any suitable manner as may suit a particular implementation. In certain examples for instance challenge response test management facility may obtain one or more pre generated images as explained above and one or more security images may be selected from a set of pre generated images. The obtained one or more pre generated security images and or the selected one or more security images may be stored in storage repository as security image data .

A passcode may be obtained based on the obtained one or more security images in any suitable manner. For example the passcode may be obtained from security image metadata associated with the obtained one or more security image and stored in storage repository . For instance storage repository may include security image data representative of the one or more obtained security images and security image metadata associated with the security image data . Security image metadata may include information associated with or descriptive of the content and or context of the associated security image s . For example storage repository may include security image data representative of a security image depicting a truck. Security image metadata associated with the security image may include information describing the truck such as a color of the truck e.g. red the number of wheels shown e.g. five and objects shown on the side of the truck e.g. flowers . Challenge response test management facility may select an item of security image metadata from storage repository for use as the passcode e.g. the word red .

In certain examples the security image metadata may also include a security question based on each descriptive item included in the security image metadata . For example the security question associated with a red metadata value may be What is the color of the object shown Additionally or alternatively the security question may be included in the security image e.g. as a graphical depiction of the characters of the security question .

The security image may be associated with the passcode in any suitable manner. For example security image data and or security image metadata may include an identifier specifying or linking to the passcode data with which the security image is associated. Alternatively the passcode data may include an identifier specifying or linking to the security image data with which the passcode is associated. Alternatively a separate data object may include data representing the passcode and the security image or data indicating a link between the security image and the passcode such as links to the security image in the security image data and to the passcode in the passcode data .

The challenge response test may include a passcode associated with a single security image or a plurality of security images. For example a single passcode may be associated with a first security image and a second security image that is visually different from the first security image. For instance the first security image may depict a graphical representation of the passcode characters stylized with a first set of design effects and the second security image may depict a graphical representation of the passcode characters stylized with a second set of design effects. As an example a passcode of HOMERUN may be associated with a first security image that graphically depicts the passcode characters included in the passcode HOMERUN in an italicized Times New Roman font and positioned in the center of a security image display window. The passcode HOMERUN may also be associated with a second security image that graphically depicts the passcode characters included in the passcode HOMERUN in a bold cursive font and positioned at a bottom left corner of the security image display window.

In another example the first security image may include graphical objects representing the passcode and the second security image may include different graphical objects representing the passcode. For example the passcode FLOWERS may be associated with a first security image depicting a bouquet of red roses and a second security image depicting a garden of yellow tulips.

Challenge response test management facility may use the obtained challenge response test to manage access to the network based content associated with an access request. To this end challenge response test management facility may provide for display by an access device a visually dynamic representation of one or more security images associated with the passcode. Examples of providing for display by an access device the visually dynamic representation of one or more security images associated with the passcode will now be described.

In certain examples challenge response test management facility may provide a visually dynamic representation of one or more security images associated with a passcode by providing a plurality of subportions of a security image for display by an access device over time such that different views of the security image are displayed over time e.g. different views of the security image are displayed at discrete times within a period of time . For example challenge response test management facility may provide the visually dynamic representation of one or more security images associated with the passcode by providing a first subportion of a security image for display by an access device during a first time segment and a second subportion of the security image for display by the access device during a second time segment. A subportion of the security image may refer to a region of the security image that depicts less than the entire security image.

First subportion of the security image may be provided for display in display window from time tto time t. As shown first subportion of the security image graphically depicts only the characters ME of passcode . While first subportion is displayed non display regions do not display or depict any other portion of the security image associated with passcode .

Second subportion of the security image may be provided for display in display window from time tto time t. As shown second subportion of the security image graphically depicts only the characters HO of passcode . While second subportion is displayed non display regions do not display or depict any other portion of the security image associated with passcode .

Third subportion of the security image may be provided for display in display window from time tto time t. As shown third subportion of the security image graphically depicts only the character N of passcode . While third subportion is displayed non display region does not display or depict any other portion of the security image associated with passcode .

Fourth subportion of the security image may be provided for display in display window beginning at time t. As shown fourth subportion of the security image graphically depicts only the characters RU of passcode . While fourth subportion is displayed non display regions do not display or depict any other portion of the security image associated with passcode .

Although shows subportions of the security image as being rectangular and depicting one or more whole characters of passcode each subportion of the security image may be any other size and or shape. For example subportions may be any geometrical shape e.g. rectangle square circle oval triangle etc. puzzle piece shape or amorphous shape. Moreover different subportions that are displayed at different times can spatially overlap one another. Furthermore while shows only four subportions a visually dynamic representation of the security image may include any quantity of subportions . The shapes sizes and quantity of subportions of the security image may be determined randomly in accordance with a predefined randomization algorithm or based on a pre defined template for subdividing a security image into a plurality of subportions. Subportions may additionally or alternatively be configured to depict any part of the security image. For example subportions need not depict whole characters but may also depict partial characters. Additionally non display portions are not limited to a single solid black color or shape as shown in but may have any color shading shape and or pattern as may suit a particular implementation. Moreover while illustrates the security image as a single security image the security image may also be a mosaic type security image as described above.

Subportions of the security image may also be displayed for any duration of time and in any temporal order as may suit a particular implementation. For example the duration of a time segment may be substantially equal to or less than a duration of a single frame of a refresh based high frame rate display device associated with the access device at a minimum or several seconds or more as may suit a particular implementation. As shown in first subportion may be displayed for a first time segment ranging from time tto time t second subportion may be displayed for a second time segment ranging from time tto time t third subportion may be displayed for a third time segment ranging from time tto time t and fourth subportion may be displayed for a fourth time segment beginning at time t. Different time segments may also overlap so that multiple subportions of the security image may be displayed simultaneously. The duration of each time segment may be determined according to a display scheme as described below in more detail.

In certain examples sequential presentation of subportions at a sufficiently high frame rate may result in a human viewer perceiving a single composite image. If subportions depict in the aggregate substantially all of the security image the single composite image viewed by the human viewer may appear to be the security image. If the transmission rate is low or if the subportions depict in the aggregate substantially less than all of the security image the human viewer may not perceive a composite image equal to the security image but may nevertheless determine passcode due to the ability of the human brain to retain in memory and piece together the viewed subportions . For example if subportions depict only a partial view of the security image e.g. only subportions and but not subportion a human viewer may still be able to fill in the missing information e.g. the portion depicted by subportion and determine passcode .

On the other hand the sequential presentation of subportions of the security image may prevent or at least make difficult automatic determination of passcode by non human entities such as bots or automated scripts that employ screen capture and image recognition technologies. A screen capture taken over any period of time during which less than all of the security image is depicted will contain insufficient information for a bot to determine passcode . For example a screen capture taken from time tup to time twould capture only first subportion ME second subportion e.g. HO and corresponding non display portions which would be insufficient information for a non human entity to ascertain passcode .

In certain examples an obfuscation image may also be displayed between the display of any two of the subportions . The duration of display of the obfuscation image may be any length of time conducive to the obfuscation image being captured by a non human entity employing screen capture and image recognition technology but may also be short enough in duration so as to not affect a human viewer s ability to identify and determine the passcode from the visually dynamic representation of the subportions of the security image. The obfuscation image may have any design or pattern that may confuse a non human entity and further render the passcode undecipherable to the non human entity. For instance the obfuscation image may include any solid color image or patterned image e.g. swirls bars dots cross hatch etc. . For example although not shown in a solid black image may be displayed in window at a time immediately prior to time t. In certain examples a plurality of obfuscation images may be provided for display by the access device. To further prevent a non human entity automatically ascertaining the passcode the obfuscation images may be provided such that the subportions of the security image displayed temporally between the obfuscation images visually depict in the aggregate less than all of the security image.

A visually dynamic representation of a plurality of subportions of a security image may be provided in accordance with a display scheme which may define how at least one attribute of the subportions of the security image changes during a visually dynamic representation of the plurality of security images. The attributes that may change include one or more of a shape a size a position an order of display and a display duration of subportions of the security image as well as the quantity of subportions displayed. In certain examples the display scheme may be randomized. Alternatively the display scheme may be determined according to a predefined algorithm pattern or template.

In certain examples the visually dynamic representation of the plurality of subportions of the security image may be provided in display cycles. A display cycle may include a sequential display of a set of subportions. In certain examples a display cycle may depict in the aggregate substantially all of the security image. For example as shown in a display cycle may include display of subportions and which together depict all of the security image associated with passcode . In other examples a display cycle may depict in the aggregate less than all of the security image. For example a display cycle may include display of subportions and but not . Additionally or alternatively a display cycle may be a set of subportions that are displayed during a predetermined amount of time e.g. ten seconds .

The display cycle may repeat indefinitely or for any suitable number of times. In certain examples the display cycle may be set to repeat automatically or it may be set to repeat in response to receiving input from the access device to repeat the display cycle e.g. user input to replay the display cycle . A repeating display cycle may allow a human viewer to view the visually dynamic representation of the security image for as long as may be necessary for the human viewer to ascertain the passcode . Alternatively the visually dynamic representation may terminate after a first display cycle or after another predetermined number of cycles.

Each display cycle may have any display scheme as may suit a particular implementation. Any one or more display cycles may have the same display scheme or they may have different display schemes. For example a display scheme of a second display cycle may be different from a display scheme of a first display cycle.

Challenge response test management facility may provide the visually dynamic representation of subportions of the security image for display by the access device associated with the access request in any suitable manner. For example challenge response test management facility may transmit data representative of the plurality of subportions subportion image data to the access device associated with the access request. In certain examples challenge response test management facility may stream subportion image data to the access device in accordance with a display scheme. For example subportion image data representative of subportion may be transmitted to the access device at time to or immediately prior thereto accounting for transmission delays subportion image data representative of subportion may be transmitted to the access device at time t subportion image data representative of subportion may be transmitted to the access device at time t and subportion image data representative of subportion may be transmitted to the access device at time t.

Alternatively subportion image data may be transmitted to the access device with instructions for displaying the subportion image data in accordance with a display scheme. The access device may optionally include a client software application configured to receive the subportion image data and provide the visually dynamic representation of the subportions represented by the transmitted subportion image data in accordance with the display scheme.

In certain other examples of providing a visually dynamic representation of one or more security images associated with a passcode challenge response test management facility may provide a visually dynamic representation of a plurality of security images associated with the passcode. This may include providing a plurality of security images for display over time e.g. different security images are displayed at discrete times within a period of time . For example a first security image may be provided for display by an access device during a first time segment and a second security image may be provided for display by the access device during a second time segment.

In the example of first security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown first security image depicts the characters of passcode with a first set of design effects. For example the characters of passcode depicted in first security image are shown in Arial font with normal styling.

Second security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown second security image depicts the characters of passcode with a second set of design effects. For example the characters of passcode depicted in second security image are shown in italicized Arial font.

Third security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown third security image depicts the characters of passcode with a third set of design effects. For example the characters of passcode depicted in third security image are shown in normal Arial font with expanded character spacing.

Fourth security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown fourth security image depicts the characters of passcode with a fourth set of design effects. For example the characters of passcode depicted in fourth security image are shown in Impact font and rotated counter clockwise by about 25 degrees.

The design effects of the security images may be determined in any suitable manner. For example the design effects may be selected randomly in accordance with a design effect selection heuristic or based on a pre defined display scheme.

Security images may be displayed for any duration of time and in any temporal order as may suit a particular implementation. For example as shown in first security image may be displayed for a first time segment ranging from time tto time t second security image may be displayed for a second time segment ranging from time tto time t third security image may be displayed for a third time segment ranging from time tto time t and fourth security image may be displayed for a fourth time segment beginning at time t. The duration of each time segment may be determined in any suitable manner as described herein. For example the duration of each time segment may be determined according to a predefined randomization algorithm display scheme or template. In certain examples the duration of a time segment may be substantially equal to or less than a duration of a single frame of a refresh based high frame rate display device associated with the access device at a minimum or several seconds or more as may suit a particular implementation.

In certain examples sequential presentation of first security image second security image third security image and fourth security image at a sufficiently high frame rate may result in a human viewer perceiving a dynamic moving image. For example the characters of passcode may appear to be moving within display window . Sequential presentation of first security image second security image third security image and fourth security image at a low frame rate may result in a human viewer perceiving a periodically changing set of static images. In either case a human viewer may be able to ascertain passcode due to the ability of the human brain to visually perceive and recognize the characters included in the plurality of security images . On the other hand the sequential presentation of security images may prevent or at least make difficult automatic determination of passcode by non human entities such as bots and automated scripts that utilize multiple screen captures and image recognition technologies. For example a plurality of screen captures taken from time tto time t when compiled into a single composite image for image recognition processing would create an unrecognizable blur resulting from the aggregation of security images and and would be insufficient for a non human entity to ascertain passcode .

A visually dynamic representation of a plurality of security images may be provided in accordance with a display scheme which may define how the design effects of the plurality of security images and or the display duration of the plurality of security images changes during the visually dynamic representation of the plurality of security images. In certain examples the display scheme may be randomized. Alternatively the display scheme may be determined according to a predefined algorithm or template.

Challenge response test management facility may provide the visually dynamic representation of the plurality of security images in any suitable manner. For example challenge response test management facility may transmit security image data representative of the plurality of security images to the access device associated with the access request. In certain examples challenge response test management facility may stream image data to the access device in accordance with a display scheme. For example security image data representative of security image may be transmitted to the access device at time to or immediately prior thereto accounting for transmission delays security image data representative of security image may be transmitted to the access device at time t security image data representative of security image may be transmitted to the access device at time t and security image data representative of security image may be transmitted to the access device at time t.

Alternatively security image data representative of the plurality of security images may be transmitted to the access device with instructions for displaying the plurality of security images in accordance with a display scheme. The access device may optionally include a client software application configured to receive the security image data and provide the visually dynamic representation of the plurality of security images in accordance with the display scheme.

In certain other examples of providing a visually dynamic representation of one or more security images associated with a passcode a combination of any of the above described examples may be used. For example challenge response test management facility may provide for display by an access device associated with the access request a visually dynamic representation of a plurality of subportions of a plurality of security images.

First subportion of the first security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown first subportion of the first security image depicts only the characters ME of passcode having a first set of design effects. While first subportion is displayed non display regions do not display or depict any other portion of the security image associated with passcode .

Second subportion of the security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown second subportion of the security image depicts only the characters HO of passcode having a second set of design effects. While second subportion is displayed non display regions do not display or depict any other portion of the security image associated with passcode .

Third subportion of the security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown third subportion of the security image depicts only the characters UN of passcode having a third set of design effects. While third subportion is displayed non display region does not display or depict any other portion of the security image associated with passcode .

Fourth subportion of the security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown fourth subportion of the security image depicts only a portion of the characters RUN of passcode having a fourth set of design effects. While fourth subportion is displayed non display regions do not display or depict any other portion of the security image associated with passcode .

A visually dynamic representation of subportions of the plurality of security images may be provided in any manner described herein including in accordance with any display cycles and or display schemes as described herein.

In certain other examples of providing a visually dynamic representation of one or more security images associated with a passcode challenge response test management facility may provide a visually dynamic representation of a plurality of subportions of a security image having one or more graphical objects representative of the passcode. The visually dynamic representation of the plurality of subportions of the security image may be provided in any suitable manner including any of those described herein. In addition a security question may be provided for display by the access device in conjunction with the visually dynamic representation of the plurality of subportions of the security image.

To illustrate first subportion of the security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown first subportion of the security image depicts only a first subportion of the truck graphically represented in the security image. While first subportion is displayed non display regions do not display or depict any other portion of the security image associated with passcode .

Second subportion of the security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown second subportion of the security image depicts only a second subportion of the truck graphically represented in the security image. While second subportion is displayed non display regions do not display or depict any other portion of the security image associated with passcode .

Third subportion of the security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown third subportion of the security image depicts only a third subportion of the truck graphically represented in the security image. While third subportion is displayed non display region does not display or depict any other portion of the security image associated with passcode .

Fourth subportion of the security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown fourth subportion of the security image depicts only a fourth subportion of the truck graphically represented in the security image. While fourth subportion is displayed non display regions do not display or depict any other portion of the security image associated with passcode .

Challenge response test management facility may provide a visually dynamic representation of subportions of the security image in any suitable manner including in accordance with any of the display cycles display schemes and or other manners described herein. Moreover although shows that the security image is a single security image graphically depicting a truck the security image may also be a mosaic type security image composed of a plurality of subportions of a plurality of security images that graphically depict different types or views of trucks as described herein.

In certain other examples challenge response test management facility may provide a visually dynamic representation of one or more security images associated with a passcode by providing a visually dynamic representation of a plurality of security images having one or more graphical objects representative of the passcode. For example a first security image may be provided for display by an access device during a first time segment and a second security image may be provided for display by the access device during a second time segment. The first security image may differ from the second security image by design effects and or by the underlying image.

In the example of first security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown first security image depicts a first graphical object representing a truck. Second security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown second security image depicts a second graphical object representing a truck. Third security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown third security image depicts the first graphical object representing the truck with size decrease and rotation design effects. Fourth security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown fourth security image depicts the second graphical object representing the truck with a size decrease design effect.

In certain other examples of providing a visually dynamic representation of one or more security images having one or more graphical objects representing the passcode a combination of any of the above described embodiments may be used. For example challenge response test management facility may provide for display by an access device associated with an access request a visually dynamic representation of a plurality of subportions of a plurality of security images having one or more graphical objects representing the passcode.

To illustrate first subportion of the first security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown first subportion of the first security image depicts only a subportion of the truck graphically represented in the first security image. While first subportion is displayed non display regions do not display or depict any other portion of the first security image associated with passcode .

Second subportion of the second security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown second subportion of the second security image depicts only a subportion of the truck graphically represented in the second security image. While second subportion is displayed non display regions do not display or depict any other portion of the second security image associated with passcode .

Third subportion of the third security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown third subportion of the third security image depicts only a subportion of the truck graphically represented in the third security image. While third subportion is displayed non display region does not display or depict any other portion of the third security image associated with passcode .

Fourth subportion of the fourth security image may be provided for display in display window at time t. As shown fourth subportion of the fourth security image depicts only a subportion of the truck graphically represented in the fourth security image. While fourth subportion is displayed non display regions do not display or depict any other portion of the fourth security image associated with passcode .

The visually dynamic representation of subportions of the security image may be provided in any suitable manner including in accordance with any of the display cycles display schemes and or manners described herein.

By providing for display by an access device a visually dynamic representation of one or more security images associated with a passcode in any of the manners described herein challenge response test management facility may solicit and receive challenge response input associated with the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images e.g. a passcode guess . Challenge response test management facility may manage access to network based content by performing one or more access operations based on the challenge response input.

For example challenge response test management facility may receive from the access device associated with the access request challenge response input associated with the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images provided by the challenge response test management facility for display by the access device. Challenge response input associated with the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images may include one or more passcode guesses received by way of or provided by the access device during any part of or after termination of the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images. The challenge response input may be inputted by a human user in any suitable manner as may suit a particular implementation or it may be generated by a non human entity such as a bot or other software application running on the access device. Data representative of the challenge response input may then be transmitted from the access device to challenge response test management facility for use by challenge response test management facility in determining one or more access operations to be performed.

Challenge response test management facility may compare the challenge response input with passcode data representative of the security passcode associated with the one or more security images. If the received challenge response input matches the passcode data representative of the security passcode challenge response test management facility may allow and or provide access to the network based content by way of the access device associated with the access request.

On the other hand if the received challenge response input associated with the one or more security images does not match the passcode data representative of the security passcode challenge response test management facility may deny access to the network based content for the access device. Additionally or alternatively challenge response test management facility may provide another visually dynamic representation of one or more other security images associated with another passcode. Additionally or alternatively challenge response test management facility may lock out or temporarily block the user or software application running on the access device from retrying i.e. providing another challenge response input associated with the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images for a predetermined amount of time e.g. ten seconds . Additionally or alternatively challenge response test management facility may clear a challenge response input field and allow the human user or non human entity or software application running on the access device to provide another challenge response input associated with the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images. Challenge response test management facility may limit a number of retries that a user or non human entity is permitted. The above described access operations may be performed by challenge response test management facility at any suitable time including after all of the challenge response input is received or after a pre defined number of characters are received and determined to not match the corresponding first characters of the passcode. For example if the passcode is HOMERUN any of the denial access operations may be performed if all or any of the first three characters included in the challenge response input do not match the characters HOM. 

In any of the examples described herein a visually dynamic representation of one or more security images may be controlled at least in part by one or more triggers. A trigger may be any input received by way of the access device associated with the access request.

To illustrate in certain examples a visually dynamic representation of one or more security images may be provided in response to a user input e.g. a user selection of a play or replay button. In response to the user input a first display cycle or any subsequent display cycle may be provided. Additionally or alternatively a visually dynamic representation may be provided only when a cursor or pointer is placed at e.g. moused over a specified location within a graphical user interface displayed by the access device.

Additionally or alternatively a visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images may be provided in stages as challenge response input associated with the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images is received. For example subportions of a security image that are provided for display by the access device may depict only a portion of the security image until the associated fragment of the passcode is correctly input. For example as shown in a visually dynamic representation of subportions and may be provided until the challenge response input matches HOME. Then a visually dynamic representation of subportions and may be provided until the challenge response input matches HOMERUN. In this way additional fragments of the security image are progressively provided when challenge response input associated with the plurality of subportions of the security image matches the corresponding fragments of the passcode.

Additionally or alternatively the plurality of subportions that are provided for display by the access device may depict a fragment of the security image at differing locations within display window . For example at a time to a fragment of the security image that includes the characters HOME may be depicted by subportions of the security image that are positioned in the center of display window and at a time tthe fragment of the security image that includes the characters HOME may be depicted by subportions of the security image that are positioned in the upper right corner of display window . The position of the subportions that depict the fragment of the security image may change in response to receiving a portion of the challenge response input associated with the plurality of subportions of the security image.

Server subsystem and access device may communicate with one another using any suitable communication technologies devices media and protocols supportive of data communications including but not limited to socket connections Ethernet data bus technologies data transmission media communications devices Transmission Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP File Transfer Protocol FTP Telnet Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS Session Initiation Protocol SIP Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP Extensible Mark up Language XML and variations thereof Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Real Time Transport Protocol RTP User Datagram Protocol UDP Global System for Mobile Communications GSM technologies Code Division Multiple Access CDMA technologies Evolution Data Optimized Protocol EVDO Time Division Multiple Access TDMA technologies Long Term Evolution LTE technologies Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS radio frequency RF signaling technologies wireless communication technologies e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi etc. in band and out of band signaling technologies and other suitable communications technologies.

Challenge response test management facility may facilitate communication between server subsystem and access device . In particular challenge response test management facility may transmit and or receive communication signals security image data security image metadata passcode data and or any other data to from server subsystem . The communication signals may be in any form suitable for communicating with one or more computing devices. Challenge response test management facility may interface with any suitable communication media protocols and formats including any of those mentioned above. Challenge response test management facility may include and or employ any technologies suitable for transmitting and or receiving communication signals associated with any type and or form of inter device communications.

Server subsystem and access device may communicate using any suitable network. For example as shown in server subsystem and access device may communicate with each other by way of network . Network may include one or more networks or types of networks capable of carrying communications and or data signals between or among server subsystem and access device . For example network may include but is not limited to a cable network an optical fiber network a hybrid fiber coax network a wireless network e.g. a Wi Fi and or mobile telephone network a satellite network a wireless broadcast network e.g. a satellite media broadcasting network or terrestrial broadcasting network a subscriber television network a provider specific network the Internet an intranet a local area network a wide area network any other suitable network and or any combination or sub combination of these networks. Communications between server subsystem and access device may be transported using any one of the above listed networks or any combination or sub combination of the above listed networks.

While shows server subsystem and access device communicatively coupled via network it will be recognized that server subsystem and access device may be configured to communicate one with another in any other suitable manner e.g. via a direct connection .

Server subsystem and access device may each include or be implemented by one or more computing devices such as one or more servers a mobile or wireless device e.g. a mobile phone a smartphone a handheld device a tablet computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant device etc. a personal computer a set top box device a digital video recorder DVR device a gaming device a television device a network based computing device e.g. one or more network based servers and or any other device configured to perform one or more of the processes and or operations described herein.

Server subsystem may provide network based content for access by access device and control access by access device to the network based content. For example server subsystem may maintain in a storage repository data representative of network based content e.g. a webpage or software application . Server subsystem may receive from access device via network a request for access to the network based content and thereby detect the request for access. In response to detecting the request for access server subsystem may provide a challenge response test for use in determining whether to grant or deny access to the network based content. For example server subsystem may provide for display by access device or a display device associated with access device a visually dynamic representation of one or more security images associated with a passcode such as described herein.

Server subsystem may receive from access device challenge response input associated with the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images. Server subsystem may then compare the challenge response input with the passcode and perform based on the comparison one or more access operations. For example if the challenge response input matches the passcode server subsystem may transmit the data representative of the network based content to access device . On the other hand if the challenge response input does not match the passcode server subsystem may deny access to the network based content and not transmit the data representative of the network based content. Additionally or alternatively server subsystem may terminate the communication session with access device .

Access device may facilitate access to network based content provided by server subsystem . To this end access device may receive provide a request for network based content. For example a human user interacting with access device may input a URL address or select a displayed hyperlink in a browser application running on access device . In response to the input access device may transmit a request for access to server subsystem via network to request access to the network based content provided by server subsystem . Access device may then receive from server subsystem security image data and use the security image data to display the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images associated with a passcode. During or after the visually dynamic representation access device may receive the challenge response input associated with the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images and transmit data representative of the challenge response input to server subsystem for use by server subsystem in determining an access operation to perform.

If a human user is interacting with access device input requesting network based content and the challenge response input associated with the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images may be provided by the human user by way of access device . In this way a human user viewing the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images displayed by access device may ascertain the passcode and enter the correct passcode as the challenge response input. On the other hand if a non human entity such as a bot or other automated script running on access device requested access to the network based content the non human entity may not be able to interpret the visually dynamic representation displayed by access device . As a result the non human entity is more likely to provide challenge response input that does not match the passcode. In this way server subsystem may control e.g. allow or deny access to network based content based on the type of user or entity interacting with access device .

In certain examples access management server may transmit a challenge response test to content server for use by content server . For example when content server receives an access request from access device content server may request a challenge response test from access management server by transmitting the access request or a notification of the access request to access management server . By receiving the access request or the notification of the access request access management server may detect the access request by access device . Access management server may transmit all or a part of the challenge response test to content server . For example access management server may transmit one or more security images to content server . Additionally access management server may transmit a passcode associated with the one or more security images to content server . Content server may then provide a visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images for display by access device .

In other examples access management server may provide the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images directly to access device by way of network for display by access device upon detecting the access request by access device . Challenge response input may then be transmitted by way of network back to access management server to compare with the passcode associated with the one or more security images. Access management server may transmit the results of the comparison to content server e.g. passcode matched or passcode not matched and content server may process the results to identify one or more access operations to perform.

Alternatively access management server may transmit one or more access operation instructions to content server the access operation instructions being based on the results of the comparison. For example access management server may instruct content server to allow access device to access to the network based content.

In certain examples content server and access management server may be associated with e.g. operated by and or under the control of a single party such as a network based content provider that provides network based content to end users. In other examples content server and access management server may be associated with e.g. operated by and or under the control of different parties. For example content server may be associated with a network based content provider that provides network based content to end users and access management server may be associated with a third party human verification service provider e.g. a challenge response test provider .

In step a human interaction verification system detects a request by an access device to access network based content. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step the human interaction verification system provides for display by the access device a visually dynamic representation of one or more security images associated with a passcode. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step the human interaction verification system receives by way of the access device challenge response input associated with the visually dynamic representation of the one or more security images. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step the human interaction verification system performs one or more access operations based at least in part on a comparison of the challenge response input to the passcode. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step a human interaction verification system detects a request by an access device to access network based content. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step the human interaction verification system provides for display by the access device during a first time segment a first subportion of a security image associated with a passcode. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step the human interaction verification system provides for display by the access device during a second time segment a second subportion of the security image associated with the passcode. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step the human interaction verification system receives by way of the access device challenge response input associated with the security image. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step the human interaction verification system performs one or more access operations based at least in part on a comparison of the challenge response input associated with the security image to the passcode. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step a human interaction verification system detects a request by an access device to access network based content. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step the human interaction verification system provides for display by the access device during a first time segment a first security image associated with a passcode. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step the human interaction verification system provides for display by the access device during a second time segment a second security image associated with the passcode. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step the human interaction verification system receives by way of the access device challenge response input associated with the first security image and or the second security image. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In step the human interaction verification system performs one or more access operations based at least in part on a comparison of the challenge response input associated with the first security image and or the second security image to the passcode. Step may be performed in any of the ways described herein.

In certain embodiments one or more of the components and or processes described herein may be implemented and or performed by one or more appropriately configured computing devices. To this end one or more of the systems and or components described above may include or be implemented as one or more computing systems and or components by any computer hardware computer implemented instructions e.g. software embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium or combinations of computer implemented instructions and hardware configured to execute one or more of the processes described herein. In particular system components may be implemented on one physical computing device or may be implemented on more than one physical computing device. Accordingly system components may include any number of physical computing devices and may employ any of a number of computer operating systems.

In certain embodiments one or more of the processes described herein may be implemented at least in part as instructions embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium and executable by one or more computing devices. In general a processor e.g. a microprocessor receives instructions from a non transitory computer readable medium e.g. a memory etc. and executes those instructions thereby performing one or more processes including one or more of the processes described herein. Such instructions may be stored and or transmitted using any of a variety of known computer readable media.

A computer readable medium also referred to as a processor readable medium includes any non transitory medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions that may be read by a computer e.g. by a processor of a computer . Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media may include for example dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes a main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other tangible medium from which a computer can read.

Communication interface may communicate with one or more computing devices. Examples of communication interface include without limitation a wired network interface such as a network interface card a wireless network interface such as a wireless network interface card a modem an audio video connection and any other suitable interface.

Processor generally represents any type or form of processing unit capable of processing data or interpreting executing and or directing execution of one or more of the instructions processes and or operations described herein. Processor may direct execution of operations in accordance with one or more applications or other computer executable instructions such as may be stored in storage device or another computer readable medium.

Storage device may include one or more data storage media devices or configurations and may employ any type form and combination of data storage media and or device. For example storage device may include but is not limited to a hard drive network drive flash drive magnetic disc optical disc random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM other non volatile and or volatile data storage units or a combination or sub combination thereof. Electronic data including data described herein may be temporarily and or permanently stored in storage device . For example data representative of one or more executable applications configured to direct processor to perform any of the operations described herein may be stored within storage device . In some examples data may be arranged in one or more databases residing within storage device .

I O module may receive user input and provide user output and may include any hardware firmware software or combination thereof supportive of input and output capabilities. For example I O module may include hardware and or software for capturing user input including but not limited to a keyboard or keypad a touch screen component e.g. touch screen display a receiver e.g. an RF or infrared receiver and or one or more input buttons.

I O module may include one or more devices for presenting output to a user including but not limited to a graphics engine a display e.g. a display screen one or more output drivers e.g. display drivers one or more audio speakers and one or more audio drivers. In certain examples I O module is configured to provide graphical data to a display for presentation to a user. The graphical data may be representative of one or more graphical user interfaces and or any other graphical content as may serve a particular implementation.

In some examples any of the systems and or facilities described herein may be implemented by or within one or more components of computing device . For example one or more applications residing within storage device may direct processor to perform one or more processes or functions associated with challenge response test management facility . Likewise storage facility may be implemented by or within storage device .

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store and or employ personal information provided by individuals or other entities it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

In the preceding description various exemplary embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. For example certain features of one embodiment described herein may be combined with or substituted for features of another embodiment described herein. The description and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

