---

title: Efficient assembly of multiple pane windows
abstract: This invention describes a process flow and method to assemble triple IG units without contaminating the center glass lite. A non-contact vacuum pad is used to lift a glass lite off from a horizontal or vertical support that conveys it from a glass washer to an assembly station. Each of multiple pads has a capacity to lift approximately seven to ten pounds. Use of multiple pads per glass sheet or lite allows lites having dimensions up to 70 by 100 inches (assuming glass thickness of one quarter inch) to be assembled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09416583&OS=09416583&RS=09416583
owner: GED Integrated Solutions, Inc.
number: 09416583
owner_city: Twinsburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140410
---
The following application is a divisional application claiming priority to copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 765 064 filed on Apr. 22 2010 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 177 368 filed May 12 2009. This application incorporates the above identified applications herein by reference in their entirety and claims priority therefrom for all purposes.

This invention was made with Government Support under DE NT0000167 awarded by DOE. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present disclosure relates to efficient assembly of triple pane windows that avoids contamination of the center pane during assembly.

One construction of insulating glass units IGU s involves forming a spacer frame by roll forming a flat metal strip into an elongated hollow rectangular tube or U shaped channel. A desiccant material is placed within the rectangular tube or channel and some provisions are made for the desiccant to conic into fluid communication with or otherwise affect the Interior space of the insulated glass unit. The elongated tube or channel is notched to allow the channel to be formed into a rectangular frame. A sealant is applied to the outer sides of the spacer frame in order to bond two glass panes or lites to opposite side of the spacer frame. Existing heated sealants include hot melts and dual seal equivalents DSE . This system is not limited to these spacer frame types other spacer frame technologies that are generally known in the industry can also be used with this system. The pair of glass panes are positioned on the spacer frame to form a pre pressed insulating glass unit. Generally the pre pressed insulating glass unit is passed through an IGU oven to melt or activate the sealant. The pre pressed insulating glass unit is then passed through a press that applies pressure to the glass and sealant and compresses the IGU to a selected pressed unit thickness. The completed IGU is used to fabricate a window or door.

It is known to construct triple pane IGUs having three panes or lites. Two outer panes contact spacer frames which separate the outer panes from a center or inner pane. When assembling an IG unit it is important that the glass surfaces that are on the inside airspace remain uncontaminated for two reasons 1 preventing visual defects that cannot be cleaned and 2 preventing contamination of the perimeter of the glass which needs to remain clean or else the adhesive bond between the spacer seal and glass can be compromised ultimately leading to a seal failure.

GED assignee of the present invention currently manufactures an assembly system which conveys two lites of glass parallel to each other horizontally through a glass washer. One lite gets a spacer applied and the other passes through untouched. The two pieces of glass are conveyed and aligned onto as pair of vertical pivoting tables that bring the two pieces of glass together. The advantage to this system is that the glass surfaces that are on the inside of the IG are never touched by the conveyance system after the glass has left a glass washer thus assuring the inside glass remains clean and contaminant free. This arrangement works very well for conventional dual glazed IG but is not conducive for fabricating triple IG s. A current difficulty with assembling triple IG units is keeping all inside glass surfaces Surfaces on contaminant free. With the current arrangement it is typical that the tuner glass surfaces will make substantial contact with the conveyance system which presents a high risk of contamination of these surfaces.

This process flow is well established. Note that each conveyor set i.e. two adjacent conveyors are split into separate drive zones. This facilitates the ability to simultaneously process smaller IG s. If a sensor detects an IG over a certain length in this case over 49 only one IG is processed at a time.

The disclosure describes a process flow and method and a system for assembling triple IG units IGU s without contaminating the center glass lite. A non contact vacuum pad is used to lift a glass lite off from a horizontal support that conveys it from a glass washer to an assembly station. Each of multiple pads has a capacity to lift approximately seven to ten pounds. Use of multiple pads per glass sheet or lite allows lites having dimensions up to 70 by 100 inches assuming glass thickness of one quarter inch to be assembled.

An exemplary process of assembling triple pane insulating glass units uses two spacer frames that have sealant applied to opposite sides. Glass lites or panes of a specified size are washed and moved to an assembly station. A first glass lite is attached to a first spacer frame and a second glass lite is caused to hover over a surface. The first glass lite and attached spacer frame is moved into registration beneath the hovering glass lite. The second glass lite is then brought into contact with sealant on the spacer frame to which the first glass lite is attached. The combination of the first and second glass lites and the spacer frame are moved to a downstream workstation.

At the downstream workstation a second spacer frame and third glass lite that is attached to the second spacer frame are brought into registration with the combined first and second glass lites. A middle glass lite the hovering glass lite at the upstream station is pressed against an exposed surface of one of said first and second lites into engagement with sealant on the second spacer frame to configure the triple pane insulating glass unit. This unit is then thermally treated so that sealant securely holds the panes to the frames of the triple pane insulating glass unit together.

Low E coatings on any inside surface Surfaces on and muntins in airspace or on must be safeguarded from contamination. A plurality of finished product combinations are accommodated in the product flow and the system needs to be able to handle these combinations. Muntins can be inserted into airspace or airspace .

These and other objects advantages and features of the disclosed system will be better understood by reference to the accompanying drawings and their description.

The exemplary system depicts a primarily horizontal transport and assembly of triple IGU. It is conceivable that similar technologies employed by this patent can be adapted to a primarily vertical arrangement.

The figures illustrate an assembly station for assembling triple pane insulating glass units IGUs . An overhead conveyor not shown delivers MU spacer frames. U.S. Pat. No. 5 313 761 incorporated herein by reference for all purposes has a for more complete description of an IGU. Sealant is applied to opposite sides of the frames for constructing triple pane insulating glass units. At the assembly station glass lites of a specified size that have been washed are moved to the assembly station . illustrates one lite that has been manually brought into registration with and attached to a first spacer frame for movement on a generally fiat surface in the direction of the arrow . The combination of the one lite a first spacer frame and a muntin grid that is attached to the spacer frame move along a travel path indicated by the arrow away from the location they are assembled by placing the frame onto the top of the glass lite. The frame extends around an outer perimeter of the lite and when a muntin grid is included the grid fastens to the frame at certain locations defined by cutouts in the spacer frame.

A second glass lite moves in the direction of an arrow along a flat surface out of the washer to a registration station wherein the lite is caused to hover over a generally flat surface. The first lite and its associated spacer frame and as depicted in muntin grid is then moved into registration beneath the hovering glass lite . The second lite is then lowered into contact with sealant on the spacer frame to which the first glass lite is attached.

The first and second lites as well as a spacer frame sandwiched between the first and second lites forms a combination similar to the two pane IGU shown in . The combination is moved away from the registration station in the direction of the arrow to a downstream workstation. At the downstream workstation bringing a second spacer frame note no muntin grid and third glass lite attached to the second spacer frame into registration with the combination of the first and second glass lites by pressing an exposed surface of the second lite which was previously caused to hover at the registration station into engagement with sealant on said second spacer frame to configure a triple pane insulating glass unit. Registration of the glass lites means that for the IGU edges of the three lites align along all four sides within acceptable tolerances. After the triple pane IGU is configured the IGU is routed through an oven wherein sealant holding the panes to the frames of the triple pane insulating glass unit is cured.

A Process flow for triple IG units is depicted in and summarized with the following sequence of steps 

Note that Conveyors are an air flotation system which reduces the risk of the conveyor system marking lite during transportation. With this process flow configuration the order of the glass feed can be altered to suit placement of the low e glass or muntins in the desired arrangement. Also with the assembly flow depicted in it is possible to run conventional dual IG units normally such as depicted in .

A vacuum system is located above conveyors and has lifting pads that are unique in design. They generate a lifting force for lite without making physical contact with the glass surface. This is important for the system s ability to not mark the glass during handling and assembly. One such non contact lifting pad is made by SMC called a Cyclone Pad 100 mm diameter pad has the capacity to vertically lift 7 10 lbs per lifting pad. To lift a 70 100 thick piece of glass the vacuum system needs an array of pads spaced 18 apart. For this maximum glass size it is estimated that 20 Cyclone Pads would be required. Twenty four pads in a six by four array are shown in . Similar products that may employ different technologies are available from other manufacturers such as New Way and Bosch but these products achieve the same end result non contact lifting of the glass. Since the vacuum lifting system does not touch the glass the glass has the ability to skate or move laterally. Therefore the glass needs to be registered and clamped on the edges to prevent lateral movement.

As described above it is important that during manufacture of an IGU that does not marks residual dirt or smudges are not left on the glass caused by operators or the conveyance system and it is especially difficult to accomplish this for triple IGU. This section describes more detail of the sequence summarized above for assembling the center lite of a triple IG without making physical contact with the inner or outer flat surfaces of the lite.

The glass lite is corner registered by controlled movement of two push bars forming a part of the vacuum frame assembly . These push bars register the lite against the pop up end stops that engage two sides of the glass lite . One push bar extends along one side of the vacuum frame assembly in the X direction and a second push bar extends a shorter distance along a generally perpendicular direction to the first. To accommodate small glass sizes the push bars must clear pass beneath the vacuum pads as the bars move inward and outward.

In the exemplary embodiment the vacuum pads are oriented in an array as shown and are mounted to cross members that extend generally parallel to a direction of glass movement in the X direction These cross members are coupled to a linear bearing supported by a frame for movement back and forth in the Y direction. In the exemplary embodiment each cross member supports six pads and five of the six pads can be moved relative to the cross members along guides attached to a respective one of the cross members . As the push bar moves inward to register the lite in a corner of the vacuum assembly it contacts outer circumferences of one or more pads supported by a first cross member and moves the nearest set of vacuum pads and accompanying cross member. When the vacuum pads coupled to a given cross member reach an end of travel limit near an adjacent row or set of vacuum pads the push bar stops and the pads are lifted up and over the push bar so the push bar can continue to move toward the stops and register the glass lite . During this process one or more additional rows of vacuum pads may be repositioned by the push bar

After the pads raise up out of the way so the push bar can pass beneath the vacuum pads return to their original position. On a return trip by the push bar the vacuum pads are again contacted on the opposite side by the push bar and moved to their original positions shown in the Figures to await receipt of a next subsequent glass lite at the registration station. Movement of the push bars is accomplished with a suitable drive such as a servo motor coupled through a suitable transmission not shown . Up and down movement of the pads and pop up stops is accomplished by suitable pneumatic actuators. Both the servo motors and pneumatic actuators along with a vacuum pump operate under control of a controller which in the exemplary embodiment is a programmable controller .

Currently the butterfly tables are raised and lowered by hydraulic cylinders. See also U.S. Pat. No. 6 553 653 During the pivoting up and down mechanical limit switches are used to shift the hydraulic cylinders between high and low speeds. This is one so that during the transition from horizontal to vertical the momentum of the table does not make the glass tip over center when it is near vertical. There is minimal control ability between large tall glass and small glass. All GED assembly tables have functioned in this manner for more than 20 years.

The invention senses the glass size and adapts the butterfly sequence according to a predetermined motion profile. Larger lites need to run slower than smaller lites especially as the butterfly table approaches vertical. Having adaptive motion technology in the butterfly table can increase throughputs since it is not necessary to run lites at speeds slower than possible.

To do this the butterfly table has a servo controlled system. A servo motor is used in place of the hydraulic system. An electro pneumatic proportional air regulator servo system can also be used or a ball screw system could be used. There are many ways to accomplish the end goal of coupling the machine s motion profile with a particular glass size. Recipes or ranges of glass sizes can be assigned to one motion profile and another range of glass sizes assigned to another profile etc. These recipes would be stored in a computer or controller and they can be recalled either manually or assigned to a specific input by a sensor array.

The invention has been described with a degree of particularity but it is the intent that it include all modifications and alterations front the disclosed design falling within the spirit or scope of the appended claims.

