---

title: Monitoring content consumption by restricted account
abstract: A content server stores digital content including video, audio, image, animation, or text content. The content server receives account permissions governing video access for a restricted account that an authorizing account supervises. The content server also receives a designation by the authorizing account of a delegate account authorized to control video access for the restricted account. The content server receives a request from the restricted account to view a video and determines whether the restricted account may view the video according to the account permission. In response to determining that the authorized account is not authorized to view the requested video, the content server transmits an authorization request to the delegate user, who provides authorization for the restricted account to view the video. In response to authorization from the delegate account, the content server transmits the video to the restricted user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491176&OS=09491176&RS=09491176
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09491176
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140828
---
The disclosure generally relates to the field of distributing digital content and in particular to controlling access to digital content by users.

Content servers allow users to upload digital content also referred to as media such as videos audio images and or animations. Other users may view the digital content using client devices to browse digital content hosted on content servers. Content servers store a wide variety of content including some content that may be inappropriate for some users.

Content servers may provide users an option to browse in a safe mode. When users enable safe mode content servers remove potentially inappropriate content from search results for those users. This approach may be unsuitable for users who have more nuanced views about appropriate digital content. For example a user might tolerate digital content depicting profanity and sexuality but might shun digital content depicting violence. A simplistic categorization of digital content as safe or unsafe does not account for varying user amenability to content with different characteristics.

A content server stores digital content including video audio image animation or text content which users of the content server may upload. In one embodiment a content server receives account permissions from an authorizing user associated with an authorizing account. The account permissions govern video access for a restricted account that the authorizing account supervises. The content server stores these account permissions. Additionally the content server receives a designation of a delegate account which is authorized to control video access by the restricted account from the authorizing user.

The content server receives a request to view a video from a client device associated with the restricted account. In response to the request the content server determines by retrieving the account permissions whether the restricted account is authorized to view the requested video. If the restricted account is authorized to view the requested video the content server transmits the requested video. In response to determining that the restricted account is not authorized to view the requested video the content server transmits an authorization request to the authorizing user or the delegate user. If either the authorizing user or the delegate user responds positively to the authorization request the content server transmits the requested video to the client device.

In one embodiment the content server transmits a notification to a supervising user including the authorizing user and a designated delegate user whenever the restricted account views a video. The content server may provide synchronized presentation of a video that the restricted account is viewing to a supervising user. To provide synchronized presentation the content server identifies a portion of the requested video that the client device is concurrently presenting and transmits the identified portion to the supervising user. In response to viewing the notification or the synchronized presentation of the video the supervising user may instruct the content server to revoke the restricted account s access to the video.

In one embodiment the account permissions include conditions based on content based rules and contextual rules. Example content based rules specify metadata or other properties associated with a video. Example contextual rules specify a time or a location. Account permissions may prohibit access to videos meeting certain conditions or may designate videos meeting certain conditions as permissible for restricted account. Other account permissions may designate videos meeting certain conditions as questionable. A restricted account may view a video designated as questionable with authorization from a supervising user.

The disclosed embodiments include a computer implemented method a system and a non transitory computer readable medium. The features and advantages described in this summary and the following description are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the disclosed subject matter.

The figures and the following description relate to particular embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of what is claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. Alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

A client device or accesses the content server through the network . By accessing the content server the client device or may perform content server functionality such as browsing digital content presenting digital content or uploading digital content. Presenting digital content includes playing a video or audio file as well as displaying an image or animation.

In one embodiment the client device or is a computer which is described further below with respect to . Example client devices or include a desktop a laptop a tablet a mobile device a smart television and a wearable device. The client device or may contain software such as a web browser or other application for presenting digital content from the content server . The client device or may include software such a video player an audio player or an animation player to support presentation of digital content.

In general a supervisor client device refers to a client device operated by a supervising user of a supervisor account or refers to the supervising user. The supervisor client device is used by a supervising user who has created a supervisor account with the content network . The supervisor client device accesses supervisor functionality including monitoring or controlling access to digital content by a restricted user. The restricted user has a restricted account used to access the content server through a restricted client device . In general a restricted client device refers to a client device operated by a restricted user of a restricted account or refers to the restricted user. For example the supervising user is a parent or manager and the corresponding restricted user is a child of the parent or an employee of the manager.

Functionality available to a supervisor account includes monitoring activity of a corresponding restricted account as well as controlling content server functionality available to the corresponding restricted account. Monitoring activity refers to receiving reports of other indicators of restricted account activity on the content server including current activity or historical activity. For example a supervising user receives notifications when the corresponding restricted user watches a video through the content server . As another example a supervising user may view a video concurrently transmitted to the corresponding restricted client device .

In various embodiments controlling content server functionality refers to determining functionality available to a restricted user. Content server functionality available to a user includes accessing digital content uploading digital content or interacting with other users of the content server . For example a supervising user may revoke restricted account access to a video or respond to a restricted account s request for authorization to view a video. As another example a supervising user may limit review or remove uploads made through a restricted account.

Supervising users include both authorizing users who access the content server through an authorizing account and delegate users who access the content server through a delegate account. An authorizing user exerts full administrative control over the restricted user and may appoint a delegate user to exert partial administrative control over the restricted user. For example the authorizing user is a child s parent and the delegate user is the child s older sibling babysitter or other caregiver. As another example the authorizing user is an employee s high level supervisor and the delegate user is the employee s direct supervisor. An authorizing user may create a restricted account supervised by the authorizing account may configure settings of the restricted account including account permissions and may authorize delegate users to supervise the restricted account.

To streamline content access management a user of an authorizing account may configure restricted account permissions which govern content server functionality available to the restricted user. Some account permissions govern digital content accessible to the restricted user. The content server uses these account permission to determine if digital content is prohibited permissible or questionable for a restricted account. Prohibited digital content is digital content inaccessible via the content server by a restricted client device . Permissible digital content is digital content accessible via the content server by a restricted client device without a supervising user authorizing access to the requested item of digital content. Questionable digital content is digital content accessible via the content server to a restricted client device with authorization by a supervising user where the authorization is specific to the requested item of digital content.

A delegate account can perform general functions of a supervisor account e.g. receiving video access notifications reviewing permissions requests revoking video access but cannot perform all the functions available to the authorizing account e.g. appointing delegate users establishing account permissions . In one embodiment an authorizing account may customize supervisor functionality available to a delegate account. For example an authorizing user permits an authorizing user to receive notifications of videos currently viewed by a restricted account but not to view the restricted account s previous watch history.

The restricted client device accesses content server functionality subject to limitations imposed by a supervising user. For example if the content server is providing a video to the restricted client device e.g. by streaming the video and if a supervisor account revokes access to the video then the content server stops providing the video to the restricted client device . As another example if a restricted client device is presenting a downloaded video and if the supervisor account revokes access to the video then the content server instructs the restricted client device to stop presenting the video. As another example if a restricted user of a restricted account cannot access a video then the restricted user may request authorization from a supervising user of a supervisor account. Responsive to receiving authorization from a supervisor account the restricted client device presents the video.

The network enables communications among the entities connected to them through one or more local area networks and or wide area networks. In one embodiment the network is the Internet and uses standard wired and or wireless communications technologies and or protocols. The network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX long term evolution LTE 3G 4G digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous transfer mode ATM InfiniBand and or PCI Express Advanced Switching. The networking protocols used on the network may include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or file transfer protocol FTP .

The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML extensible markup language XML and or JavaScript Object Notation JSON . In addition all or some of the transmitted data can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as the secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS virtual private networks VPNs and or Internet Protocol security IPsec . In another embodiment the entities use custom and or dedicated data communications technologies instead of or in addition to the ones described above.

The content server stores digital content uploaded by a user through a client device or and serves uploaded digital content to a viewing user through a client device . The content server may also store digital content acquired from content owners e.g. production companies record labels publishers . In one embodiment the content server includes a content interface module a content store a web server an access controller and an account store . The functionality of the illustrated components may be distributed in whole or in part among a different configuration of modules. Some described functionality may be optional for example in one embodiment the content server does not provide a content interface module .

The content server stores uploaded digital content in the content store . The content store may include the digital content itself e.g. the audio or video file or a pointer thereto e.g. a memory address a uniform resource identifier URI an internet protocol IP address . The content store also houses metadata associated with the digital content. Metadata are properties of the digital content and may indicate the digital content s source e.g. an uploader name an uploader user identifier and or attributes e.g. a video identifier a title a description a file size a file type a frame rate a resolution an upload date a channel including the digital content .

The content store also stores content categorizations associated with digital content. Content categorizations are metadata indicating the suitability of digital content for various groups of users. Content categorizations may summarize or quantify potentially offensive matter in digital content e.g. violence profanity nudity sexuality misogyny heteronormativity bigotry racism religious intolerance narcotic use drug use tobacco use alcohol use moral turpitude . Content categorizations may include ratings assigned to digital content by an external organization e.g. suggested age range recommendations tailored to a particular ideology .

The content interface module generates a content interface used to access content server functionality including browsing presenting and uploading digital content. The content interface may include a media player e.g. a video player an audio player an image viewer that presents content. The content interface module may retrieve and display metadata associated with the digital content from the content store such as a title upload data an uploader user identifier and content categorizations. The content interface module may incorporate a search interface or a recommendation interface for browsing content.

The content interface module may generate a limited or modified content interface for restricted accounts based on access determinations by the access controller . The content interface module may also generate additional interfaces for supervisor accounts to configure account permissions and to monitor restricted account activity. The content interface module is described further in conjunction with .

The access controller determines content server functionality available to a restricted account. In particular the access controller produces access determinations indicating whether an item of digital content is prohibited permitted or questionable. In one embodiment the content server transmits permitted content but not prohibited content to a restricted client device . The content server transmits questionable content to the restricted client device if authorization is received from a supervising user. In one embodiment the restricted client device may request authorization for questionable content but not for prohibited content. In an alternative embodiment the content server makes access determinations that do not include a subset of the prohibited permitted and questionable categories. For example the access controller determines whether content is permitted or questionable but does not determine whether content is prohibited. As another example the access controller determines whether content is permitted or prohibited but does not determine whether content is questionable.

Besides producing access determinations for digital content the access controller determines whether a restricted account may access other content server functionality including uploading digital content. In one embodiment a client device or captures a video recording or audio recording of a user concurrently with presenting digital content typically audio or video as part of a karaoke mode. The access controller determines whether a restricted user may upload digital content including digital content captured during karaoke mode. The access controller is described further in conjunction with .

The account store contains account profiles of content server users. An account profile includes information provided by a user of an account to the content server including a user identifier access credentials and user preferences. An account profile indicates relationships with other accounts. For example an account profile of a supervisor account includes a user identifier of a restricted account corresponding to the supervisor account. An account may be a supervisor account with respect to a restricted account while simultaneously being a restricted account with respect to another supervisor account. Insofar as the account store contains personal information provided by a user a user s account profile includes privacy settings established by a user to control use and sharing of personal information.

The account store contains account permissions established by an authorizing user. In general account permissions in the account store are conditional rules. An account permission specifies one or more conditions as well as an access determination e.g. permissible questionable prohibited made if the conditions are met.

The conditional rules in account permissions include content based rules contextual rules or a combination thereof. A content based rule applies to a digital content request if the metadata of the requested digital content matches metadata specified by the content based rule. Example metadata in a content based rule includes a title a channel an uploading account a content categorization an associated personality e.g. actor artist comedian composer author director producer a grouping of digital content e.g. by genre by show by franchise by series by distributor or a combination thereof. A contextual rule applies to a digital content depending on the situation in which the digital content was requested. For example contextual rules are based at least in part on a request time by the restricted user a geographic location of the restricted client device at the request time a geographic location of the corresponding supervisor client device at the request time or a combination thereof.

The web server links the content server via the network to the client devices and . The web server serves web pages as well as other content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may receive uploaded content items from the one or more client devices . Additionally the web server communicates instructions from the content interface for viewing digital content and for processing received input from a user of a client device . Additionally the web server may provide application programming interface API functionality to send data directly to an application native to a client device s operating system such as IOS ANDROID or WEBOS .

The access control engine queries the modules to make an access determination with respect to a given content item in response to a request from a restricted client device . In one embodiment the modules consult an access rules database not illustrated . An entry of the access rules database includes descriptive information about an access rule inputs from an authorizing user to configure the access rule and deterministic logic to make an access determination with respect to the access rule for a given item of digital content. The modules and consult a supervisor to make a supervisor based access determination. The modules and query content based rules among the account permissions in the account store to make a content based access determination. The modules and query contextual rules among the account permissions in the account store to make a contextual access determination. The access control engine synthesizes preliminary access determinations made by the modules to output a final access determination. For example some of the modules e.g. those that do not find a relevant account permission do not make an access determination but the access determinations made by the other modules e.g. those that do find a relevant account permission are synthesized by the access control engine .

In one embodiment the access control engine outputs the most restrictive access determination determined by the modules . For example if a contextual rule indicates that a user is allowed to view content but a content based rule indicates that the requested digital content is prohibited then the final access determination is that the digital content is prohibited.

In one embodiment the access control engine prioritizes access determinations from different modules to resolve conflicting access determinations. The access control engine may consult a ranking of access rules. The ranking of access rules may include some hard coded rankings applied across all accounts. For example the access control engine prioritizes access rules concerning instructions from a supervising user about a particular item of digital content over a generic content based rule. The ranking of access rules may be configurable by an authorizing user. For example an authorizing user specifies e.g. as part of configuring an authorizing account that content based access rules rank above contextual rules. In one implementation if the whitelist inspector indicates that the digital content is permissible but if the notification generator indicates that the digital content is prohibited then the access control engine determines that the digital content is prohibited because the notification generator ranks above the whitelist inspector .

The delegation manager determines whether a particular account is a delegate account with respect to a restricted account by querying account preferences configured by an authorizing user. For example an entry in the account store corresponding to a delegate account includes one or more paired listings of a a restricted account that the delegate user supervises and b an authorizing account that authorized the delegate user to supervise the restricted account. Similarly an entry for a restricted account indicates an authorizing account supervising the restricted account as well as any delegate accounts designated by the authorizing user to supervise the restricted account. The authorizing user designates a delegate account as a supervising user with respect to a restricted account through an interface to configure preferences of the authorizing account. In one embodiment an authorizing account may unconditionally designate an account as a delegate account with respect to a restricted user. Alternatively or additionally an authorizing account conditionally designates an account as a delegate account based on contextual rules e.g. time location location relative to the client device . For example a parent with an authorizing account designates an account of a teacher as a delegate account supervising a restricted account of the parent s child during the school day but not during the evening. The contextual rule may be based on the location of client device or of the authorizing user the delegate user or the restricted user. The contextual rule may also be based on a location of one of the entities client device or relative the location of another of the entities client device or . For example a babysitter is a delegate account relative to a restricted account when the supervisor client device of the babysitter is within a threshold location of the restricted client device that the restricted user is using.

The notification generator notifies the supervisor client device in response to the restricted client device presenting or requesting digital content. A generated notification includes metadata suitable to describe the digital content to the supervising user. For example the notification may include a title a brief description of the digital content and content categorizations associated with the digital content. The notification may also include a preview portion of the digital content e.g. a preview image or a pointer to the digital content for the supervising user to review. The notification generator may receive access revocation requests from a supervisor client device regarding particular digital content. In response to an access revocation request the notification generator determines that the particular digital content is prohibited.

The authorization requestor generates an authorization request responsive to a restricted client device requesting access to questionable content. Similar to a notification request the authorization request includes relevant metadata a preview portion and or a pointer to the requested content. The content server transmits the authorization request to the supervisor client device e.g. via email via text message via a web browser via a push notification to an application associated with the content server and native to the operating system of the supervisor client device . The authorization requestor receives from the supervisor client device an authorization response which indicates whether the digital content is permissible or prohibited. The authorization response may be received through communication channels similar to those used to transmit the authorization request.

The blacklist inspector performs an access determination by consulting content based access rules specifying prohibited or questionable content. In one embodiment the account store stores the content based access rules corresponding to a particular restricted account. The stored content based access rules specify parameters used to determine if a content based access rule applies to an item of digital content and what access determination to make if the content based access rule applies. If digital content is associated with metadata that matches a content based access rule then the blacklist inspector applies the access determination specified by the access rule to the digital content. For example an access rule specifies that if digital content depicts a comedian who regularly uses foul language then the digital content is questionable. As another example an access rule specifies that if digital content is associated with a particular content categorization e.g. pervasive violence then the digital content is prohibited.

The whitelist inspector performs an access determination by consulting content based access rules specifying permissible content. If digital content is associated with metadata that matches a content based access rule then the whitelist inspector applies the access determination specified by the access rule to the digital content. For example an access rule indicates that if digital content was produced in association with the Corporation by Public Broadcasting then the content is permissible subject to another access rule with high priority. As another example an access rule specifies that if digital content is associated with a particular content categorization e.g. rated PG by the Motion Picture Association of America then the digital content is permissible.

In one embodiment the whitelist inspector determines that digital content is permissible for a restricted account only if the digital content matches a content based access rule indicating that the content is permissible. Hence if no content based access rules indicate that digital content is permissible the whitelist inspector defaults to determining that the digital content is prohibited. For example the whitelist inspector consults a content based access rule indicating that a video is permissible if the video is rated as suitable for children twelve and under as determined from a content categorization received from an external organization . In this example the whitelist inspector determines that an unrated video i.e. a video without a suitable rating indicated in a content categorization is prohibited.

In some cases the blacklist inspector and the whitelist inspector may make contradictory access determinations. In one embodiment a content based access rule indicates that the content based access rule ranks above one or more other access rules and is hence an exception to those other access rules. To resolve conflicts the access control engine may modify the ranking of access rules to reflect an exception indicated by an access rule. For example the blacklist inspector designates digital content as prohibited due to a blacklist rule e.g. due to a restricted rating from an external organization but the whitelist inspector identifies a whitelist access rule that acts as an exception to the blacklist rule e.g. the digital content has a restricted rating only because of profanity . In this example the access control engine uses the exception embedded in the whitelist rule to determine that the whitelist rule ranks above the blacklist rule so the digital content is therefore permissible.

The time restriction manager performs an access determination according to when the restricted account requested the digital content. The time restriction manager obtains the request time and identifies one or more contextual rules that apply at the request time. The time restricted manager may compare the current time to time ranges specified by time based contextual rules. If the current time is within the time range specified by a time based contextual rule then that time based contextual rule applies. Based on the identified one or more contextual rules the time restriction manager determines whether the digital content request is permissible questionable or prohibited. For example the time restriction manager determines that a content request from an employee s restricted account is questionable because it occurs during the employee s workday.

The duration restriction manager performs an access determination according to the duration of time the restricted account has viewed digital content. The duration restriction manager determines the duration of time that a restricted account has viewed digital content and identifies one or more contextual rules that apply to the determined duration. The duration restriction manager may determine the duration of time by summing or otherwise combining watch times recorded in an activity history of the restricted account. To identify contextual rules that apply based on the determined duration the duration restriction manager compares the determined duration to a threshold duration specified by the contextual rule. For example if the determined duration equals or exceeds a threshold duration of a contextual rule then the contextual rule applies. Based on the identified one or more contextual rules the duration restriction manager performs the access determination. For example the duration restriction manager determines that a content request for cartoons is prohibited because the requesting restricted account has watched non educational content for more than a threshold duration of time on the day the cartoon was requested.

The location restriction manager performs an access determination according to a geographic location of a client device or associated with the restricted account. The location restriction manager obtains the geographic location of a relevant client device or and identifies one or more contextual rules that apply to the determined one or more locations. The geographical location of the client device or may be inferred from a network path of an interaction between the client device or and the content server e.g. based on a location associated with an IP internet protocol address . The geographical location may also be transmitted by the client device or e.g. a set of global positioning system coordinates . The location restriction manager identifies applicable contextual rules by comparing the location of the client device or to one or more locations specified by a contextual rule. For example if the client device or is within a threshold distance of the specified location then the contextual rule applies. Based on the identified one or more contextual rules the location restriction manager performs the access determination. For example the location restriction manager determines that a request for digital content from a child s restricted account is prohibited because the child s restricted client device is not at home.

In one embodiment the location restriction manager performs an access determination by comparing the geographic location of a restricted client device to the geographic location of a corresponding supervisor client device . The location restriction manager determines a geographic distance between the location of the restricted client device and the location of a corresponding supervisor client device e.g. the closest supervisor client device . Based on a comparison of the distance to a threshold distance the location restriction manager performs an access determination. For example if the distance between the supervisor client device and the restricted client device equals or exceeds a threshold then requested digital content is prohibited.

Insofar as the content server collects geographic location data from a user s client device or the user may establish account permissions governing use of location data. For example a restricted user may limit sharing of location data with other users such as a supervising user.

The restricted account interface module generates a restricted account interface customized for a restricted account. In one embodiment the restricted account interface module modifies a generic content interface to remove digital content prohibited for the restricted account. The restricted account interface module may suppress prohibited content as determined by the access controller from search results and recommended content displayed by the content interface. The restricted account interface displays questionable content and permissible content as determined by the access controller but the questionable content includes an indication that it is viewable responsive only to authorization from a supervising user. The restricted account interface module may generate a sanitized preview of prohibited or questionable content. For example this sanitized preview omits a preview image thumbnail and redacts text e.g. in the title signifying a potentially offensive concept.

The account configuration interface module generates a supervisor interface for a supervising user to configure account settings. Using the supervisor interface a supervising user may create a restricted account. Alternatively or additionally a supervisor account may request that another account grant the supervising administrative control thereby making the other account a restricted account. The supervisor interface also provides for configuration of restricted account permissions and other restricted account settings. Using the supervisor interface a supervisor account may appoint a delegate account or establish contextual rules governing circumstances under which the delegate account is a supervisor account of a restricted account. The account store is then updated to reflect the account settings or access rules modified or selected by the authorizing user.

The synchronized presentation interface module generates a synchronized presentation interface. Using the synchronized presentation interface a supervising user may view digital content concurrently watched by a restricted account. The synchronized presentation interface module identifies a portion of the digital content being watched by the restricted user. For example the portion is received from the restricted client device or is identified from the last portion of content transmitted to the restricted client device . The synchronized presentation interface then presents the identified portion of the digital content through the supervisor client device . The synchronized presentation interface also includes controls for the supervising user to revoke content access.

The karaoke interface module generates a karaoke interface for a supervising user to monitor a restricted user using karaoke mode. In karaoke mode a user s client device or captures digital content while concurrently presenting other digital content. For example a restricted client device captures a user singing karaoke style to the instrumental track from a popular song. In one embodiment the karaoke interface presents the digital content transmitted to the restricted client device alongside the digital content uploaded by the restricted client device . The karaoke interface also includes controls for the supervising user to terminate karaoke mode use by the restricted account or to revoke the restricted account s access to the transmitted digital content.

The content server receives account permissions from an authorizing user associated with an authorizing account. The account permissions govern video access by the restricted account. The content server stores the account permissions in the account store . The content server also receives from the authorizing user a designation of a delegate account authorized to control video access by the restricted account.

The content server receives a request to view a video from a restricted client device which is associated with the restricted account. In response the access controller retrieves relevant account permissions. For example the access controller identifies relevant content based rules that apply to the requested digital content or contextual rules that apply given the circumstances of the request . Based on the retrieved account permissions the access controller determines whether the user is authorized to view the requested video.

To determine whether the user is authorized to view the video in one embodiment the access controller determines whether authorization is needed from a supervisor account for the restricted account to view the video. For example if the access controller determines that the requested video is permissible or prohibited then authorization is not needed. In this example if the access controller determines that the requested video is questionable then authorization is needed.

Responsive to determining that authorization is needed for the restricted account to view the video the access controller determines an appropriate supervisor account that may authorize access to the video. The content server requests authorization by transmitting an authorization request to the determined supervisor account. For example the content server transmits an authorization request to a delegate user associated with the delegate account designated by the authorizing user.

The content server receives a response to the authorization request from the supervisor account. The access controller determines whether access is authorized for the restricted user based on the response. For example a response is received from a delegate user who grants authorization for the restricted account to view the video. Accordingly the access controller determines that the requested video is permissible for the restricted account.

If authorization from a supervisor account is not necessary the access controller determines access based on the retrieved account permissions. For example the access controller determines that the video is permissible or prohibited. Absent an intervention from a supervising user the access controller determines whether access is authorized from the account permissions alone.

If access is authorized then the content server transmits the requested video the restricted client device . For example responsive to receiving a response from a delegate account authorizing access the content server transmits the requested video. If access is not authorized then the content server does not transmit the requested video and may transmit a notification of access denial to the restricted account.

A restricted client device requests a video. The content server receives the digital content request and determines that the restricted client device is authorized to access the video e.g. by the method described in conjunction with . The content server transmits the video to the restricted client device which presents the video. In one embodiment the restricted client device transmits to the content server the portion or a pointer to the portion of the video that it is presenting.

In response to transmitting the video the content server transmits a notification to a supervisor client device associated with at least one supervisor account e.g. a delegate account an authorizing account . The supervisor client device notifies the supervising user that the restricted user is viewing a video. The supervisor client device may request synchronized presentation of the video that the restricted user is watching.

In response to receiving a request for synchronized presentation of the video the content server identifies the portion of video that the user is viewing. For example the content server identifies what the restricted user is watching based on portions of the video recently transmitted to the restricted client device the times the portions were transmitted and the current time. The content server may also identify the portion of the video from reports of the current portion transmitted from the restricted client device . The content server transmits the identified portion of the video to the supervisor client device which presents the video in synchrony with the video presented on the restricted client device .

In response to a notification or in response to concurrently watching the video a supervising user may decide to revoke access to the video. The supervisor client device transmits a request for revocation of content access. In response to receiving the request the content server revokes content access for the restricted account. The content server may revoke content access by ceasing video transmissions to the restricted client device and or transmitting an instruction mandating that the restricted client device s video player stop playing the video. In response to revoking content access for the restricted account the content server transmits a notification of access revocation and the restricted client device ceases presenting the video.

The client devices and and the content server may be implemented using one or more computers. is a high level block diagram illustrating an example computer usable to implement entities of the content sharing environment in accordance with one embodiment.

The computer includes at least one processor e.g. a central processing unit a graphics processing unit coupled to a chipset . The chipset includes a memory controller hub and an input output I O controller hub . A memory and a graphics adapter are coupled to the memory controller hub and a display is coupled to the graphics adapter . A storage device keyboard pointing device and network adapter are coupled to the I O controller hub . Other embodiments of the computer have different architectures.

The storage device is a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as a hard drive compact disk read only memory CD ROM DVD or a solid state memory device. The memory holds instructions and data used by the processor . The processor may include one or more processors having one or more cores that execute instructions. The pointing device is a mouse track ball or other type of pointing device and is used in combination with the keyboard to input data into the computer . The graphics adapter displays digital content and other images and information on the display . The network adapter couples the computer to one or more computer networks e.g. network .

The computer is adapted to execute computer program modules for providing functionality described herein including presenting digital content playlist lookup and or metadata generation. As used herein the term module refers to computer program logic used to provide the specified functionality. Thus a module can be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. In one embodiment of a computer that implements the content server program modules such as the access controller and the content interface module are stored on the storage device loaded into the memory and executed by the processor .

The types of computers used by the entities of the content sharing environment can vary depending upon the embodiment and the processing power required by the entity. For example the client device or is a smart phone tablet laptop or desktop computer. As another example the content server might comprise multiple blade servers working together to provide the functionality described herein. The computers may contain duplicates of some components or may lack some of the components described above e.g. a keyboard a graphics adapter a pointing device a display . For example the content server run in a single computer or multiple computers communicating with each other through a network such as in a server farm.

Although the foregoing description has focused primarily on videos for purposes of providing concrete illustration various embodiments may incorporate different types of digital content. In one embodiment the content server contains audio files which may be presented through an audio player instead of a video player. It should be noted that videos may contain audio files as well. As another embodiment the content server contains images and or animations organized in albums instead of playlists. Rather than using a video or an audio player these images and or animations may be presented in a slideshow which may contain auto play functionality e.g. the slideshow retrieves a next image or animation after a period of time . In yet another embodiment the digital content includes text. Digital content may include combinations of video audio images animations and or text.

Some portions of above description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. To implement these operations the content server may use a non transitory computer readable medium that stores the operations as instructions executable by one or more processors. Any of the operations processes or steps described herein may be performed using one or more processors. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the term connected to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. In another example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the embodiments. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Additional alternative structural and functional designs may be implemented for a system and a process for a content sharing environment. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

