---

title: Reputation system in a default network
abstract: A system and a method are disclosed for computing a reputation score for user profiles of a social network according to actions taken by user profiles of the social network. The reputation score may be based on interactions of a user profile with a content item or based on interactions of user profiles with other user profiles. Actions may be weighted differently in calculating a reputation score as a sum of products of action counts and actions weights. Reputation scores calculated may be used to rank user profiles and to determine reputation levels for user profiles based on exceeding a threshold in reputation score or reputation ranking.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09380073&OS=09380073&RS=09380073
owner: FOXWORDY INC.
number: 09380073
owner_city: San Carlos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140224
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 889 009 filed Oct. 9 2013 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The disclosure generally relates to the field of social networking and more particularly to quantifying user reputation in a social network computing system.

Professionals in a work environment may judge the quality of each other s work and advice based on prior experiences with a colleague giving advice as well as knowledge about the colleague s expertise. In interactions with an unmet interlocutor through a website or a social network professionals have little information to judge the quality of advice opinions or work received. Additionally many website and social networks allow the use of full anonymity through pseudonyms that may entirely obscure an interlocutor s identity. Interlocutors may claim an identity of an entirely different person due to difficulty of user identity verification and lack of resources for policing. Although some have previously attempted to quantify user reliability such attempts use a single factor. For example online forums use number of user posts as a proxy for user experience and reliability.

The Figures FIGS. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of what is claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

One embodiment of a disclosed system and method and computer readable storage medium includes quantifying reputation of user profiles within a default network computing system. A default network computing system contains computer systems configured as client computer systems or client devices or clients and server computer systems or server devices or servers connected by a network. Users of the default network computing system may upload data including personal information and content to a server and may view data uploaded by other users. The default network server contains storage modules to organize uploaded data for manipulation and retrieval as well as engines to process and retrieve data in a form useful to the user. Users create user profiles which are organized into one or more default networks which contain user profiles sharing one or more attributes. User profiles may also create connections with other user profiles.

When user profiles interact with or upload content to the default network computing system a record of the interaction is made. A count of actions made through a user profile is used to calculate a reputation score. The weighting of each action count may be varied so the reputation score calculated for a user profile better reflects the user profiles perception by users of the default network computing system. Based on the calculated reputation score user profiles are ranked and reputation levels for user profiles are determined based on the user rankings. Reputations scores rankings and reputation levels may be displayed as part of user profiles or in connection with interactions of a user profile in the default network computing system.

Turning first to FIG. it is a block diagram illustrating components of an example machine able to read instructions from a machine readable medium and execute them in a processor or controller . Specifically shows a diagrammatic representation of a machine in the example form of a computer system within which instructions e.g. software for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein may be executed. In alternative embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server machine or device or a client machine or device in a server client network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment.

The machine may be a server device or computer or a client device or computer that can be structured as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone a smartphone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs one or more radio frequency integrated circuits RFICs or any combination of these a main memory and a static memory which are configured to communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include graphics display unit e.g. a plasma display panel PDP a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instrument a storage unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device which also are configured to communicate via the bus .

The storage unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions e.g. software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory or within the processor e.g. within a processor s cache memory during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The instructions e.g. software may be transmitted or received over a network e.g. WiFi 3G 4G Ethernet digital subscriber line DSL fiber optic network via the network interface device .

While machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions e.g. instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing instructions e.g. instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies disclosed herein. The term machine readable medium includes but not be limited to data repositories in the form of solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

Referring now to illustrated is a block diagram of a default network environment in an example embodiment. The default network environment includes one or more client device e.g. a personal computer a tablet a smartphone a cellular phone a terminal a smart television a personal digital assistant PDA a smart watch a wearable computer a network and a network server . A computer system may be used in some embodiments of the client device and or network server . The one or more client devices are coupled to the network which is in turn coupled to the network server . In an alternate embodiment additional networks client devices and or network servers may be present. For example an additional network server may act as a proxy server between the one or more client devices and another network server .

The one or more client devices may be used by users to view upload submit and interact with content in the default network. For example a user may provide a numerical rating of content uploaded by another user. Users of the one or more client devices may create user profiles and may connect their user profiles on the default network to other user profiles on the default network. Users of the one or more client devices may declare or modify preferences governing their user profile and or content they upload. For example a user may limit who may view content that the user has uploaded. In an example embodiment HyperText Markup Language HTML code is used to display content on the client device . Alternate embodiments may use other data interchange formats such as Extensible Markup Language XML or JavaScript Object Notation JSON . A client device may be associated with a single user profile or the client device may be associated with multiple user profiles. In an embodiment a user may access their user profile through multiple client devices .

In one embodiment the network server stores data about the default network including user profiles content and connections between users. The network server may retrieve and or process data as requested by users of client devices . In an embodiment HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP may be used to exchange or transfer data between a network server and a client device using HTTP methods including GET POST PUT and DELETE. In an alternate embodiment some or all of the processing and or storing functions of the network server may be performed by one or more client devices alone or in combination with a network server . In an alternate embodiment a single device may implement components of a client device and a network server .

Referring now to illustrated is a block diagram of a network server used to implement the default network in one embodiment. The network server contains a user profile store a connection store a content store a default network store an interaction store a privacy store a reputation count store a reputation weights store a reputation calculation engine a reputation ranking engine and a user interface engine . The user profile store contains information that a user has provided e.g. a user profile created by a user . Example information in a user profile entry of the user profile store may include a unique user identification ID first name last name location company title account type expertise and practice area. Other information in a user profile may include previous work history education honors awards associations languages certifications contact details a profile image uploaded by the user and a written biographical summary or statement of purpose submitted by the user.

The connection store stores one or more connections made between users using their user profiles. In an embodiment connections are stored as connection entries between a user profile and another user profile. User profiles that are connected may be granted additional access to each other s user profiles or content that has been uploaded. Connections may be used to create an individualized activity feed for a user that summarizes recent actions taken by connections and other relevant users. An example activity feed may include recently uploaded excerpted content items recent comments on excerpted content items requests referrals or questions. Connections may be additionally be used to suggest new connections e.g. based on connections in common . User profiles that are connected to a particular user profile may have additional opportunities for interaction with the particular user profile such as suggesting new connections sending messages requests referrals content items or questions for example. A user profile connected with a particular user profile may have additional access to the particular user s excerpted content and or user profile page.

The content store stores excerpted content items uploaded by users of the default network computing system. In one embodiment excerpted content is stored as text or as a text file but other embodiments may contain content including images videos and or audio files. Excerpted content items in the content store may be accessed through a search interface or other links in the user interface. Excerpted content items may be displayed by the user interface engine . In an embodiment excerpted content items may be uploaded as Clauses defined herein as text entered into the default network user interface and Documents defined herein as files uploaded through the default network user interface. Example information stored in a content store entry may include content text content title a user identification ID of a user profile that created the content item time created time stored time updated time published content state content identification ID a content key generated by hashing the content text content metadata and content file size. The excerpted content store may be accessed by the user interface engine .

The default network store stores data relating to a default network. A user profile is associated with a default network based on one or more attributes a user profile shares with other user profiles in the default network. An example entry in the default network store may include a unique identifier for the default network user profiles associated with the default network and common attributes of those user profiles associated with the default network. In an alternate embodiment a user profile may be placed in one or more default networks according to one or more attributes chosen by a user who created the user profile. Attributes of a user profile may include practice area location expertise occupation industry sub industry employer and account type. For example a user profile may be placed in the same default network as other users having the same account type location and practice area. The default network may be used to suggest additional connections for a user profile i.e. other user profiles in the user s default network . Membership in a default network may grant access to user profiles of member users in the default network or excerpted content items or interactions uploaded by member users in the default network. In an embodiment the default network may be used to generate an activity feed listing excerpted content uploaded to other user profiles interactions with excerpted content and between user profiles.

The interaction store records interactions between user profiles. For example the interaction store may record when a user chooses to follow another user s user profile to state interest in another user s user profile to state another user profile as a favorite to share excerpted content with a user profile to comment on excerpted content to rate excerpted content up vote or like excerpted content to make or fulfill a request to ask or answer a question to request or make a referral to search for content to search for a user profile or to view content. Entries in the interaction store may include fields identifying the interaction type an interaction identification ID a user ID of the user profile that initiated the interaction a user ID of a user profile at which an interaction is directed a time the interaction occurred a time the interaction was updated an interaction ID corresponding to another interaction responsive to the interaction a message included in the interaction and other fields relevant to the particular interaction. The interaction store may be accessed by the user interface engine to generate user interaction histories or to suggest connections or excerpted content to a user profile. The interaction store may be used by the reputation count store to tally actions associated with a user.

The privacy store stores user preferences regarding privacy of user profile information user interactions and or content items uploaded by a user. Privacy preferences stored may control access to a user profile user interaction or excerpted content item by granting access to user profiles that have sufficient permission to the requested information. Other privacy preferences control how a user profile appears to other user profiles. For example a user can choose full anonymity no anonymity or partial anonymity e.g. no name displayed but job title and practice area displayed . Privacy settings may make a user profile user interaction or excerpted content item fully public fully private or available to certain user profiles e.g. user profiles with which a user profile is connected user profiles in the same default network . Settings in the privacy store may be checked by the reputation ranking engine or user interface engine . The privacy store may be updated when a user uploads excerpted content creates an interaction or modifies privacy settings generated by the user interface engine .

The reputation count store stores counts of user actions that may be included in a user reputation score. Actions by a user profile may affect the user s reputation score as can actions by other user profiles that interact with content created by a user e.g. excerpted content items or interactions . Actions by a user profile relevant to a reputation score include viewing content items on the default network interacting with content on the default network and uploading content to the default network. Actions by other user profiles relevant to a user profile s reputation score include views and interactions with content items created by the user. Additionally connections of a user profile may affect the user profile s reputation score. For example the reputation count store may tally views of an excerpted content item uploaded by a user. The reputation count store may also include a calculated score of user reputation points as well as calculated subtotals of user reputation points in particular categories. For example a popularity subtotal may be calculated and stored based on actions including views by other users of an excerpted content item uploaded by a user. In one embodiment reputation rankings and levels both for overall reputation and reputation subtotals are stored in the reputation count store . The reputation count store may be accessed and or modified by the reputation calculation engine the reputation ranking engine or the user interface engine .

The reputation weights store stores weights used to calculate a reputation score. The weights in the reputation store may correspond to the actions tracked by the reputation count store . For example the reputation weights store may include a weight corresponding to views of excerpted content uploaded by a user for use in calculating a reputation score and or calculating a popularity subtotal. In an alternate embodiment the reputation weights store may further include weights assigned to subtotals of actions that may modify their weighting in calculating a reputation score. The reputation weights store may be accessed by the reputation calculation engine . In an embodiment the weights in the reputation weights store are set by default network administrators.

The reputation calculation engine which may be configured with elements similar to computer system determines a reputation score for one or more user profiles of the default network computing system based on actions relating to the one or more user profiles as well as the connections of the user profiles. The reputation calculation engine uses the counts in the reputation count store and the weights in the reputation weights store to calculate a reputation score or reputation subtotals for categories of actions. In one embodiment the count of a plurality of actions is multiplied by a plurality of weights corresponding to the actions. The resulting products are summed to calculate the reputation score. In one embodiment actions are classified into categories of actions with corresponding reputation subtotals. Example categories may include effort popularity quality and influence. The reputation score or a subtotal for a reputation category may be displayed as part of a user s profile page or in connection with content items uploaded by a user. The reputation calculation may be performed periodically as part of an automatic routine or may be performed in response to a request from a user the reputation ranking engine or the user interface engine .

The reputation ranking engine which may be configured with elements similar to computer system creates rankings of user profiles based on reputation and assigns user profiles reputation levels based on reputation rankings. The reputation ranking engine uses reputation scores as calculated by the reputation calculation engine or as stored in the reputation count store . The reputation engine ranks user profiles based on their retrieved reputation totals. In an embodiment the reputation engine ranks user profiles based on subtotals calculated. Based on the ranking by total reputation or reputation within a category the reputation engine determines reputation levels for user profiles. Example reputation levels may be based on percentiles such as top twenty percent top ten percent and top five percent. Reputation rankings and or levels may be displayed as part of a user profile or in association with an interaction or a content item uploaded by a user. The reputation ranking and level determination may be performed periodically as part of an automatic routine or may be performed in response to a request from the user or the user interface engine .

The user interface engine which may be configured with elements similar to the computer system creates interfaces to provide for display on a client device . Example interfaces may be structured to display a user profile connections of a user profile pending connections potential connections connections in a default network excerpted content submitted by a user profile interactions between one user profile and another user profile and or aggregations of user interactions. Example interfaces may be structured to display data passively and or accept input from the user of a client device . The user interface engine may retrieve store and or modify data from the user profile store the connection store the content store the default network store the interaction store the privacy store and or the reputation count store . The user interface engine may provide inputs to or receive outputs from the reputation calculation engine or reputation ranking engine .

The network server may contain additional modules engines or stores. For example the network server may include a file store to store the original files for uploaded Documents. The network server may include a connection invitations store to track pending connection invitations. As another example the network server may contain a content misuse table which records content flagged as inappropriate or confidential. In an embodiment the network server may contain additional tables to categorize excerpted content items such as attributes associated with an excerpted content item. The network server may contain additional engines for handling connection requests for uploading excerpted content to the content store for creating and modifying default networks in the default network store or controlling access to data based on user privacy or anonymity preferences.

Referring to illustrated is an entry for tracking user actions used for calculation of a reputation score. In one embodiment data stores e.g. are implemented in a Relational Database Management System RDBMS implemented in a programming language such as Structured Query Language SQL PostgreSQL MySQL SQL Server or Oracle. An example reputation count entry implements the reputation count store and contains a user ID field a time created field a time updated field an item views field an item uploads field an item interactions field a views received field an interactions received field a connections field a connection reputations field an overall score field an overall rank field an overall level field a category score field a category rank field and a category level field . The user ID field specifies the user profile that the reputation count entry tracks for calculation of a reputation score. The user ID field matches the user ID in the specified user profile s entry in the user profile store . The time created field indicates the time at which the reputation count entry was created. The time updated field indicates the time at which the reputation count entry was last updated.

The item views field counts how many times the specified user profile has viewed content items on the default network computing system. Example items may include excerpted content items user profiles questions discussions topics forum posts resources requests referrals answers messages comments office swaps and search results. Views may include instances a user profile has requested an item for display as well as instances of downloading saving or copying an item. The item uploads field counts how many times the specified user profile has uploaded items such as those listed previously on the default network computing system. In an alternate embodiment modifications to an uploaded item may be counted by the item uploads field . The item interactions field counts how many times the specified user profile has interacted with items uploaded by user profiles of the default networking computing system. Example interactions may include marking as a favorite following sharing responding to commenting on liking downloading saving up voting or copying an item. Messaging a user profile or inviting a user profile to connect or join a group may also be included in interactions. The views received field counts how many other user profiles have viewed an item uploaded by or associated with the specified user profile. Views may include instances a user profile has seen an item displayed as well as instances of downloading saving or copying an item. The interactions received field counts how many other user profiles have interacted with a user profile or with an item uploaded by or associated with the specified user profile. The connections field includes a count of user profiles connected with the specified user profile. The connection reputations field is a measure of reputation of user profiles connected with the specified user profile. In example embodiments the connection reputations field may be a sum of reputations an arithmetic mean or geometric mean of reputations or some other aggregation of reputation scores. In an alternate embodiment the connection reputations field may use one or more categories in place of or in addition to calculating a reputation score. The overall score field indicates a reputation score calculated by the reputation calculation engine for the specified user profile. The overall rank field indicates a rank determined by the reputation ranking engine for the specified user profile. The rank may in example embodiments be an ordinal rank out of all user profiles user profiles in the same default network as the specified user profile user profile that are connected to the specified user profile user profiles having a common employer with the specified user profile or user profiles having the same account type as the specified user profile. In an alternate embodiment the rank may be a percentile rank. The overall level field indicates a reputation level for a user profile based on the determined rank. Reputation levels may correspond to percentiles of ranking thresholds of points or some combination. The category score field indicates a reputation score for a category calculated by the reputation calculation engine for the specified user profile. Categories of reputation may be calculated from some of counted actions. The category rank field indicates a rank determined by the reputation ranking engine for the specified user profile in a category. The category level field indicates a reputation level for a user profile in a category based on the determined rank in the category.

In an embodiment a reputation count entry may have additional entries or more specific entries. For example there may be a category score rank and level field for a plurality of categories such as effort popularity quality and influence. There may be a plurality of fields for actions included in a count. For example the item views field may be supplemented or replaced by fields counting excerpted content items questions referrals messages user profiles discussions and requests viewed. Additional fields may include counts of followers of the specified user profile inclusions in user created groups events hosted or the number of content items a user profile has created that have achieved a critical mass i.e. interactions with the post have exceeded a given threshold . In an alternate embodiment fields may attempt to quantify the specified user profile s experience based on information entered in the specified user s user profile including work history education and professional certifications.

Referring to illustrated is an entry for storing weights used in calculation of a reputation score. An example reputation weights entry implements the reputation weights store and contains an item views weight field an item uploads weight field an item interactions weight field a views received weight an interactions received weight a connections weight and a connection reputations weight . The weights stored in the reputation weights entry are used by the reputation calculation engine to calculate a reputation score and subtotals for categories of reputation. The item views weight specifies the weighting of the count in the item views field in the reputation calculation. In an embodiment the weight stored in the item views weight field may be an integer fraction or decimal number. Similarly the fields and specify the weighting of the count in the fields and respectively. In an alternate embodiment the weight fields may be supplemented or replaced by fields specifying weights for more specific actions. For example the item views weight field may be supplemented or replaced by fields specifying weights for counts of views of excerpted content items questions referrals messages user profiles discussions and requests.

Referring now to illustrated is a flow chart of an example process for calculating a reputation score of a user profile of the default network computing system. A user ID is received user action counts are retrieved the user action counts are multiplied by weights the resulting weighted products are summed and the sum is stored as a reputation score. In an embodiment the reputation score calculation is performed by the reputation calculation engine . A user ID is received from the user interface engine or from a process that periodically updates user reputation scores. In an alternate embodiment a request for a user reputation score may be received from an Application Programming Interface API .

A plurality of user action counts are retrieved from the reputation count store . Example user action counts may include the fields and of the reputation count store. The plurality of user action counts are multiplied by a plurality of weights retrieved from the reputation weights store . Example connection weights include those in the fields and . The weight by which an action count is multiplied corresponds to a particular action count in one embodiment. In an alternate embodiment a weight may be used for multiplying a plurality of action counts. The products resulting from multiplying the action counts by weights are summed . In an alternate embodiment a balancing function such a logarithm or root may be applied to the products before they are summed for encouraging broader user participation in all counted actions. The resulting sum is stored as a reputation score in overall score field . In an alternate embodiment the reputation score is not stored but may be provided for display or otherwise used e.g. through an API . The reputation score calculation may be repeated using selected action counts to calculate one or more categories of reputation for storage in the category score field .

Referring now to illustrated is a flow chart of an example process for determining a reputation level of a user profile of the default network computing system. A plurality of user IDs are received reputation scores are retrieved user profiles are ranked by reputation score reputation levels are determined reputation data is updated user profiles are notified and the reputation levels are displayed . The reputation level determination is performed by the reputation ranking engine in one embodiment. The plurality of user IDs may be received from the user interface engine a routine that periodically ranks user profiles an API or another module of the network server . The plurality of users IDs may comprise all the user profiles of the default network computing system user profiles from a default network user profiles connected with a particular user profile user profiles within a user created group user profiles having a particular account type user profiles having a particular location or other groupings of user profiles.

Reputation scores corresponding to the received user IDs are retrieved from the reputation count store . In an embodiment the overall score field is used. In another embodiment where user profiles are ranked by a category the category score field may be used. The user profiles specified by the received user IDs are ranked by the retrieved reputation scores. Using the ranking of user profiles by reputation reputation levels are determined for the plurality of user profiles that were received . Reputation levels may be determined based on exceeding a percentile threshold the percentile calculated from the ranking of the received user profiles in one embodiment. In an alternate embodiment reputation levels may be determined based on exceeding one or more thresholds of reputation score. Reputation levels may correspond to overall scores or may correspond to a category of reputation. User profiles having a reputation ranking or score that falls below a threshold may not have a reputation level or may have a non displaying reputation level.

Reputation data in the reputation count store is updated based on the determined ranks and determined reputation levels. For example if the reputation scores retrieved measured overall reputation then the rank is stored in the overall rank field and the reputation level is stored in the overall level field . If the reputations scores retrieved correspond to categories of reputation then the rank is stored in the category rank field and the reputation level is stored in the category level field . User profiles are notified of the results of the reputation level determination . User profiles may be notified using means of communication including email messages within the default network computing system a push notification to smart phone of a text message. In one embodiment user profiles that have attained particular reputation levels are notified . In an alternate embodiment user profiles are notified of their ranking regardless of attaining a reputation level. The reputation level may be displayed on user profiles corresponding to the user profiles that were received or in interactions associated with those user profiles. In an embodiment one or more of updating reputation data notifying user profiles or displaying reputation level may be omitted.

Referring to illustrated is an example user interface for viewing reputation scores reputation levels and reputation rankings in the default network computing system. The user privacy reputation interface contains a reputation score indicator a reputation level indicator a reputation category display and a reputation ranking . The reputation category display includes reputation categories and a reputation category graphic . The example reputation categories included are an influence category A a quality category B an effort category C and a leadership category D. The reputation ranking contains a user identifier and a reputation points display .

The reputation score indicator indicates a displayed user profile s overall reputation score as stored in the overall score field of the reputation score entry corresponding to the displayed user profile. The reputation level indicator indicates a user profile s reputation level based on overall reputation score as stored in the overall level field . In the given example the user profile has ranked in the top five percent of ranked user profiles. In an alternate embodiment reputation levels may be given different names e.g. silver gold platinum .

The reputation category display indicates how much actions within various categories have contributed to the total reputation score. The reputation categories indicate reputation points within a category as taken from the category score field and ranking within a category as taken from the category level field . The reputation category graphic visually displays the relative points in each category of the reputation score. The colors of the reputation category graphic match the colors of the corresponding categories among the reputation categories and the areas are proportional to the percentage of the reputation score that comes from the corresponding categories.

The reputation ranking lists the top user profiles from a reputation ranking. In the displayed embodiment five user profiles having high rankings are displayed however in alternate embodiments an arbitrary number of user profiles may be listed as part of the reputation ranking . The user profiles displayed in the reputation ranking have user identifiers . The data in the user identifier may be retrieved from the user profile store and displayed subject to restrictions in the privacy store . For example if a user profile s anonymity level is set to partial anonymity the user profile s name and or company may be hidden from the user identifiers . For example if a user has specified that the user profile s reputation visibility is user only i.e. only the user profile may see the user s reputation then the reputation ranking may not include the user profile. The reputation points display indicates how many reputation points a ranked user profile has. In one embodiment the reputation points display contains a horizontal bar having an area is proportional to the reputation points of a user profile. In an alternate embodiment the reputation ranking may include an indication of the user profile s reputation level. In an alternate embodiment user profiles may be ranked by reputation after filtering by an attribute selected by a user profile. For example a viewing user may desire to view the user profiles with top reputations among user profiles in a particular practice area and or location.

The disclosed embodiments beneficially allow for quantification of user reputation in the social networking environment based both on actions taken by a scored user profile and actions taken by other user profiles in response to the scored user profile. The computation of categories provides more insight into how a user profile has accumulated a reputation score which exposes unbalanced interaction behavior to provide a disincentive for manipulation of the reputation system. The use of reputation levels contextualizes a user profile s reputation score within the community of default network user profiles which makes a reputation score more intuitively valuable. Rankings of user profiles by reputation may be used to seek out leaders in the default network computing system. Coupled with other attributes of the default network computing system the reputation system improves the quality and verifiability of information disseminated on the default network computing system.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms for example as illustrated in . Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors e.g. processor that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs . 

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for quantifying user reputation in a default network based on user attributes through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

