---

title: Method and apparatus for providing a contextual menu in a map display
abstract: An approach is provided for presenting a contextual menu in a map display. A contextual menu platform determines an input for a delineation of at least one route, at least one geographical area, or a combination thereof in at least one map user interface of at least one device. The contextual menu platform determines contextual information associated with the at least one route, the at least one geographical area, the at least one map user interface, the at least one device, at least one user associated with the at least one device, or a combination thereof. The contextual menu platform also determines one or more contextual menu options based, at least in part, on the contextual information. The contextual menu platform further causes, at least in part, a presentation of at least one contextual menu to present the one or more contextual menu options in the at least one map user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09372092&OS=09372092&RS=09372092
owner: HERE Global B.V.
number: 09372092
owner_city: Veldhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20140808
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of development has been in the area of mapping and navigation applications and services where rapid advancements have resulted in a proliferation of functions and options available to end users. However this increased number of map related functions and options may also make it more difficult for users to discover or access them. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers face significant technical challenges to exposing potentially relevant functions and options particularly when a user interacts with a map display.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for providing a contextual menu in a map display that can expose relevant functions and or menu options in the map display based on a route and or geographical area indicated or otherwise selected by a user.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining an input for a delineation of at least one route at least one geographical area or a combination thereof in at least one map user interface of at least one device. The method also comprises determining contextual information associated with the at least one route the at least one geographical area the at least one map user interface the at least one device at least one user associated with the at least one device or a combination thereof. The method further comprises determining one or more contextual menu options based at least in part on the contextual information. The method further comprises causing at least in part a presentation of at least one contextual menu of the one or more contextual menu options in the at least one map user interface.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine an input for a delineation of at least one route at least one geographical area or a combination thereof in at least one map user interface of at least one device. The apparatus is also caused to determine contextual information associated with the at least one route the at least one geographical area the at least one map user interface the at least one device at least one user associated with the at least one device or a combination thereof. The apparatus is further caused to determine one or more contextual menu options based at least in part on the contextual information. The apparatus is further caused to cause at least in part a presentation of at least one contextual menu of the one or more contextual menu options in the at least one map user interface.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine an input for a delineation of at least one route at least one geographical area or a combination thereof in at least one map user interface of at least one device. The apparatus is also caused to determine contextual information associated with the at least one route the at least one geographical area the at least one map user interface the at least one device at least one user associated with the at least one device or a combination thereof. The apparatus is further caused to determine one or more contextual menu options based at least in part on the contextual information. The apparatus is further caused to cause at least in part a presentation of at least one contextual menu of the one or more contextual menu options in the at least one map user interface.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining an input for a delineation of at least one route at least one geographical area or a combination thereof in at least one map user interface of at least one device. The apparatus also comprises means for determining contextual information associated with the at least one route the at least one geographical area the at least one map user interface the at least one device at least one user associated with the at least one device or a combination thereof. The apparatus further comprises means for determining one or more contextual menu options based at least in part on the contextual information. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part a presentation of at least one contextual menu of the one or more contextual menu options in the at least one map user interface.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of originally filed claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for providing a contextual menu in a map display are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. For example systems and or methods described herein may include more less or different components and or steps and order arrangement may be modified. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

To address this challenge a system of introduces a capability to provide a contextual menu in a map display or user interface based on a route a geographical area or a combination thereof delineated by a user in the map display or user interface. In one embodiment the route and or geographical area can be delineated using any input modality supported by at least one user equipment UE e.g. a mobile phone or an embedded device such as a car head unit personal navigation device etc. operating in the system . In one embodiment delineating an area also include selecting map objects or features included within or proximate to the delineated area or route. In this way the map objects or features can also be used to determine contextual information for generating the contextual menu. By way of example an input modality can include any combination of a drawing input modality a gesture input modality a voice input modality a gaze tracking input modality a text input modality and the like. It is noted that the example input modalities discussed herein are provided as examples and not as limitations to the various embodiments described herein.

In other words in one embodiment e.g. using a drawing input modality a user can draw a route or a boundary surrounding a geographical area in a map user interface of one or more applications also collectively referred to as applications executing on the UE to specify the route or geographical area as input for generating a contextual menu. In one embodiment the applications may include at least in part 1 native mapping navigation applications or services 2 client applications to one or more mapping navigation services e.g. services also collectively referred to as services provided by a services platform 3 client applications to one or more mapping content providers also collectively referred to as content providers 4 a browser application configured to access one or more mapping web portals to the services and or the content providers or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment the services provide service functions and or content using information or data stored in one or more databases e.g. a geographic database . In one embodiment the UE and or the application may download and or cache all or a portion of the geographic database as a local geographic database to provide mapping and or related data for generating a contextual menu.

In one embodiment the geographic databases and or are maintained by the content providers . By way of example a content provider can be a map content provider that provides mapping and location information in the form of the geographic database . Moreover the content providers maintain the geographic database as a server side component that is kept up to date.

In yet another embodiment the service may include services other than mapping navigation services e.g. social networking services reservation services content sharing services etc. that can provide functions and or menu options for incorporation into a contextual menu as generated according to the various embodiments described herein.

As described above in one embodiment the UE is a client of at least one of the services e.g. a location based service such as a mapping or navigation service that depends on the information from the server side geographic database . Accordingly the UE includes a version of all or a portion of geographic database that is stored locally at the UE as the geographic database . By way of example the UE can execute one or more applications e.g. client applications of the services to access the locally stored geographic database .

In one embodiment the system includes a contextual menu platform e.g. a network side component and or a contextual menu manager e.g. a client side or a stand alone component of the UE for processing the input delineating the route or geographical area to generate and present the contextual menu in the map display or user interface. It is contemplated that the contextual menu platform and the contextual menu manager can operate in a cooperative mode e.g. via a client server relationship over a communication network or in an independent mode to provide all or a portion of the contextual menu functions of the various embodiments described herein. In addition the contextual menu manager may be a separate component of the UE or a sub component module of any of the applications executing on the UE .

In one embodiment the system e.g. via the contextual menu platform and or the contextual menu manager determines contextual information associated with the route and or geographical area delineated by the user to determine one or more menu options to include in a contextual menu. By way of example contextual information about a route or geographical area may include but is not limited to neighborhood information weather information proximity type of area demographics distance available points of interest etc.

In another embodiment the system may determine contextual information associated with the UE presenting map display e.g. activity at the device speed of the device movement of the device sensed mode of transport location of the device other sensor information prior search history etc. . In addition the system may determine contextual information about one or more users of the UE e.g. user profile information user preference information historical use information etc. . It is contemplated that the system can gather or query for any other type of contextual information associated with any component or module of the system e.g. other devices operating in the system the applications services content providers etc. . This contextual information is then used to determine what menu options and or functions to expose to a user in the contextual menu.

In one embodiment the system may determine contextual information and or contextual menu options to present based on characteristics associated with the input modality used for delineating the route or geographical area. For example the system may determine the speed of input a line thickness when drawing the route or geographical area e.g. as measured by input pressure sensors a shape used in delineating the route or geographic and the like as input characteristics. The system may configure a contextual menu or contextual menu options differently based on the determined input characteristics. By way of example the correlation between input characteristics and resulting contextual menu options can be configured by input from service provider learned through data analytics input from a user etc.

In one embodiment the system may further parse the input for delineating a route or geographic for other related information. The input for instance may encode other information such as a directional input or a vector heading input by the user. By way of example instead of or in addition to delineating e.g. drawing a route or geographical area a user may e.g. via the mapping user interface draw or use a flick gesture to indicate a direction with respect to the map display. The system can then calculate or infer e.g. based on preset rules or data an intended route or geographical area associated with the direction. In another example the user may indicate a vector heading e.g. direction plus speed via a similar input as described for the directional input with the addition of for instance correlating a speed of the drawing or executing of the flick gesture with a speed value for the vector. Similarly the system can calculate or infer a delineation of a route or geographical area based on the vector input.

In another embodiment the user can provide a simple or abbreviated input e.g. a tapping input on an area or point in the map user interface . The system can then calculate or infer a delineated route or geographical area associated with the tap based one or more preset rules user preferences user configuration service provider configuration etc. For example the user may specify that in response to a tap on the screen the system should interpret the tap as an input for delineating a geographic defined by a preconfigured radius from the tap location. It is noted that although various embodiments are discussed with a tapping input as an example of a simple or abbreviated it is contemplated that this type of input can take any form and be configured or provided using any input modality.

In one embodiment the system can interpret the input as a literal delineation of the route or geographical area. For example if a line or boundary is traced as a drawing input over the map user interface the actual line or boundary is used to delineate the route or geographical area for generating a contextual menu. In addition or alternatively the system may be configured to correlate or fit the input line or boundary to map features e.g. by snapping drawn lines to roads paths building boundaries etc. . In other words system can transform an input delineation so that it conforms to natural boundaries or features present in the mapping data underlying the map user interface. In yet another embodiment the system can transform the delineation input so to normalize the shapes into reference geometric shapes e.g. squares circles triangles etc. that best approximates the user s actual input. It is contemplated that the system can be configured to apply any form of transformation to user delineation inputs to select a route and or geographical area for generating a contextual menu.

In one embodiment in addition to determining the contextual menu options to present based contextual information associated with a delineated route or geographical area the system can process the contextual information to configure one or more parameters for the menu options or functions. By way of example the proposed or calculated parameters can be presented as default values for the options in the contextual menu that can be confirmed or modified by the user. For example if one contextual menu is for sharing a location the system can process contextual information to determine a closest one of the user s friends and then configure the sharing option with the friend s contact information. It is contemplated that the user configure the system to determine parameters for all contextual menu options for a select set of menu options or for no options at all.

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth near field communication NFC Internet Protocol IP data casting digital radio television broadcasting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset car head unit station unit device mobile communication device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UE applications services content providers contextual menu platform contextual menu manager communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the applications and the services and the contextual menu manager and the contextual menu platform can interact according to a client server model. It is noted that the client server model of computer process interaction is widely known and used. According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process can also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others.

In one embodiment the contextual menu data records can be used to associate a particular contextual menu option with a given map feature at any specified level of granularity. For example for map features defined at a neighborhood level contextual menu options relevant to an entire neighborhood may be stored in the contextual menu data records . As noted it is contemplated that map features and associated contextual menu options can be defined at any scale from an individual building or smaller features to cities countries continents etc. In addition although the contextual menu data records are described as part of the geographic database it is contemplated that the contextual menu data records may be stored in another database or component of the system e.g. in the contextual menu platform and or the contextual menu manager .

In one embodiment the other data records include cartographic carto data records routing data and maneuver data. One or more portions components areas layers features text and or symbols of the POI or event data can be stored in linked to and or associated with one or more of these data records. For example one or more portions of the POI event data or recorded route information can be matched with respective map or geographic records via position or GPS data associations such as using known or future map matching or geo coding techniques for example.

In exemplary embodiments the road segment data records are links or segments representing roads streets or paths as can be used in the calculated route or recorded route information for determination of one or more personalized routes according to exemplary embodiments. The node data records are end points corresponding to the respective links or segments of the road segment data records . The road link data records and the node data records represent a road network such as used by vehicles cars and or other entities. Alternatively the geographic database can contain path segment and node data records or other data that represent pedestrian paths or areas in addition to or instead of the vehicle road record data for example.

The road link segments and nodes can be associated with attributes such as geographic coordinates street names address ranges speed limits turn restrictions at intersections and other navigation related attributes as well as POIs such as gasoline stations hotels restaurants museums stadiums offices automobile dealerships auto repair shops buildings stores parks etc. The geographic database can include data about the POIs and their respective locations in the POI data records . The geographic database can also include data about places such as cities towns or other communities and other geographic features such as bodies of water mountain ranges etc. Such place or feature data can be part of the POI data or can be associated with POIs or POI data records such as a data point used for displaying or representing a position of a city . In addition the geographic database can include event data e.g. traffic incidents constructions scheduled events unscheduled events etc. associated with the POI data records or other records of the geographic database .

The geographic database can be maintained by the content provider e.g. a map developer in association with the services platform . By way of example the map developer can collect geographic data to generate and enhance the geographic database . There can be different ways used by the map developer to collect data. These ways can include obtaining data from other sources such as municipalities or respective geographic authorities. In addition the map developer can employ field personnel to travel by vehicle along roads throughout the geographic region to observe features and or record information about them for example. Also remote sensing such as aerial or satellite photography can be used.

The geographic database can be a master geographic database stored in a format that facilitates updating maintenance and development. For example the master geographic database or data in the master geographic database can be in an Oracle spatial format or other spatial format such as for development or production purposes. The Oracle spatial format or development production database can be compiled into a delivery format such as a geographic data files GDF format. The data in the production and or delivery formats can be compiled or further compiled to form geographic database products or databases which can be used in end user navigation devices or systems.

For example geographic data is compiled such as into a platform specification format PSF format to organize and or configure the data for performing navigation related functions and or services such as route calculation route guidance map display speed calculation distance and travel time functions and other functions by a navigation device such as by a UE for example. The navigation related functions can correspond to vehicle navigation pedestrian navigation or other types of navigation. The compilation to produce the end user databases can be performed by a party or entity separate from the map developer. For example a customer of the map developer such as a navigation device developer or other end user device developer can perform compilation on a received geographic database in a delivery format to produce one or more compiled navigation databases.

As mentioned above the server side geographic database can be a master geographic database but in alternate embodiments the client side geographic database can represent a compiled navigation database that can be used in or with end user devices e.g. UEs to provide navigation and or map related functions. For example the geographic database can be used with the end user device to provide an end user with navigation features. In such a case the geographic database can be downloaded or stored on the end user device UE such as in applications or the end user device UE can access the geographic database and or through a wireless or wired connection such as via a server and or the communication network for example.

In one embodiment the end user device or UE can be an in vehicle navigation system a personal navigation device PND a portable navigation device a cellular telephone a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a watch a camera a computer and or other device that can perform navigation related functions such as digital routing and map display. In one embodiment the navigation device UE can be a cellular telephone. An end user can use the device UE for navigation and map functions such as guidance and map display for example and for determination of one or more personalized routes or route segments based on one or more calculated and recorded routes according to exemplary embodiments.

In one embodiment the control logic executes at least one algorithm for executing one or more functions of the contextual menu platform and or the contextual menu manager . For example the control logic interacts with the delineation input module to determine an input from a user for delineating a route or a geographical area to trigger a generating of a contextual menu. In one embodiment the delineation input module enables the user to provide a free form input means e.g. in any available input modality to delineate e.g. draw trace outline etc. a route or geographical area in a map display or user interface. In one embodiment the delineation input module includes or provides interfaces to input output circuitry sensors devices etc. to receive delineation input data according to one or more input modalities e.g. a drawing input modality a gesture input modality a voice input modality a gaze tracking input modality a text input modality etc. .

By way of example the types of input output circuitry sensors devices etc. supported by the delineation input module is configurable based on the input modalities to be supported by a UE providing the delineation input data. For example if a drawing input modality is to be supported the delineation input module can be configured to support a collection and processing of touch screen input data stylus input data and the like. As another example if voice input data is to be supported the delineation input module can be configured to support a collection and a processing of audio sampling data. Other input modalities can be similarly configured.

In one embodiment the processing functions configured in the delineation input module can include algorithms or other modules for parsing information from the collected raw data e.g. algorithms for recognized drawn lines and or shapes algorithms for correlating detected eye movements to physical locations on a map display for gaze tracking algorithms for converting speech to text to interpret delineation input data provided in spoken form etc. .

In one embodiment the delineation input module collects and processes raw input data to determine or calculate a route or a geographical area that is delineated e.g. drawn or otherwise indicated via an input modality by a user. In one embodiment the delineation input module module also includes algorithms and or logic for determining the characteristics of the delineation input data. In another embodiment the delineation input module includes algorithms and or logic for inferring a delineated route or geographic from a simple or abbreviated input normalizing delineation inputs to reference shapes correlating delineation input data to map features and or other processing steps associated with collecting and or processing delineation input data. In yet another embodiment the delineation input module also selects the map objects or features within or proximate to the delineated area or route. Accordingly the selected map objects or features comprise at least a portion of the input used for determining relevant contextual information and or generating the contextual menu. In one embodiment the delineation input module can be configured with one or more parameters criteria threshold values etc. for classifying whether map objects or features are within or proximate to the delineated area or route.

In one embodiment the delineation input module then passes the delineated route or geographical area to the contextual information module for further processing. In one embodiment the contextual information module can construct a location based query using the delineated route and or geographical area to retrieve or otherwise determine potentially relevant contextual information. By way of example the contextual information module can retrieve contextual information from the UE the applications the services the content providers and or any other source of contextual information available via the system including the geographic databases and . In addition the contextual information can be related to the device itself the input data the input modality a user of the device an application providing the map display the service the content provider and or any other entity process device component input data etc. associated with or related to the generating of the contextual menu and or determination of the contextual menu options.

For example in one embodiment the contextual information module may determine a context of a device or application providing a map display based on user input or user activity at the device or the application . In one embodiment the contextual information module may query the application to determine an activity state or current functions executing at a device e.g. whether navigation is active whether a search has been conducted a mode of travel currently associated with the device e.g. driving walking biking etc. a speed the device is travelling and the like .

The contextual information module then interacts with for instance the menu option determination module to select potentially relevant functions and or menu options to present in a contextual menu of a map display. In one embodiment the contextual information determined by the contextual information module is used to determine specific contexts associated with a given UE and or application . The menu option determination module can then for instance query for menu options associated with the determined contexts to generate the contextual menu. In one embodiment the associations between contexts and contextual menu options can be defined by a service provider or a user. In addition or alternatively the associations between contexts and contextual menus options can be modeled or determined through machine learning techniques. It is contemplated that the menu option determination module can employ any means for associating or selecting menu options with contextual information or contexts associated with a delineated route or geographical area.

In one embodiment the menu option determination module can also query the services and or content providers using for instance the application service interface . By way of example the application service interface can be an application programming interface API a function library etc. to support access to and or integration with one or more relevant functions of the services and or content providers . By way of example potentially relevant functions or menu options include but are not limited to performing a search exploring a route area retrieving transit information sharing a location or route collecting a route or geographical area publishing a route or geographical area initiating routing navigation based on a route or geographical area viewing social graphs based on a route or geographical area initiating a meeting based on a route or geographical area initiating an application or service based on a route or geographical area etc.

In one embodiment the menu option determination module can also determine operational parameters for the menu options or functions selected for generating a contextual menu. For example for a search option the menu option determination module can recommend search terms based on delineated route or geographical area. Depending on the specific menu option the menu option determination module can recommend different types of parameters. As previously discussed the parameters can be provided as default values for editing by the user. In one embodiment the user can also configure whether the menu option determination module provides recommended or default parameters for the menu options or functions.

After determining the menu options for generating a contextual menu based on a delineated route or geographical area the menu option determination module interacts with the menu presentation module to present the contextual menu in a map display or user interface. In one embodiment the menu presentation module can determine a location on the screen associated with the delineated input e.g. where the user drew a route or area boundary and present the contextual menu in proximity to the input location. For example if a radial contextual menu is used the menu presentation module can arrange the menu options of the contextual menu in radial fashion around the input location. It is contemplated that the menu presentation module can be configured to the present the contextual menu and its constituent menu options at any location in the map user interface using any arrangement.

In step the contextual menu platform determines an input for a delineation at least one route at least one geographical area or a combination thereof in at least one map user interface of at least one device. In one embodiment the delineation of the route and or geographical area includes tracing or otherwise indicating an outline to specify the route and or the geographical area. For example a user can provide a delineation input tracing or indicating an outline of a desired route or geographical area for generating a contextual menu. In one embodiment the input also includes the map objects or features within or proximate to the delineated area or route.

In one embodiment the delineation of the at least one route the at least one geographical area or a combination thereof is provided using at least one input modality and wherein the at least one input modality includes at least in part a drawing input modality a gesture input modality a voice input modality a gaze tracking input modality a text input modality or a combination thereof. In other words the user can employ any modality supported by a UE for tracing or otherwise indicating an outline of a route or a geographical area.

One example of delineating includes drawing a route or an outline boundary of a desired area. With respect to other modalities a voice input to trace or indicate an outline can be provided by spoken word e.g. trace a route from point A to point B via highway C delineate a geographical area originating from point A with a circular radius of 100 yards etc. . A gaze tracking input may specify a tracing by following a user s point of focus across a map user interface or display using gaze tracking sensors or cameras.

In step the contextual menu platform determines contextual information associated with the at least one route the at least one geographical area the at least one map user interface the at least one device at least one user associated with the at least one device or a combination thereof. As previously described the contextual menu platform can gather contextual information by querying contextual databases e.g. the geographic databases and . In addition the contextual menu platform can request contextual information from a user device applications services content providers etc.

In one embodiment the input further specifies at least a portion of the contextual information. For example as the user provides input for delineating a route or geographical area the user may also specify contextual information that can be used to further refine or determine the contextual menu options that are potentially relevant. In one embodiment the contextual information may be set by selecting from available contextual options. In some embodiments contextual information can be indicated or coded as different features of the tracing or outlining used for delineation e.g. different types of lines dashed vs. solid lines used for delineating a route or geographical area selecting different colors or line widths for tracing a route or geographical area etc. .

In step the contextual menu platform determines one or more contextual menu options based at least in part on the contextual information. As previously described in one embodiment the contextual menu platform can process the contextual information to infer or determine a context associated with the delineated route or geographical area. The contextual menu platform can then query for menu options that are associated with the determined context. Examples of different contexts are discussed below with respect to .

In step the contextual menu platform causes at least in part a presentation at least one contextual menu of the one or more contextual menu options in the at least one map user interface. In one embodiment the contextual menu platform optionally processes and or facilitates a processing of the contextual information to determine one or more default parameter values for the one or more contextual menu options. The contextual menu platform can then cause at least in part a presentation of the one or more default parameters values in the at least one contextual menu.

The process optional function steps that can be performed in combination with one or more steps of the process of . Although the steps of the process are provided in sequence it is contemplated that each step can be performed alone or in combination with any of the steps of processes and .

Step assumes that an input has been received or otherwise determined delineating a route or geographical area for generating a contextual menu e.g. as described with respect to step of . In step the contextual menu platform processes and or facilitates a processing of the input to determine at least one input characteristic associated with the at least one input modality used for the delineation the at least one route the at least one geographical area or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the at least one input characteristic includes at least in part an input speed an input shape or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the contextual information the one or more contextual menu options or a combination thereof are further based at least in part on the at least one input characteristic. More specifically it is contemplated that the characteristics for instance may be used to infer different associated contexts or to provide additional contextual information for selecting potentially relevant contextual menu options.

In step the contextual menu platform determines that the input specifies at least one direction at least one vector heading or a combination thereof. In some cases a user may additionally or alternatively provide an input for specifying a direction or vector for use in generating a contextual menu. For example a user can flick e.g. by performing a press and hold gesture followed by a flick gesture in a desired direction or draw in a certain direction to select a route or a geographic location in that general direction or vector heading without having to necessarily fully delineate the route or area. In one embodiment the contextual information the one or more contextual menu options or a combination thereof are further based at least in part on the at least one direction the at least one vector heading or a combination thereof.

In step the input is at least one tap input or other type of simplified or abbreviated input. Similar to the directional or vector based input of step a tap input enables the user to quickly delineate a route or area without have to fully trace a corresponding outline. In one embodiment the contextual menu platform can use different characteristics of the tap to make different delineation selections. For example a light tap might delineate an area with a smaller radius surrounding the tap point while a heavier or firmer tap might delineate a larger radius. In other embodiments the contextual menu platform can use contextual information about a user s preferences profile intended travel plans etc. to recommend or infer a route or area to delineate based on the tap. Accordingly the contextual menu platform processes and or facilitates a processing of the at least one tap input to initiate a determination a recommendation or a combination thereof of the at least one route the at least one geographical area or a combination thereof.

In step the contextual menu platform causes at least in part a correlation of the input to one or more map features in the at least one map user interface. The contextual menu platform then determines the at least one route the at least one geographical area or a combination thereof based at least in part on the correlation. For example the contextual menu platform enables the user to loosely delineate a route or geographical area that can then be automatically redrawn by the contextual menu platform so that the delineate route or geographical aligns with map features e.g. roads paths buildings points of interest natural boundaries terrain etc. .

In step the contextual menu platform determines at least one input location in the at least one map user interface at which the input is provided. In one embodiment the contextual menu platform can use the point in the map user interface where the user has specified a delineated route or geographical area as a location for initiating presentation of the contextual menu.

Accordingly in step the contextual menu platform determines at least one display location for the at least one contextual menu the one or more contextual menu options or a combination thereof based at least in part on the at least one input location. It is contemplated that the platform may use an input location as a reference point for positioning the contextual menu and or the contextual menu options in the map user interface. For example the input location can be used directly as a display location. In other examples the contextual menu platform can apply an offset to the input location and present the contextual menu at an offset location. In some embodiments the platform can dynamically determine an arrangement of the contextual menu options e.g. circular arrangement linear arrangement arrangement in another shape etc. based on the input location and or available display area at that input location.

On delineating the area the contextual menu platform identifies the area e.g. a venue or neighborhood or instance by querying the geographic database or for contextual information e.g. demographics points of interests features etc. about the area to generate a contextual menu for presentation in map user interface . For example the delineated area or route may specify a venue or a neighborhood and the contextual menu will include menu options that are most relevant to the delineated area .

In one embodiment the contextual menu platform determines the menu options based on contextual information about the delineated area or route . As previously described the contextual menu platform can query or determine contextual information about the delineated area . The contextual menu platform can process the contextual information e.g. using rules modeling preconfigured associations etc. to select which menu options to present. In this way the contextual menu platform can surface only those options that are most likely to be relevant for a particular delineated area or route thereby customizing the specific set of menu options on an area by area or route by route basis as delineated by a user. For example if a query determines a number of a user s social networking contacts are presently located within or proximately to the delineated area or route the contextual menu platform can be configured to select and present a social networking sharing option that may not otherwise be shown if the delineated area did not include any of the user s social networking contacts. As another example if the delineated area or route currently is experiencing weather conditions that might give rise to a weather alert the contextual menu platform can present a weather application as one of the menu options that would otherwise not be presented if the delineated area or route were not associated with such weather conditions.

In this example the contextual menu platform determines contextual information to indicate that the delineated area potentially is highly frequented by people in general and friends of the user in particular. Additionally the delineated area includes many potential points of interest that may be of particular interest to the user based on the user profile and preferences. Accordingly the contextual menu platform generates the contextual menu to present options weighted towards social media and discovery services. Accordingly the menu options presented in the contextual menu include an edit shape option an itinerary option for navigating area a share option for informing friends of the area a third party share option for creating meet ups a social graph option for viewing friends in the area a guide option for exploring the area and a discover option for learning about the features or points of interest in the area.

In one embodiment the discover option or another option menu not shown in the can in addition or alternatively present applications relevant to the delineated area or route . For example the contextual menu platform can query for the most popular applications that are used on devices within the delineated area or route. It is contemplated that the contextual menu platform can use any algorithm or process e.g. longest used applications applications most recommended by other users applications recommended by owners of points of interest in the delineated area or route etc. to determine what applications to present that are contextually relevant to the delineated area or route. As shown in in one embodiment the contextual menu platform can also include additional relevant information e.g. distance to area weather in the area etc. for display to the user.

In map user interface the user performs a hold a select action to invoke a draw mode option . As shown in map user interface the draw mode option enables the user to begin drawing in the map user interface to delineate a geographical area. In map user interface of the user performs a drawing motion which results in a delineation of area in map user interface . As described with respect to above the delineation of area triggers a generation and presentation of a contextual menu of map user interface that includes menu options that are determined based on the contextual information associated with the area .

In one embodiment the user triggers a contextual menu by for instance providing a tapping input on the location . As previously discussed the tapping input can be used to either indicate a point location or can be used to automatically delineate a route or geographical area e.g. a radius around the tap point . In this example the tap automatically delineates a preconfigured area around the user s static location .

Based on this delineated area the contextual menu platform displays a map user interface which presents a contextual menu generated to include menu options that are most relevant to the user s static context. For example menu option is for discovering nearby features menu option is for obtaining directions from the location menu option is for sharing the location menu option is for third party sharing meet up menu option is for finding friends nearby menu is collecting or saving the location in a personal list and an option for optimizing the presented map view based on the user s current context. In one embodiment the map user interface also includes a display element that reflects the user s current context by indicating the address associated with the user s current location .

Based on this delineated area the contextual menu platform displays a map user interface which presents a contextual menu generated to include menu options that are most relevant to the user s dynamic context. For example menu option is for discovering nearby features menu option is for setting or predicting a destination based on the user s movement e.g. compare with menu option of menu option is for sharing the location menu option is for third party sharing meet up menu option is for finding friends nearby menu is collecting or saving the location in a personal list and an option for optimizing the presented map view based on the user s current context. In one embodiment the map user interface also includes a display element that reflects the user s current context by indicating the address associated with the user s current location updated as the user moves as well as the user s motion signature to indicate the user s motion context e.g. walking running riding a bike taking a bus driving a car etc. .

Based on this delineated route the contextual menu platform displays a map user interface which presents a contextual menu generated to include menu options that are most relevant to the user s dynamic context with a set route and destination . For example menu option is for discovering en route features menu option is for modifying the destination menu option is for sharing the location route destination and or ETA information menu option is for third party sharing meet up menu option is for finding friends en route or at the destination menu is collecting or saving the location the route and or the destination in a personal list and an option for presenting a mobility graph and or for suggesting a guidance method based on speed and usage. In one embodiment the map user interface also includes a display element that reflects the user s current context by indicating the address associated with the user s current location updated as the user moves the user s motion signature to indicate the user s motion context e.g. walking running riding a bike taking a bus driving a car etc. weather en route weather at destination etc.

In this example the user triggers a contextual menu by for instance providing a tapping input on the place . As previously discussed the tapping input can be used to either indicate a point location or can be used to automatically delineate a route or geographical area e.g. a radius around the tap point . In this case the tap automatically delineates a preconfigured area around the place .

Based on the geographical area around the lace delineated by the tapping input the contextual menu platform displays a map user interface which presents a contextual menu generated to include menu options that are most relevant to the delineated area around the place . For example menu option is for discovering nearby features menu option is for obtaining directions to the place menu option is for sharing the place menu option is for third party sharing meet up menu option is for finding friends at near or going to the place menu is collecting or saving the place in a personal list and an option for suggesting a guidance method to the place . In one embodiment the map user interface also includes a display element that reflects the place s and or the user s current context by indicating the address associated with the place additional relevant information e.g. current address of the user distance to the place weather at the place etc. and or the like.

The processes described herein for providing a contextual menu in a map display may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to providing a contextual menu in a map display. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for providing a contextual menu in a map display. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for providing a contextual menu in a map display is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for providing a contextual menu in a map display to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to provide a contextual menu in a map display. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of providing a contextual menu in a map display. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to provide a contextual menu in a map display. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

