---

title: Warped presentation of events in calendar views
abstract: Disclosed herein are systems, methods, and software for providing warped event presentations in calendars. A calendar is set to an active time zone and a period of time is identified within which to display a warped presentation of events scheduled to occur outside of the active time zone. For at least an event scheduled to occur outside of the active time zone at a time in a different time zone that falls within the period of time, the event is presented in the calendar as if the event were scheduled for that time, but in the active time zone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09438649&OS=09438649&RS=09438649
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09438649
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140320
---
Aspects of the disclosure are related to computing hardware and software technology and in particular to the presentation of events in calendars.

Calendaring software provides users with electronic versions of their calendars from which events may be scheduled appointments reviewed and the like. Calendaring software may be implemented as stand alone applications as features of application packages that offer additional functionality within the context of browser applications as streamed or hosted services as a combination thereof or in any other manner. Examples include but are not limited to Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Exchange and Google Calendar 

Most calendaring solutions accommodate scheduling in multiple time zones. In a typical example a meeting organizer may invite others to an event who reside in other time zones. When the other users view the event via their calendaring software the meeting will be presented in accordance with their active time zones or the time zone to which their calendaring software is set. In this manner the other users may organize their schedules based on their active time zone which usually is the time zone in which they reside.

Such mechanisms may help keep one s calendar organized to a certain extent but other challenges remain such as how to clearly present events in other time zones that a user is scheduled to attend in person. For example a user may plan a trip to a location in a different time zone during which various events are scheduled. When viewing the trip within the context of their active time zone the time for the events will be translated to their corresponding time in the active time zone. A meeting scheduled for 9 00 AM in one time zone for instance may be presented in a user s calendar as occurring at 11 00 AM.

Various tools have been developed to alleviate such inconveniences. One tool allows a user to dynamically toggle between time zones with ease. The user may be viewing their calendar in the context of their active time zone one instant and then switch to a view of their calendar in the time zone of their destination.

Another tool presents a dual view of a calendar in which a user s schedule is presented in multiple time zones. One view may present a user s schedule in his active time zone while another view may present the user s schedule in another time zone such as a destination time zone of interest.

Provided herein are systems methods and software for warping the presentation of events in calendars such that events may be viewed as they will be experienced thereby enhancing the ability to schedule events in other time zones.

In at least one implementation a calendar is set to an active time zone and a period of time is identified within which to display a warped presentation of events scheduled to occur outside of the active time zone. For at least an event scheduled to occur outside of the active time zone at a time in a different time zone that falls within the period of time the event is presented in the calendar as if the event were scheduled for that time but in the active time zone. For example a non warped event may be scheduled to occur on a day and at a time in the active time zone while a warping event may be scheduled to occur on a different day and at that time but in a different time zone. The non warped event may be rendered to correspond to a representation of the time in a range of times. The warping event may also be rendered to correspond to the same representation of the time.

This Overview is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Technical Disclosure. It may be understood that this Overview is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Implementations disclosed herein enable the presentation of events in a calendar to be warped such that the events appear as they will be experienced in a different time zone other than the active time zone in which they are being viewed. In this manner a user may review and schedule events with greater ease.

In at least one implementation a period of time is identified within which to display a warped presentation of events scheduled to occur outside of an active time zone for a calendar. The period of time may be associated with travel outside of the active time zone such as when a user plans a trip to a destination in a time zone removed from their local time zone. While the period of time may be defined by the start and end times of such travel the period of time may also correspond to a meeting conference or other situation occurring outside of a user s active time zone. Other examples of the period of time are possible and may be considered within the scope of the present disclosure.

For at least an event that is scheduled to occur at a time in a different time zone and thus outside of the active time zone that falls within the period of time the event is presented in a calendar as if the event was scheduled for that time but in the active time zone. As user may thus be able to view events in her calendar as they will be experienced.

In some scenarios a non warped event may be scheduled to occur on a day and at a time in the active time zone while a warping event may be scheduled to occur on a different day and at that time but in a different time zone. The non warped event may be rendered to correspond to a representation of the time in a range of times. The warping event may also be rendered to correspond to the same representation of the time.

In a brief example an event may be scheduled to occur at 9 00 AM in a time zone other than a user s active time zone or the time zone to which a calendar is set. Without warping the event would be presented in the calendar such that it corresponds to a time offset from 9 00 AM to some degree depending upon how many hours apart the time zone of the event is relative to the active time zone. With warping the event is presented in the calendar such that it corresponds to 9 00 AM with no offset at all so that the user may view a period of time within which the event falls as it will be experienced. In a case where another event is scheduled for 9 00 AM in the active time zone either on the same day or a different day relative to the warped event the presentation of the two events will appear as if they are to occur at the same time even though they will actually occur at different times.

In some implementations the period of time is identified by identifying a warping event and then identifying a start time and an end time for the warping event. Examples of warping events include travel trips meetings conferences and other types of situations that may involve users attending events outside of their active time zone.

A warp option may be presented in some scenarios when travel is being scheduled. The warp option may be selectable to either enable or disable the warped presentation of events scheduled to occur outside of the active time zone. The warp option may also be presented when a meeting or other more granular event is being scheduled.

In some implementations a calendar includes a warped region associated with the warped presentation of the events scheduled to occur outside of the active time zone. The calendar may also include a non warped region associated with a non warped presentation of non warped events scheduled to occur in the active time zone. A visual characteristic may distinguish the presentation of the warped region from the non warped region such as a color coding of the warped region a fill pattern a font style a shading pattern or some other visual characteristic that indicates that a region in a calendar is warped.

Calendar warping may be employed with respect to weekly grids defined by days and a single range of time associated with an active time zone. In such situations each individual representation of time in a single range of times may apply across the multiple days in the weekly grid. Other implementations may involve monthly grids in which each segment in the grid is representative of a day in a month. Warped events may be presented in association with a time for the events given in terms of a time zone in which the events will be experienced rather than an active time zone for the calendar. Other views are possible in addition to weekly and monthly views such as daily views partial week views and the like.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates a calendar view to which a warping process illustrated in may be applied. illustrates a computing system suitable for employing such a warping process. illustrate another calendar view in an operational scenario. illustrates an event interface for scheduling events while illustrates a calendar view with a period of time defined in which events may be warped. illustrates another event interface and illustrates another calendar view. illustrates an event interface and a trip interface in an implementation. illustrates another warping process in an implementation.

Turning to calendar view includes a schedulable block representative of blocks of time that may be scheduled. The blocks of time are defined in terms of a range of times and a range of days . While calendar view provides a weekly view of a calendar it may be appreciated that a daily bi weekly or monthly view are also possible as well as any other calendar format.

In calendar view a period of time has been identified within which the presentation of events may be warped. The period of time in this implementation extends from 9 00 AM on Wednesday morning to approximately 10 00 AM on Thursday morning. During that period of time events that are scheduled to occur outside of an active time zone set for calendar view may be warped such that a user views the events as they will be experienced.

As an example calendar view includes event and event . Event is representative of an event that is scheduled outside of the period of time and in particular for 10 00 AM Mountain Standard Time MST on Monday. By way of differentiation event is representative of an event that is scheduled to occur within period of time for 10 00 Pacific Standard Time PST on Wednesday.

However the presentation of event is warped such that it is rendered in calendar view to correspond to a representation of the time 10 00 AM in the range of times that define the blocks of time. The presentation may be considered warped because event is also rendered to correspond to the same representation of the time 10 00 AM even though event and event will not actually occur at the same time on different days. If the presentation of event was to not be warped then event would be presented in the block of time corresponding to 11 00 AM MST on Wednesday.

The period of time that is identified for warped presentation may be distinguished from other portions of calendar view by some visual characteristic which in this case is represented by a different fill pattern relative to other parts of calendar view . Font style or color shading border formats or other characteristics may also be used.

In event is representative of an event that is scheduled to occur at 10 00 AM PST. Event may be for example a meeting that a user associated with calendar view is scheduled to attend in person. Thus the person will be physically present in the associated time zone for a given amount of time. Period of time may therefore be representative of a duration of travel for the user.

However in some scenarios event may be representative of an online meeting conference call or some other event that is not specific to a particular time zone but that coincides with a period of travel by a user. In both cases the end result is the same the presentation of event can be warped in calendar view such that it is presented in association with a time in range of times that represents how it will be experienced during the period of time that the user is outside of the active time zone. Whether the user is going to attend an in person meeting while outside of the active time zone or participate in an online meeting or call while physically outside of the active time zone the upcoming event can be presented in calendar view as it is going to be experienced by the user when he or she is outside of the active time zone.

In operation computing system identifies a time period in which to warp the presentation of events step . This may involve for example identifying the start and end times associated with a trip or other such event that takes a user to a different time zone other than the active time zone to which a calendar is set.

Upon identifying the time period computing system identifies where in a calendar to render a warped event or events step . The position in a calendar where a warped event is rendered will generally correspond to a representation of a time for the warped event in terms of an active time zone for the calendar. In a weekly view of a calendar identifying where to render a warped event may include identifying a position in a grid that corresponds to a warped time for the event. In a daily view of a calendar identifying where to render a warped event may include identifying a position in a list or array that corresponds to a warped time for an event.

Each event is then rendered in a calendar view such that the events are presented as they will be experienced in a given time zone rather than translating or adjusting the time of an event for an active time zone step . In this manner a user viewing a period of time in the future can schedule and review appointments with ease.

Examples of computing system that may employ warping process or warping process in the context of calendar software include but are not limited to smart phones laptop computers tablet computers desktop computers hybrid computers gaming machines virtual machines televisions watches and other wearable devices as well as any variation or combination thereof. Other examples of computing system that may employ warping process or warping process in the context of calendar software include but are not limited to server computers rack servers web servers cloud computing platforms and data center equipment as well as any other type of physical or virtual server machine and any variation or combination thereof

Calendar view is representative of any calendar view that may be rendered by a computing system executing calendar software of which computing system is representative. Calendar view includes blocks of schedulable time of which block is representative. The blocks of time are defined in a grid by a range of times and a range of days . A period of time within which to warp events is presented in calendar view along with a warp option that is selectable to enable warping for the period of time or disable warping for the period of time .

In warping option is selected. As such events in the period of time are warped. As an example two events are scheduled on Monday which falls outside of the period of time identified for warping. Event is a meeting scheduled for 10 00 AM MST while event is a meeting scheduled for 12 00 PM MST. Event is located in the grid such that it corresponds to a representation of its scheduled time in the range of times . Event is also located in the grid such that it corresponds to a representation of its scheduled time in the range of times .

Event is another meeting but it falls within the period of time identified for warping. The period of time extends from 1 00 pm on Tuesday to 3 00 pm on Wednesday. Events scheduled within that period of time may be warped in calendar view . Accordingly event is located in the grid to correspond to a representation of time in the range of times that expresses how event will be experienced in the time zone in which it is scheduled to occur. In this example event is scheduled to occur in the Pacific time zone at 12 00 pm and thus it is positioned to correspond to 12 00 pm in the range of times .

However it may be appreciated that event is scheduled to occur outside of the active time zone for calendar view which is the Mountain time zone. Thus if warping were not employed then event would be rendered to correspond to 1 00 PM in the range of times because the Mountain time zone is one hour head or offset from the Pacific time zone. illustrates such a scenario where warp option is de selected or not selected. Accordingly events are not warped in . Rather event is positioned to correspond to 1 00 PM in the range of times which is the time at which event is scheduled to occur in the context of the Mountain time zone. It may also be appreciated that because warping is disabled there are no periods of time displayed for which warping is enabled. A user could toggle back and forth between the enabled and disabled states by selecting and unselecting warp option .

Because the destination is Seattle which is in the Pacific time zone a computing system implementing warping process or other associated operations would know that a user will be in the Pacific time zone for the duration of the trip. Thus events scheduled within that time period may be rendered in a calendar view as they will be experienced in the Pacific time zone rather than as they will occur in the Mountain time zone or some other active time zone for a calendar.

Accordingly illustrates calendar view includes a period of time that is representative of the period of time that would result from the exemplary trip scheduled in event interface . Calendar view includes blocks in a grid defined by a range of times and days within which the period of time is presented. Period of time is set apart visually from other regions of calendar view by its fill pattern which is representative of how the period of time may be visually distinguished.

Continuing with calendar view as an exemplary view illustrates another event interface that may be used to schedule an event that occurs during period of time . Event interface includes various elements for inputting information about an event such as event type location start time and end time . Event interface also includes an option selectable to indicate whether or not a user will attend the event in person. In this case the event is a meeting taking place in Seattle from 10 00 AM PST to 11 00 AM PST and the user will attend in person.

For example event which is a conference call scheduled to occur at 10 00 MST is rendered in a location in calendar view that corresponds to a representation of 10 00 AM in the range of times . In contrast event is rendered in a different manner in that while it is scheduled to occur at 11 00 AM MST by virtue of being scheduled for 10 00 AM PST it is rendered in calendar view to also correspond to the representation of 10 00 AM in the range of times . In other words even though event and event are scheduled to occur at different times they are rendered in calendar view in the same vertical position and correspond to the same time in the range of times although on different days.

While illustrates a trip scheduled through event interface and while illustrates a meeting scheduled through event interface it may be appreciated that such events may be created in other ways. For example an invite or other data structure may be received into a calendar application or other such software that includes event information that is then used to populate a calendar view. Such invitations are generally well known and need not be discussed at length. It may also be possible to import trip information from other types of services such as online booking services emails delivered to an email application that include trip information or in any other way. In other words a user need not create a trip meeting or other such event in order for it to be considered by calendar software.

It may also be appreciated that the sequence implied by may vary. For instance whereas a trip is scheduled in followed by a meeting in the reverse may also be true. A meeting may be scheduled first and then at a later time a trip or other travel that triggers a warped presentation of events may be scheduled.

For each event that is identified the event is analyzed to determine whether or not it qualifies for warping step . A period of time may already have been identified within which to warp events. Thus determining whether or not a particular event qualifies includes evaluating if the event falls within the period of time. If not then a non warped time for the event is identified step which may include ascertaining a time scheduled for the event and then translating the time to a time in the active time zone associated with a calendar view. For instance the event may be stored with its time given in Coordinated Universal Time UTC in which case the time would be translated to MST or some other active time zone.

If the event does qualify for warping then a warped time is identified for the event step . The time may be stored in some time zone or other time format such as UTS or GMT in which case the time the event will occur in its scheduled time zone is determined. For example if the event is scheduled to occur in the Pacific time zone then the time at which it will occur in terms of the Pacific Standard Time is determined. That time the time at which the event will experienced when it occurs is the warped time at least from the perspective of an active time zone e.g. MST that differs from scheduled time zone.

Next a location in a calendar grid is identified based on either the warped time or non warped time that is determined step . This may include for example identifying a vertical location in a weekly grid that corresponds to a time in a time range for the event. In a weekly grid a horizontal location in the grid may correspond to the day that the event is scheduled for. Once the location in a grid is identified the event may be rendered in the grid step .

Referring back to computing system may be implemented as a single apparatus system or device or may be implemented in a distributed manner as multiple apparatuses systems or devices. Computing system includes but is not limited to processing system storage system calendar software communication interface system and user interface system . Processing system is operatively coupled with storage system communication interface system and user interface system .

Processing system loads and executes calendar software from storage system . When executed by processing system to implement enhanced event presentation calendar software directs processing system to operate as described herein for the various processes operational scenarios and sequences discussed in the foregoing implementations of calendar views. Computing system may optionally include additional devices features or functionality not discussed for purposes of brevity.

Referring still to processing system may comprise a microprocessor and other circuitry that retrieves and executes calendar software from storage system . Processing system may be implemented within a single processing device but may also be distributed across multiple processing devices or sub systems that cooperate in executing program instructions. Examples of processing system include general purpose central processing units application specific processors and logic devices as well as any other type of processing device combinations or variations thereof

Storage system may comprise any computer readable storage media readable by processing system and capable of storing calendar software . Storage system may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Examples of storage media include random access memory read only memory magnetic disks optical disks flash memory virtual memory and non virtual memory magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other suitable storage media. In no case is the computer readable storage media a propagated signal.

In addition to computer readable storage media in some implementations storage system may also include computer readable communication media over which calendar software may be communicated internally or externally. Storage system may be implemented as a single storage device but may also be implemented across multiple storage devices or sub systems co located or distributed relative to each other. Storage system may comprise additional elements such as a controller capable of communicating with processing system or possibly other systems.

Calendar software may be implemented in program instructions and among other functions may when executed by processing system direct processing system to operate as described with respect to the various operational scenarios sequences and processes illustrated herein. In particular the program instructions may include various components or modules that cooperate or otherwise interact to carry out the various processes and operational scenarios described herein. The various components or modules may be embodied in compiled or interpreted instructions or in some other variation or combination of instructions. The various components or modules may be executed in a synchronous or asynchronous manner serially or in parallel in a single threaded environment or multi threaded or in accordance with any other suitable execution paradigm variation or combination thereof. Other software processes programs or components in addition to calendar software may be stored in storage system and executed by processing system such as operating system software or other application software. Calendar software may also comprise firmware or some other form of machine readable processing instructions executable by processing system .

In general calendar software may when loaded into processing system and executed transform a suitable apparatus system or device of which computing system is representative overall from a general purpose computing system into a special purpose computing system customized to facilitate enhanced event presentation as described herein for each implementation. Indeed encoding calendar software on storage system may transform the physical structure of storage system . The specific transformation of the physical structure may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the storage media of storage system and whether the computer storage media are characterized as primary or secondary storage as well as other factors.

For example if the computer readable storage media are implemented as semiconductor based memory calendar software may transform the physical state of the semiconductor memory when the program instructions are encoded therein such as by transforming the state of transistors capacitors or other discrete circuit elements constituting the semiconductor memory. A similar transformation may occur with respect to magnetic or optical media. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate the present discussion.

Referring again to as an example through the operation of a computing system or systems of which computing system is representative transformations may be performed with respect to calendar view . As an example an event may be scheduled in a time zone other than an active time zone. When a user navigates within calendar view and encounters a period of time within which events are warped the event is rendered at a time that reflects how it will be experienced rather than a time that reflects its actual scheduled time thereby changing the state of calendar view . Referring to and a transformation may occur by toggling back and forth between a warp enabled state and a non warped state.

It may be understood that computing system is generally intended to represent a computing system or systems on which calendar software may be deployed and executed in order to implement enhanced event presentation. However computing system may also be suitable as any computing system on which calendar software may be staged and from where one or both may be distributed transported downloaded or otherwise provided to yet another computing system for deployment and execution or yet additional distribution.

Communication interface system may include communication connections and devices that allow for communication with other computing systems not shown over a communication network or networks. Examples of connections and devices that together allow for inter system communication may include network interface cards antennas power amplifiers RF circuitry transceivers and other communication circuitry. The connections and devices may communicate over communication media to exchange communications with other computing systems or networks of systems such as metal glass air or any other suitable communication media. The aforementioned media connections and devices are well known and need not be discussed at length here.

User interface system is optional and may include a keyboard a mouse a voice input device a touch input device for receiving a touch gesture from a user a motion input device for detecting non touch gestures and other motions by a user and other comparable input devices and associated processing elements capable of receiving user input from a user. Output devices such as a display speakers haptic devices and other types of output devices may also be included in user interface system . In some cases the input and output devices may be combined in a single device such as a display capable of displaying images and receiving touch gestures. The aforementioned user input and output devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

User interface system may also include associated user interface software executable by processing system in support of the various user input and output devices discussed above. Separately or in conjunction with each other and other hardware and software elements the user interface software and user interface devices may support a graphical user interface a natural user interface or any other type of user interface. For example calendar view calendar view and calendar view may be presented through user interface system . In addition user input made with respect to the user interfaces can be input via user interface system .

Communication between computing system and any other computing system occurs over a communication network or networks and in accordance with various communication protocols combinations of protocols or variations thereof. Examples include intranets internets the Internet local area networks wide area networks wireless networks wired networks virtual networks software defined networks data center buses computing backplanes or any other type of network combination of network or variation thereof. The aforementioned communication networks and protocols are well known and need not be discussed at length here. However some communication protocols that may be used include but are not limited to the Internet protocol IP IPv4 IPv6 etc. the transfer control protocol TCP and the user datagram protocol UDP as well as any other suitable communication protocol variation or combination thereof

In any of the aforementioned examples in which information is exchanged the exchange of information may occur in accordance with any of a variety of protocols including FTP file transfer protocol HTTP hypertext transfer protocol REST representational state transfer WebSocket DOM Document Object Model HTML hypertext markup language CSS cascading style sheets HTMLS XML extensible markup language JavaScript JSON JavaScript Object Notation and AJAX Asynchronous JavaScript and XML as well as any other suitable protocol variation or combination thereof.

The functional block diagrams operational scenarios and sequences and flow diagrams provided in the Figures are representative of exemplary systems environments and methodologies for performing novel aspects of the disclosure. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation methods included herein may be in the form of a functional diagram operational scenario or sequence or flow diagram and may be described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methods are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance therewith occur in a different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a method could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all acts illustrated in a methodology may be required for a novel implementation.

The descriptions and figures included herein depict specific implementations to teach those skilled in the art how to make and use the best option. For the purpose of teaching inventive principles some conventional aspects have been simplified or omitted. Those skilled in the art will appreciate variations from these implementations that fall within the scope of the invention. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that the features described above can be combined in various ways to form multiple implementations. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific implementations described above but only by the claims and their equivalents.

