---

title: Bi-pod cantilever mount for laser metrology apparatus and method
abstract: A Bi-Pod cantilever mount and method for supporting laser metrology equipment on a surface. The cantilever mount includes an adjustable mast and legs for adjustably positioning the laser metrology equipment on one or more surfaces. The adjustability of the mount optimizes the ability to utilize the laser metrology equipment at locations where it has been traditionally difficult to take readings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09541232&OS=09541232&RS=09541232
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09541232
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141217
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a mounting device more particularly a Bi Pod cantilever mount for supporting laser metrology equipment on one or more surfaces. The description also relates to a method of taking laser metrology readings using the mounting device.

When at sea ships may be damaged as a result of various reasons including collision with another vessel grounding or even weapon strike. Laser metrology equipment is a very important means for obtaining data related to the damage to facilitate damage control. There are no known mounts for accommodating the mounting of laser metrology equipment over the side of a waterborne ship to capture accurate data for damage control incidents. For an afloat ship because of the lack of a versatile mounting arrangement it is not possible to set up data capturing equipment pier side or on an adjacent ship and properly obtain valid and accurate data from a target ship. Thus it is desired to have a mounting apparatus that has the capability of holding the laser metrology equipment and also the flexibly to position the laser metrology equipment to facilitate data collection when the hull is damaged.

In one aspect the invention is a cantilever mount for supporting laser metrology equipment on one or more surfaces. The cantilever mount includes a hip support having a first leg opening and a second leg opening. In this aspect the invention also includes an adjustable mast being elongated in an XY plane of an XYZ coordinate system with the adjustable mast having a far end. The cantilever mount also includes an attachment device for holding and attaching the laser metrology equipment. The attachment device is connected to the far end of the mast. The cantilever mount further includes a first leg having an anchor end and a hip end. The first leg is elongated in the XY plane with the hip end positioned within the first leg opening. In this aspect the invention also include a second leg having an anchor end and a hip end with the second leg elongated in the XY plane and with the hip end positioned within the second leg opening. In this aspect a first anchor is mounted at the anchor end of the first leg with the first anchor being positioned below the first leg in a Z direction of the XYZ coordinate system. A second anchor is mounted at the anchor end of the second leg with the second anchor below the second leg in the Z direction of the XYZ coordinate system. A third anchor is mounted at the hip support with the third anchor below the hip support in the Z direction of the XYZ coordinate system. In this aspect each of the first anchor the second anchor and the third anchor contact the one or more surfaces upon which the cantilever mount is supported.

In another aspect the invention is a method of taking laser metrology data readings on a ship. The method includes the providing of a cantilever mount for supporting laser metrology equipment on one or more surfaces. The cantilever mount has a hip support having a first leg opening and a second leg opening. The cantilever mount also includes an adjustable mast being elongated in an XY plane of an XYZ coordinate system with the adjustable mast having a far end. The cantilever mount also has an attachment device for holding and attaching the laser metrology equipment with the attachment device connected to the far end of the mast. The cantilever mount also has a first leg having an anchor end and a hip end the first leg being elongated in the XY plane with the hip end positioned within the first leg opening. Also included is a second leg having an anchor end and a hip end with the second leg elongated in the XY plane with the hip end positioned within the second leg opening. A first anchor is mounted at the anchor end of the first leg. The first anchor is positioned below the first leg in a Z direction of the XYZ coordinate system. A second anchor is mounted at the anchor end of the second leg. The second anchor is positioned below the second leg in the Z direction of the XYZ coordinate system. The cantilever mount also has a third anchor mounted at the hip support with the third anchor below the hip support in the Z direction of the XYZ coordinate system. Each of the first anchor the second anchor and the third anchor contact the one or more surfaces upon which the cantilever mount is supported. In this aspect the method of taking laser metrology data readings further includes the attaching of laser metrology equipment to the cantilever mount wherein the laser metrology equipment is fastened to the attachment device at the far end of the adjustable mast. The method also includes adjustably positioning the cantilever mount on one or more hull surfaces of the ship. The method further includes the taking of data readings with the laser metrology equipment.

As outlined throughout the written description and as illustrated in the cantilever mount is referenced with respect to an XYZ Cartesian coordinate system. The major elements of the cantilever mount such as the mast the hip support and first and second legs all outlined below may be made from a lightweight strong material such as carbon fiber or a metallic material such as aluminum and the like. Composite materials may also be used.

As shown in the cantilever mount includes a hip support which links and houses some of the elements of the mount . is an exemplary top view of the hip support . As shown the hip support includes a first leg opening and a second leg opening for receiving legs as outlined below. The hip support also includes a central bore hole through which a mast is mounted.

Returning to as shown the cantilever mount has a mast . The mast has an elongation axis C that is elongated and extends in an XY plane. The mast extends from the hip support and is threaded through the central bore hole . The mast has a far end having an attachment device for holding and attaching the laser metrology equipment to the mount . The attachment device may include known devices such as tethers hook and loop arrangements hooks clips straps bolts screws and the like to secure the laser metrology equipment to the adjustable mast of the mount .

According to an embodiment of the invention each of the first second and third anchors and are magnetic. The magnets may be powerful rare earth magnets or the like or other known magnets. This allows the cantilever mount to be positioned on one or more ferrous surfaces in any desired orientation. For example the cantilever mount may be attached to one or more ferrous surfaces that are horizontal vertical or inclined.

According to another embodiment the anchors and may be clamps having a hook or an opening not shown through which a securing device such as a screw a bolt or the like may be threaded for attaching the respective anchor or to the one or more surfaces. According to this embodiment the one or more surfaces may include compression panels that are able to receive securing devices such as screws e.g. at any desired location along that surface. This facilitates the flexible positioning of the mount at any position on the one or more surfaces.

In dotted lines shows the mast in an extended position thereby extending the position of the laser metrology equipment to a position . The mast is an erecting retracting structure the adjustable structure facilitated by using known elements such as telescoping tubes hydraulics and the like. The direction of extension is shown by arrow D. By extending the mast as shown the laser metrology equipment may have access to positions that it would not ordinarily have thereby facilitating improved data collection. For example when the cantilever mount and laser metrology equipment combination is used on a ship the mast may be extended as shown to project the laser metrology equipment to overhang off the side of the ship hull. This would be useful in scenarios in there is damage to the side of a waterborne ship and the laser metrology equipment must be mounted over the side of the ship to capture accurate data for damage control. It should be noted that the movement as shown by arrows D is in the XY plane shown in .

The embodiment of also shows additional adjustability features directed towards each of the first second and third anchors and . As shown each of the first and second anchors and are connected to respective legs and via pins and which extend upwards into coupling devices and respectively. The coupling devices and may be ball joints or gimbals that facilitate the multi dimensional rotation allowing the anchors and to rotate and pivot as desired. As shown in the coupling devices and provide anchor rotation as shown by arrows G and H. This rotation shown by arrows G and H represent the rotation of the anchors and about their respective pins and .

The anchors and may also pivot about respective Z direction axes extending out of the page through the respective pins and . It should be understood that because the anchors and are rotatable about their respective pins and when the pins and pivot any rotation about these pins changes the plane in which the anchors and rotate. is representative of the pins and in a vertical Z direction orientation and therefore rotation about these pins is in a substantially horizontal plane. However it should be understood that the planes of rotation may change depending on the pivoting of the pins and .

Similarly the third anchor is connected to the hip via a pin . Coupling device allows rotation and pivoting similar to what has been described regarding the legs and . The coupling device may be a ball joint or a gimbal that facilitates the multi dimensional rotation allowing the hip to pivot and rotate as desired. As shown in the coupling device provides anchor rotation as shown by arrow I which is the rotation about the pin . The anchor may also pivot about a Z direction axis extending out of the page through the pin . As outlined above with respect to the anchors and because the anchor is rotatable about the pins when the pins pivots any rotation about this pin changes the plane in which the anchor rotates.

As stated above the features illustrated in and outlined above provide adjustability that facilitates the collection of laser metrology data in scenarios in which it has traditionally been difficult to accomplish. For example ship decks may have obstructions or interferences and it is not possible to position the laser metrology apparatus on a single flat surface. The adjustability of the legs and as shown in allows the mount to be positioned on different uneven surfaces at different angles in which one leg is adjusted to be longer than the other. As stated above the mast may be extended as shown in to project the laser metrology equipment to overhang off the side of the ship hull. The adjustable features outlined may also be used to extend the laser metrology equipment into an open doorway or hatchway.

Step is the attaching of the laser metrology equipment to the cantilever mount . As outlined above the mast has a far end having an attachment device for holding and attaching the laser metrology equipment to the mount . The attachment device may include known devices such as tethers hook and loop arrangements hooks clips straps bolts screws and the like to secure the laser metrology equipment to the adjustable mast of the mount .

Step is the adjustable positioning of the cantilever mount on one or more hull surfaces of the ship or any other location aboard the ship where laser metrology is needed to capture data. As outlined above and as shown in the mast the first leg second leg the anchors and and the attachment device are all adjustable which facilitates the positioning of the mount and attached metrology equipment in positions that optimize the operation of the laser metrology equipment . shows the mast the first leg and the second leg in two different positions. For example as outlined above the mast may be extended as shown in to project the laser metrology equipment to overhang off the side of the ship hull. shows an embodiment in which the attachment device is rotatable allowing for the mounting of the laser metrology equipment in a plurality of desired orientations. Additionally the anchors and facilitate flexibility in the positioning of the mount but additionally they make it easier to install the mount on deck surfaces or the like.

The cantilever mount as described above is designed to hold the laser metrology equipment and to position the equipment to facilitate data collection in circumstances that have been traditionally difficult for data collection or generally in non standard applications. According to one particular example the flexible adjustable mount is designed for situations in which there is damage to the side of a waterborne ship and the laser metrology equipment must be mounted over the side of the ship to capture accurate data for damage control. The mount may also be used in situations on decks that have obstructions or interferences and it is not possible to position the laser metrology apparatus on a single flat surface. The adjustability of the legs and as shown in allows the mount to be positioned on different uneven surfaces at different angles in which one leg is adjusted to be longer than the other.

In addition to this flexibility as outlined above in embodiments in which the first second and third anchors and are magnetic the cantilever mount may be adjustably positioned on ferrous surfaces that are horizontal vertical or inclined. Alternatively according to this method the anchors and may be clamps having a hook or an opening not shown through which a securing device such as a screw a bolt or the like may be threaded for attaching the respective anchor or to the one or more surfaces. According to this embodiment the one or more surfaces may include compression panels that are able to receive securing devices such as screws e.g. at any desired location along that surface. According to one particular embodiment magnetic anchors and may be interchangeable with clamp anchors.

Step is the taking of readings. In this step the laser metrology equipment is operated in a known manner. It should be noted that improved readings are acquired because of the flexibility in positioning of the equipment as outlined above. The flexibility in positioning of the equipment is due to the structure of the mount including the adjustable elements such as the mast and first and second legs and as well as the rotatable attachment device . Additional flexibility may be provided by embodiments utilizing magnetic anchors and which may also be adjustable for attachment to ferrous surfaces or by using anchors that are clamps as outlined above.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Additionally method steps may be performed in different orders. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

