---

title: Enabling quick display transitions between indoor and outdoor map data
abstract: A map data server may provide metadata about available indoor map data that accompanies map data for drawing a base map. For example, map data may include vector data for drawing a footprint of a building, and the metadata may include information about the physical properties of the building (e.g., an indication of how many floors the building has and if detailed map data is available for the indicated floors, etc.). A mapping application running on the client can use this metadata to display an interface that allows a user to select floors or otherwise interact with the floor data. Further, the metadata accompanying map data can include a bounding box, or a bounding polygon, for one or more floors. The mapping application can use these bounding shapes to properly reposition the viewport as map data for a new floor is being loaded, for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09417777&OS=09417777&RS=09417777
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09417777
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140129
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 844 300 that was filed on Jul. 9 2013 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The present disclosure relates to interactive digital maps and more particularly to providing a widget to allow quick transitions to indoor map data on a client computing device displaying a base map that includes both outdoor and indoor map data.

The background description provided herein is for the purpose of generally presenting the context of the disclosure. Work of the presently named inventors to the extent it is described in this background section as well as aspects of the description that may not otherwise qualify as prior art at the time of filing are neither expressly nor impliedly admitted as prior art against the present disclosure.

A wide variety of computing devices including many portable devices support software applications that display interactive digital maps mapping applications . For example mapping applications may run on laptop and tablet computers mobile phones car navigation systems hand held global positioning system GPS units etc. These mapping applications can display various types of geographic data including topographical data street data urban transit information and traffic data in a two dimensional 2D or three dimensional 3D format.

Although digital maps usually depict outdoor map features such as buildings roads bodies of water etc. indoor mapping is also becoming available. For example a digital map that depicts the footprint of an indoor shopping mall at certain zoom levels can also depict the floor plan of the shopping mall icons for indoor facilities such as restrooms and elevators and text labels for various businesses.

In a typical system indoor map data is stored in a separate database and provided to a client device as a separate layer of data that can be overlaid on a digital map. A mapping application executing on the client device renders a digital map with external features such as roads parks bodies of water building footprints etc. and when the user zooms in on a building footprint generates a separate request possibly to a separate server to retrieve indoor map data. As a result prior to receiving the requested indoor data the mapping application cannot display any information or controls related to the indoor data. For example the mapping application cannot display a widget for selecting a floor of a multi floor building.

The features and advantages described in this summary and the following detailed description are not all inclusive. Many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims hereof. Additionally other embodiments may omit one or more or all of the features and advantages described in this summary.

A map data server may provide metadata about available indoor map data that accompanies map data for drawing a base map. For example map data may include vector data for drawing a footprint of a building and the metadata may include information about the physical properties of the building e.g. an indication of how many floors the building has and if detailed map data is available for the indicated floors etc. . A mapping application running on the client can use this metadata to display an interface that allows a user to select floors or otherwise interact with the floor data. Further the metadata accompanying map data can include a bounding box or a bounding polygon for one or more floors. The mapping application can use these bounding shapes to properly reposition the viewport as map data for a new floor is being loaded for example.

In a first embodiment a computer implemented method in a network server may enable quick transitions to indoor map data from a base map displaying outdoor map data. The method may receive from the client device a request for map data for a specified geographic area and a specified zoom level. The method may then retrieve outdoor map data for the requested geographic area at the zoom level. The outdoor map data may correspond to externally visible physical entities. The method may also determine that the outdoor map data includes a map feature corresponding to a multi floor building and determine a default floor for the multi floor building. The method may further provide the outdoor map data and data defining a widget to the client device in response to the request for map data for the specified geographic area and the specified zoom level. The widget may include one or more of an indication of the default floor an indication of a number of floors for the multi floor building a description of a bounding box for one or more floors of the multi floor building and names for each floor of the multi floor building.

In a second embodiment a mapping system may be configured to enable quick transitions to indoor map data from a base map displaying outdoor map data. The system may comprise a remote mapping server including a processor and a memory the memory including instructions executed. A first instruction may receive from the client device a request for map data for a specified geographic area and a specified zoom level. A second instruction may retrieve outdoor map data for the requested geographic area at the zoom level. The outdoor map data may correspond to externally visible physical entities. A third instruction may determine that the outdoor map data includes a map feature corresponding to a multi floor building and a fourth instruction may determine a default floor for the multi floor building. A fifth instruction may provide the outdoor map data and data defining a widget to the client device in response to the request for map data for the specified geographic area and the specified zoom level. The widget may include one or more of an indication of the default floor an indication of a number of floors for the multi floor building a description of a bounding box for one or more floors of the multi floor building and names for each floor of the multi floor building.

In a third embodiment a tangible computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable instructions stored thereon for enabling quick transitions to indoor map data from a base map displaying outdoor map data. A first instruction may receive from the client device a request for map data for a specified geographic area and a specified zoom level. A second instruction may retrieve outdoor map data for the requested geographic area at the zoom level. The outdoor map data may correspond to externally visible physical entities. A third instruction may determine that the outdoor map data includes a map feature corresponding to a multi floor building and a fourth instruction may determine a default floor for the multi floor building. A fifth instruction may provide the outdoor map data and data defining a widget to the client device in response to the request for map data for the specified geographic area and the specified zoom level. The widget may include one or more of an indication of the default floor an indication of a number of floors for the multi floor building a description of a bounding box for one or more floors of the multi floor building and names for each floor of the multi floor building.

In a fourth embodiment a computer apparatus may enable quick transitions to indoor map data from a base map displaying outdoor map data. The apparatus may include means to receive from the client device a request for map data for a specified geographic area and a specified zoom level. The apparatus may also include means to retrieve outdoor map data for the requested geographic area at the zoom level. The outdoor map data may correspond to externally visible physical entities. The apparatus may also include means to determine that the outdoor map data includes a map feature corresponding to a multi floor building means to determine a default floor for the multi floor building and means to provide the outdoor map data and data defining a widget to the client device in response to the request for map data for the specified geographic area and the specified zoom level. The widget may include one or more of an indication of the default floor an indication of a number of floors for the multi floor building a description of a bounding box for one or more floors of the multi floor building and names for each floor of the multi floor building.

The figures depict embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternate embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

A map data server provides certain information about the available indoor map data as metadata accompanying map data for drawing a base map i.e. the foundational layer of a digital map for a given zoom level . For example map data can include vectors for drawing a footprint of a building and the metadata can include an indication of how many floors the building has and for how many of these floors detailed indoor map data is available. A mapping application running on the client can use this indication to properly display a floor picker e.g. a widget that displays selectable floor numbers for activating a display of the corresponding floor . Further the metadata accompanying map data can include a bounding box or a bounding polygon for one or more floors. The mapping application can use these bounding shapes to properly reposition the viewport as map data for a new floor is being loaded for example. Still further the metadata can include names of floors to appear as floors listed in an elevator of the building for example. More generally the metadata can include information that helps the mapping application make transitions from an external view of a building to the indoor view of the building as well as make transitions between floors more smooth.

As discussed in more detail below metadata in some implementations accompanies particular map features. Thus for example a building can be described as an individual map feature. The description of the map feature can include the external geometry of the building in a vector graphics format textures to be applied to the building geometry text labels etc. Metadata accompanying this map feature can include an overview of the available indoor data discussed above.

Additionally a mapping application of the present disclosure can receive indoor floor data for the default floor of a multi floor building as part of a base map. The map data server in this case can annotate the indoor floor data to allow the mapping application on the client device to easily remove this indoor map data apply a different style to the indoor map data or other actions. For example the base map can include among other map features an external outline of a large indoor shopping mall. The indoor floor data can include outlines of stores labels icons indicating the locations of elevators and restrooms and other indoor features. For each indoor feature the server may specify that the feature is an indoor feature associated with a certain floor.

These techniques are discussed in more detail below with reference to . In particular an example system in which a map data server can provide indoor map information to a client device is illustrated example formats and uses of this information are schematically illustrated in and flow diagrams of example methods for exchanging indoor map information are illustrated in .

Referring first to a system includes a computing device coupled to a map server via a communication network . The computing device can be for example a laptop computer a tablet computer a smartphone etc. In the embodiment illustrated in the computing device includes a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a computer readable memory a network interface and a user interface including a touch interface. In various implementations the touch interface can include a touchpad over which the user moves his or her fingers while looking at a separately provided screen a touchscreen where the user places his or her fingers directly over the image being manipulated or over a displayed control being activated e.g. a displayed keyboard etc. The memory is a computer readable non transitory storage device that may include both persistent e.g. a hard disk and non persistent e.g. RAM memory components and may store instructions executable on the CPU and or the GPU that make up a mapping software module and map data on which the mapping module operates. The mapping software module includes an indoor data management module that allows users to easily inspect internal features of multi story buildings.

The mapping software module according to various implementations operates as a separately executable software application a plugin that extends the functionality of another software application such as a web browser an application programming interface API invokable by a software application etc. The instructions that make up the mapping software module may be compiled and executable on the CPU and or the GPU directly or not compiled and interpreted by the CPU at runtime. Further the indoor data management module may be provided as an integral part of the mapping software module or as a separately installable and downloadable component.

Depending on the implementation the map data may be in a raster format such as Portable Network Graphics PNG a vector graphics format based on mathematical descriptions of geometric shapes or any other suitable format. The map data in some cases is divided into map tiles or portions of a map image having a certain fixed size such as 256 by 256 pixels. In operation the mapping module receives the map data from the map server renders a map image based on the map data and causes the map image to be displayed via the user interface . When the mobile device receives the map data already rasterized the mapping module renders the map image by selecting and combining the proper rasterized tiles. However if the map data is in a vector graphics format the mapping module interprets the descriptions of various shapes to generate the corresponding raster images. The mapping module also adjusts the displayed image and requests new map data when necessary in response to user input received via the user interface . More specifically the user may change the zoom level pan across the map select a different map type e.g. traffic map terrain map and otherwise interact with the map.

In an example scenario the map server receives a request that specifies the geographic area the zoom level and the map type. In response to the received request the map server retrieves outdoor map data and indoor map data from an outdoor map database and an indoor map database respectively. The map server then provides the outdoor map data the indoor map data and appropriate indications of how certain portions of the outdoor map data and the indoor map data are linked to the computing device as part of the map data . In another implementation however indoor and outdoor map data can be stored in a single database and or provided by a common server.

When provided in a vector graphics format outdoor map data may specify or define graphic representations of individual map elements representing such physical entities as roads parks bodies of water external walls of buildings and other natural and artificial objects visible outside e.g. from above or at a street level. In a raster format map elements typically are embedded into the same image. Outdoor map data also may include text based data for displaying various labels such as street names or names of landmarks. In general outdoor map data may be used by a computing device to generate 2D images or 3D images and may include schematic data photographic images or both.

Indoor map data may specify or define internal features of buildings such as the layout of internal walls or dividers names of people businesses and organizations occupying different portions of a building locations of elevators escalators restrooms etc. For multi story buildings the indoor map data may specify internal features on a per floor basis. Similar to outdoor map data indoor map data may include both graphics content and non graphics e.g. text content and the graphics content may include schematic illustrations photographic images interactive and non interactive icons etc.

Certain portions of the outdoor map data may be logically linked to respective portions of indoor map data. In particular certain map elements displayed on a map may be linked to indoor data that typically is not displayed on the map without an additional user request. In other words certain map elements may be associated with additional map data that is not part of the map image typically displayed for the specified geographic region map type and zoom level. Referring to the map data the map server can provide outdoor map data as a collection of separate data structures each containing a vector based description of a map element text based label data and metadata that further contains a unique identifier of another data structure storing the corresponding indoor map data. If the outdoor map data included in the map data is rasterized the unique identifier of a data structure storing indoor map data can be provided for a particular set of coordinates in the raster image. In either case the mapping software module can display the outdoor map data and provide interactive controls for activating the display of relevant indoor map data.

As a more specific example according to one implementation the map server provides as part of outdoor map data external representations of buildings in the form of low detail three dimensional 3D outlines. The mapping software module superimposes these 3D outlines over the two dimensional 2D map. In another implementation the map server provides 3D mesh descriptions of buildings along with photographic imagery for texturing the corresponding 3D meshes. Using this type of map data the mapping software module can generate realistic highly detailed external representations of buildings. In yet another implementation the map server provides merely 2D outlines or footprints of buildings on a 2D map. A user can tap or click on these 2D or 3D external representations of buildings to instruct the mapping software module to display the internal features of the buildings in an expanded format.

With continued reference to the map server may include a processor and a memory that stores a base map layer generator and an indoor map data generator made up of instructions executable on the processor . The computing device and the map server may communicate in a client server mode where the computing device sends requests for map data to the map server and the map server provides map data in response to these requests. More particularly the base map layer generator in operation causes instructions stored in a memory and executed on a processor to receive requests for map data from the computing device identify and retrieve the requisite map data from the outdoor map database and or the indoor map database format response messages that contain the map data and cause the response messages to be transmitted to the computing device via the network . The network may be a wide area network WAN such as the Internet a local area network LAN or any other suitable type of a computer network.

According to the implementations discussed below the base map layer generator includes map data for the default floor in the description of tiles that make a base map. The indoor map data generator generates metadata including an overview of the available indoor map data for some of the map features. Depending on the implementation the map data server can include one or both of the components and .

For simplicity illustrates the map server as only one instance of a server device. However according to some implementations the map server may include a group of one or more map server devices that are each equipped with one or more processors and capable of operating independently of the other map server devices. Map server devices operating in such a group can process requests from the computing device individually e.g. based on availability in a distributed manner where one operation associated with processing a request is performed on one map server device while another operation associated with processing the same request is performed on another map server device or according to any other suitable technique. For the purposes of this discussion the term map server may refer to an individual map server device or to a group of two or more map server devices.

The map tile includes metadata for some of the map features. In the illustrated example metadata accompanies the map feature . The map feature includes a description of geometry e.g. in a vector graphics format and a style identifier . For example the style identifier can store an identifier of a style the definition of which line width fill color outline color etc. is provided elsewhere in the map tile or even in a separate communication unit sent to the client device. The metadata stores a number of floors indicator e.g. 6 25 floor names e.g. ground floor first floor and bounding boxes and for floors N and M respectively. More generally the metadata can include more or less information.

Next schematically illustrates a map tile that includes both outdoor map features and indoor map features which the map data server can transmit to the client device and which the client device can subsequently render. More specifically the map data server can provide the outdoor map features i.e. buildings A B C D E and the indoor map features i.e. stores floors internal building structures or other indoor features A B and C as part of a base map tile. The client device can overlay traffic weather transit and other types of data on the base map tile . It is noted that the technique of can be implemented in a communication system together with the technique of or these two techniques can be implemented independently in respective different embodiments of a communication system.

Each of the indoor map features can be provided in a vector graphics format similar to the outdoor map features . In addition to shapes representing internal hallways wall dividers rooms etc. the map tile can include labels for indoor map features. By contrast labels and identify street level features. More generally the map tile can include various types of data for rendering an indoor digital map.

The map data server can select the indoor map features based on the default configuration of the building with the footprint represented by the map feature A. For example the building represented by the map feature A can be a four story shopping mall with separate sets of map features defined for each floor. The indoor map database see can store an indication that the default floor for this building is the second floor for example. The default floor of a building need not be the ground floor as the ground floor may be occupied by a garage that is relatively uninteresting to users. The map data server can i query the indoor map database to determine that the ground floor is the default floor ii query the indoor map database to retrieve indoor map features specific to the ground floor of the building in this case the indoor map features and the label and iii incorporate the indoor map features and the label into the base map that also includes the outdoor map features .

In another implementation a server which may be the map data server or another server can combine outdoor map data with default floor indoor map data ahead of time for each map tile. In other words map tiles are pre computed to enable the map data server to more quickly provide map tiles to clients upon request.

When the user wishes to view a different floor of the building the mapping module can send the corresponding request for floor data for another floor that is not the default floor to the map data server . The server may then retrieve the indoor map features for the new floor. Depending on the implementation the indoor data management module can overlay the new floor data over the base map or remove and replace the individual map features .

As further illustrated in to enable the client device to selectively operate on the indoor map data indoor map features and labels are provided with indoor map data indicators . The indoor data management module can use the indicator to manage indoor map features separately and render these features in a different style highlight indoor map features without highlighting other map features in response to a user request or an automated event e.g. a search query apply other visual effects etc. The indoor map indicators may also correspond to each floor of a building i.e. per floor or to the building itself i.e. per building so that indoor data for one building may be highlighted or replaced with a different floor independent of indoor data for other nearby buildings.

In short by providing indoor map features for the default floor in a base map tile in the manner discussed above the map data server on the one hand allows the mapping module to immediately display richer content on the client device and on the other hand allows the mapping module to easily turn off the display of indoor map data highlight the indoor map data transition from one floor to another etc.

At block map features that belong to a map tile are identified. This step can be implemented in a batch process if desired. The map features identified at block are outdoor map features representing physical entities visible from a street or otherwise from the outside. The identified map features are included in a description of a map tile at block . To this end the vector graphics format can be used for example.

Next at block an overview of the available indoor map data for one or more features identified at block is generated. The overview can include an indication of the number of floors a description of a bounding box for one or more floors names of the floors etc. At block the overview of the available indoor map data is included in the metadata accompanying map features. The map data and the metadata then are provided to a client device at block .

Next depicts a flow diagram of an example method for providing indoor map data as part of a base map. In some embodiments the method in whole or in part can be stored as tangible computer executable instructions of the base map layer generator within the memory of the map data server and executed by the processor for example. In other embodiments the method in whole or in part can be stored as tangible computer executable instructions of the mapping module within the memory of the client device and executed by the CPU or GPU for example. In still further embodiments the method can be stored as a combination of tangible computer executable instructions within the memory of the map data server and or the client device and respectively executed by the processor the CPU and or the GPU . The method also can be implemented as a set of instructions stored on a computer readable memory and executable on one or more processors.

The method begins at block where outdoor map features indoor map features and metadata for a geographic area are included in a base map for a certain map tile and received and displayed at a client device. At block the method identifies a multi floor building A or other outdoor feature in a geographic region corresponding to the map tile . At block the method uses the received metadata to determine the default floor of the structure A. For example with reference to a base map includes a map tile and building A. The metadata may indicate that the first floor of the building A is the default floor and the method may cause the indication for the default floor to appear in the widget . Next the method may retrieve indoor map data for the default floor from a database block and included in the map tile . Blocks can be executed multiple times if the map tile includes multiple multi floor structures for which indoor map data is available.

The following additional considerations apply to the foregoing discussion. Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter of the present disclosure.

Additionally certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code stored on a machine readable medium or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware and software modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware and or software modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware or software modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware or software modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules or software are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware or software modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware or software modules have access. For example one hardware or software module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware or software module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware and software modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods or routines described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented hardware modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as an SaaS. For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs . 

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm or a routine is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms routines and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the description. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for providing indoor map data to a client device through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

