---

title: Cloud based activity monitor for human powered vehicle
abstract: A device is provided. The device is an electronic device configured to attach to a human-powered vehicle. The electronic device is further configured to perform actions. The actions include producing position coordinates based on global positioning system data and coupling to a network via a wireless connection. The actions include relaying the position coordinates to the network via the wireless connection. In some embodiments the electronic device is integrated with a bicycle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08949022&OS=08949022&RS=08949022
owner: WI-MM Corporation
number: 08949022
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140116
---
Bicycles have long been touted as among the most efficient machines ever devised. Accessories for bicycles generally perform individual functions and are not well integrated with other accessories. For example theft prevention generally relies on mechanical locks which are bulky and clumsy to attach and carry with a bicycle. Electronic speedometers for bicycles don t provide any theft prevention and information from them is not readily downloaded to a user system for personal use. Global positioning system GPS components made for bicycles are easily stolen separately or with the bicycle to which each is attached. Cell phones can be mounted to bicycles but are likewise easily stolen separately or with the bicycle. Fleet managers for rental bicycles rely on manual record keeping and credit card deposits from customers to ensure returns of bicycles. Therefore in light of disparate challenges and the state of bicycle accessories today there is a need in the art for a solution which overcomes the drawbacks described above.

A device is provided. The device is an electronic device configured to attach to a human powered vehicle. The electronic device is further configured to perform actions. The actions include producing position coordinates based on global positioning system data and coupling to a network via a wireless connection. The actions include relaying the position coordinates to the network via the wireless connection. In some embodiments the electronic device is integrated with a bicycle.

Other aspects and advantages of the embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the described embodiments.

Embodiments of a bike GPS global positioning system device mounted to a bicycle or other human powered machine transforming the bike into a cloud connected platform that delivers immediate benefits to cyclists bike manufacturers and managers of bike sharing fleets. Bike performance analytics theft prevention and location tracking are among the services and functions that the bike GPS device provides and supports. Various mountings are possible with one embodiment mounting at the water bottle site on a bicycle frame and one embodiment mounting into the bike frame e.g. inside a frame tube. Versions of the bike GPS device feature various combinations of a processing engine with various functions a GPS receiver and one or more wireless communication units communicating via cellular telephone networks machine to machine protocol Bluetooth Wi Fi wireless fidelity also known as wireless local area network or WLAN and or a bike area network. Embodiments also feature various combinations of sensors including an accelerometer a gyroscope an altimeter a temperature sensor a signal strength sensor an air quality sensor and bike and cyclist performance sensors such as a power meter cadence monitor heart rate monitor speed sensor etc. Some embodiments have a built in display battery management and or an alarm unit. These and further features and operations thereof are discussed below with reference to . It should be appreciated that the bike GPS device may be referred to as a cloud based activity monitor for a bicycle as the device can support numerous functionality besides GPS functionality as described in more detail below.

The GPS receiver is coupled to a GPS antenna which receives GPS data from the GPS satellites . This GPS data is processed by the GPS receiver to produce the position coordinates. The processor which is coupled to the GPS receiver can access the position coordinates and store them in the memory and or further process the position coordinates in order to perform various functions.

In various embodiments the wireless communication unit has one or more antennas one or more receivers and one or more transmitters or one or more transceivers. For example the wireless communication unit could include a receiver a transmitter or a transceiver for coupling to a cellular network a wireless local area network WLAN such as Wi Fi a Bluetooth network and or a bike area network. In one embodiment the wireless communication unit communicates i.e. transmits and or receives via a cellular telephonic network using a machine to machine protocol which is generally less expensive than consumer voice and data plans. In one embodiment the wireless communication unit can switch between communicating via a cellular network and communicating via a wireless local area network so as to take advantage of Wi Fi hotspots. In some embodiments the wireless communication unit can communicate with other wireless devices on a bicycle using a bike area network. In other embodiments the wireless communication unit can communicate with Bluetooth devices using a Bluetooth network. In another embodiment the wireless communication unit can communicate with other wireless devices in a wireless mesh network e.g. by using Bluetooth Wi Fi Zigbee or other appropriate devices and protocols. In one embodiment the wireless communication unit arbitrates among multiple communication paths devices and protocols according to signal strength cost of using a path availability type of information or other factors appropriate to the communication. Arbitration could include an auto wakeup function upon detection of public Wi Fi or other communication path.

In various embodiments the sensors could include various combinations of the following types of sensors. An accelerometer could provide acceleration data relating to acceleration in one two or three dimensions. A movement sensor could provide data regarding movement generally or in specific directions or dimensions. For example the movement sensor could be as simple as a ball based tilt switch or a spring loaded weight and a contact switch or as complex as a micro machined device with strain gauges and amplifiers and so on. An angle sensor could detect tilting or leaning of the bicycle. In some embodiments an accelerometer or gyroscope or a combined device covers all possibilities of sensors for position and movement A signal strength sensor could detect the strength of the GPS signal or a wireless signal. An air quality sensor could detect various pollutants or other measures of air quality. In some embodiments a gyroscope which could be laser based solid state mechanical or some combination thereof could detect angular displacement in various axes directions and dimensions. In alternative embodiments the accelerometer gyroscope is a single Application Specific Integrated Circuit. An altimeter could provide data for tracking altitude. A tamper sensor could include various switches mounted for detection of opening of the case or housing of the bike GPS device or removal of the bike GPS from the bicycle or other human powered vehicle. The tamper sensor could also include a proximity sensor for detecting presence of an intruder.

A display could be integrated with a case or housing of the bike GPS device integrated with a frame of the bicycle or mounted to the bicycle in a location differing from the mounting of the bike GPS device for example on the frame or on the handlebars. The display could be connected wirelessly to the bike GPS device for example using the bike area network or could connect via wires to the bike GPS device . In some embodiments the display is integral with the bike GPS device and in other embodiments the display is considered external to or an accessory to the bike GPS device . The processing engine could employ the display for various user interfaces such as graphical user interfaces or text based user interfaces. In some embodiments the display includes a touchscreen.

The battery management unit manages the battery and together these provide power for the various electrical and electronic components of the bike GPS device . In some embodiments the battery can be charged via a USB Universal Serial Bus port of the battery management unit . In some embodiments the battery can be charged via a power supply which can be coupled to a hub dynamo . In some embodiments the power supply can be coupled to energy harvesting devices which could include a device harvesting energy from foot pressure on each bicycle pedal or a generator or dynamo coupled to the bicycle wheel pedal cranks or to other portions of the bicycle. The power supply could be coupled to a solar panel a small windmill generator or other alternative energy devices. The power supply could be coupled to a fuel cell or an external battery in some embodiments. Some bicycles may be equipped with an electric system for electric shifters and or lights and embodiments of the power supply could hook into such an electric system e.g. by a charging plug. In further embodiments the battery management unit could manage lighting such as a headlight and or taillight and could adjust lighting based on the available amount of energy in the battery and ambient light conditions . For example the battery management unit could provide a get home light control of the headlight and or taillight dimming modulating or flashing one or both of these to conserve battery energy.

The alarm unit provides an audible and or visible indication that an alarm situation is occurring. In some embodiments the alarm unit is coupled to a buzzer to produce an alarm sound. The alarm unit could be configured or programmed to produce an alarm sound unique to each bike GPS device or personalized for the user a group of bicycles or a fleet of bicycles. For example an alarm wave form file or other arrangement of data could be downloaded through the wireless communication unit into the memory then played back via the processor through the alarm unit and out via the buzzer . In further embodiments the alarm unit could activate a flashing light or physical impediments to theft e.g. activating the bicycle brakes issuing an electric shock or rendering gear shifting inoperable.

For example a first button of the wireless key fob could activate a geo fencing function of the bike GPS device . A second button could deactivate the geo fencing function. A third button could activate a tracking function of the bike GPS device . Tracking could be turned off by pressing the same third button or by pressing the second button or by another mechanism. A fourth button could activate the alarm unit e.g. as a panic button. The buttons could be reprogrammed by downloading configuration information through the wireless communication unit to the memory of the bike GPS device .

With reference to various functions and features can be implemented in embodiments of the bike GPS . These functions and features can operate in just the bike GPS device alone or in the bike GPS device in combination or cooperation with a cellular telephonic device such as the cell phone a server such as the cloud server and or the user device .

One function the system described herein is capable of executing is to track a path of a bicycle . The path as shown in is reduced in size for purposes of illustration. The processor could read in position coordinates from the GPS receiver and store a series of these position coordinates in the memory or relay the position coordinates via the wireless communication unit to the cell phone the cloud server or a user device . The connection to the global communication network could be made via the cellular telephonic network e.g. using a portal or via a wireless local area network such as Wi Fi e.g. at a Wi Fi hotspot coupled to the Internet. Tracking could be initiated manually for example by the user pressing a button coupled to the processor touching a touchscreen of the display or sending a command via a wireless device and the wireless communication unit . Or tracking could be initiated automatically for example by having a movement sensor an accelerometer or a gyro or a change in GPS based position coordinates trigger via the processor a start of a tracking process implemented by the processing engine. Tracking could be initiated by turning on the bike GPS device in some embodiments with position coordinates gathered at idle discarded. In some embodiments each position coordinate is accompanied by a timestamp so that the path tracking function can provide a record of position and time. Speed or velocity can be calculated so that the tracking could be displayed along with color coding or other coding indicating speed or velocity as well as position. These calculations and display renderings could be performed by the processor locally to the bike GPS device for presentation on the display or sending to a network or could be calculated by the cell phone the cloud server or the user device .

One function is to provide geo fencing for example for theft prevention. In theft prevention the user would activate the geo fencing function by employing the wireless key fob or by a mechanism similar to activation of tracking. The processor would read from the GPS receiver the present location of the bike GPS device and bicycle to which the device is attached and derive position coordinates for a circular radius or other shaped boundary around the bike GPS device . This boundary could be larger or smaller than shown as geo fencing in and may depend upon resolution of GPS coordinates and accuracy of the GPS receiver . The processor would then monitor the location of the bike GPS device and compare this location to the established position coordinates for the boundary. If the location of the bike GPS device is not within this boundary the processor can conclude that the bike GPS and the bicycle are outside of the geo fencing . Under such circumstances the processor can then activate the alarm unit and or send an alarm notification via the wireless communication unit to any of the networks or devices discussed above regarding tracking.

Various further functions relating to geo fencing can be devised. For example multiple geo fencing zones can be created based on position coordinates from the bike GPS device or from a map. A user could specify a home address as one such geo fencing zone and apply this towards theft prevention functions. A fleet owner could specify a business address as a center of a geo fencing zone or draw a larger boundary on a map for establishing limits of where rental bicycles are allowed to go. Another use of geo fencing is tethering. For example a parent could establish a geo fencing around a current position coordinate of the bicycle which the parent is riding i.e. a moving or relative geo fencing . The cloud server could track the current position coordinate of the parent s bicycle with the moving geo fencing and also track the current position coordinate of a child s bicycle from a bike GPS device attached to the child s bicycle. If the cloud server detects that the current position coordinate of the child s bicycle is outside of the moving geo fencing i.e. the child and bicycle have strayed too far away from the parent and bicycle the cloud server could respond by sending a text message to a cell phone of the parent or another notification as readily devised. Variations of moving geo fencing and tracking in general could be applied to group rides or buddy rides or bicycle races.

One function is to provide sensor data and interpretation for example for various types of monitoring and tracking. Inputs from an accelerometer a movement sensor an angle sensor a gyro or an altimeter could be read in by the processor which could perform various calculations and then store or transmit the raw or processed information via the wireless communication unit to any of the networks or devices discussed above regarding tracking. Or the processor could perform renderings and send output to the display . For example a detailed animation rendering of the motion of the bicycle could be presented e.g. as an overlay to the path tracking. This can include angle information such as tilt or yaw of the bicycle. Sensors could be calibrated for different mountings or locations of the bike GPS device e.g. on differing frame members of the bicycle. Information from the sensors could be processed to guard against theft. For example if the user has not activated tracking or has activated an alarm function the processor could interpret motion of the bicycle as indicative of a theft event. This could trigger an alarm via the alarm unit or transmission of event information via the wireless communication unit as above. Motion detection could operate in combination with geo fencing or independent of it for theft prevention or other purposes.

Another function is to provide performance tracking or information. For example various sensors could track rate of pedaling steepness of ascent or descent altitude changes distance and time or speed or velocity and the processor could derive calories consumed amount of energy produced by the rider recommendations for water stops rest stops or interval training and comparisons to previous rides. As above these trackings or calculations could be performed in the bike GPS device or the information could be relayed wirelessly as described in the tracking function for calculation or tracking at a server e.g. the cloud server and or on various devices. One example would be to combine altitude information from an altimeter one of the sensors with position coordinates from the GPS receiver for three dimensional path tracking e.g. of bicycle rides in hill or mountain territory.

Various further functions combining aspects of the above descriptions are readily devised in accordance with the teachings disclosed herein. For example readings from air quality sensors of the sensors from one or more bike GPS devices could be transmitted along with position coordinates via the wireless communication units to the cloud server . This would allow ongoing pollution and air quality monitoring along popular bicycle paths or other routes which could be displayed as an overlay to a map. Bicyclists on a group ride could keep track of straggling riders and arrange to wait for them using a variation of geo fencing and communicating via a wireless mesh network or via a cellular telephonic network . Bicycle rider traffic patterns could be monitored. The path or location of a stolen bicycle could be determined. The path or location of bicycles loaned or rented out from a fleet can be determined. Carbon offsets can be determined. Metrics that can be derived from the GPS based position coordinates and sensor data include but are not limited to calories distance traveled carbon offset paths speed time elevation reports maps and diagnostics.

A second graphical user interface is shown on a display of a cell phone . Performance data including position coordinates is relayed from the bike GPS device to the graphical user interface by one or more of the paths and mechanisms discussed above. For example the data could be sent via the cellular telephonic network or via one of the above mechanisms to the cloud server and thence via the Internet to an internet enabled cell phone and so on. The graphical user interface could display the path ridden by the bicyclist along with the current location of the bike GPS device and bicycle overlaid on a map of the region at various scales along with time distance and speed information. Either of the graphical user interfaces or others could display either of the presentations shown or others as readily devised in accordance with the teachings herein.

In the system shown in the tracking devices are instances of the bike GPS device . Each bike GPS device has a unique ID identifier and SIM card ID which could be pre provisioned from the factory in accordance with some embodiments. Once registered with the web application e.g. at the mission control website the bike GPS device can be activated. Once activated the bike GPS device can send continuous trip information that is stored in the cloud e.g. in the data storage . A user can enable and disable tamper sensors in the bike GPS device and other sensors features and functions. Data is stored in the data storage along with user details. This data is available for the mission control website to show various reports maps and diagnostics. The server acts as a communication server and communicates with tracking devices e.g. the bike GPS device tenant applications e.g. as operating on user devices and mobile applications e.g. as operating on cell phones . The load balancer performs load balancing of incoming requests. The mission control website presents data for different users as per their privileges. The website performs additional functionalities including device registration in which a process builds a lookup table with the device unique ID and SIM card ID device activation creation and management of missions and creation and management of individual systems. Tracking is then associated with respective registration information by the server . For example tracking information and registration information could be stored in a database in the data storage coupled to the server . Missions could be provided for tenants that own a large number of bike GPS devices e.g. a fleet manager. Reports and diagnostics of devices belonging to that particular tenant are provided. Individual systems provide information that is derived from mission data and valuable to an individual. Tenant applications could perform user management and validation and contact the server to start and stop tracking of a device. The mission control website could be accessed through the Internet using a browser. In some embodiments no client side download components are required.

As an example of trip tracking a trip could be started when an application programming interface API is called from a tenant application. The server could call up the bike GPS device to start the trip. The bike GPS device would then wake up and establish a connection to the server . Once the connection is ready the bike GPS device would then send trip data to the server either continuously or at intervals. The data is then stored in the data storage for example in a database. The trip could be stopped when the user docks the bicycle back to a tenant station or when the tenant application issues a direction to stop to the API. A lost connection could be restored with the bike GPS device sending copies of any data that was not previously received at the mission control website . Various forms of error handling could be implemented.

In case of theft an alarm notification could be sent to one or more of the mobile applications one or more of the tenant applications one or more of the individual system users one or more of the mission users one or more of the users or one or more super users . The mission control website could host images of bicycles or bicycles and users owners riders as part of the registration process for bike GPS devices . For example an alarm notification such as a text message could be sent to the cell phone corresponding to a registered one of the bike GPS devices . An alarm notification and an image of the bicycle that was stolen could be sent to cell phones corresponding to bike GPS devices of other riders whose position coordinates show them to be in the vicinity of the stolen bicycle. Any of such riders spotting the stolen bicycle would then contact the police. Email messages with or without attached images could be sent out to the owner and or broadcast to other participants or registered owners. Or position coordinates of a stolen bicycle could be sent to the police along with a photo of the bicycle and a request for recovery of the bicycle. A user could access current location and path information via any Internet connection to locate a stolen bicycle.

Various applications can make use of position coordinates and other information sent to a network by one or more of the bike GPS devices . Applications could execute on a server such as the cloud server or the server or could execute on a cell phone or a user device . For example an application could track riding habits usage patterns or bike performance. An application could track or manage aspects of a fleet of bicycles such as a fleet of rental bicycles or a campus fleet for borrowing. An application could track or manage aspects of ridesharing in which individuals lend out their bicycles and expect to get them back. An application could provide an alarm service contacting a bicycle owner through one of multiple telephone numbers or email addresses and so on in the event of a theft or theft attempt. An application could provide a registration service for registering the bike GPS device . This or another application could also provide a theft recovery service either for current and active members or upon request or payment of a fee accompanied by a request . A request based service could reactivate an otherwise inactive bike GPS device which would then respond with a current location coordinate effectively answering the question of Where is my bike A bike GPS device could be configured to feed information such as GPS information and power information to a specified application such as STRAVA .

A registration application executing on a server could receive registration information such as name and contact information for the bicycle owner an identifier of the unit an image of the bicycle an image of the user owner rider and so on. Upon receipt of such information the server could then activate the membership and provide a user interface upon which the user can view tracking information. Once a registration is activated the server can create and manage missions and create and manage individual systems i.e. a registered user can with the use of the server initiate a mission or an individual system which is then tracked on the server for viewing by the user.

A business method or model is applicable to embodiments of the bike GPS device . A business could buy large blocks of wireless machine to machine protocol communication from a cellular telephonic network provider and sell subscriptions to customers of the bike GPS device . The cellular provider would also provide a pool of reusable ID numbers which could be assigned to customers of the bike GPS device and reused upon cancellation of an account. The business could then charge subscription fees which could be recurring e.g. on an annual basis and could charge for hardware sales. Inactive accounts could be reactivated by charging a wake up fee in some embodiments. Users of the bike GPS could be offered a reduced price in exchange for receiving advertising. This business method or model could be applicable to bike fleets to individual owners or to bike sharing.

It should be appreciated that the methods described herein may be performed with a digital processing system such as a conventional general purpose computer system. Special purpose computers which are designed or programmed to perform only one function may be used in the alternative. is an illustration showing an exemplary computing device which may implement the embodiments described herein. The computing device of may be used to perform embodiments of the functionality for servers or user devices in accordance with some embodiments. The computing device includes a central processing unit CPU which is coupled through a bus to a memory and mass storage device . Some computing devices have a communication port coupled to the bus . The communication port can be coupled to a network . Mass storage device represents a persistent data storage device such as a floppy disc drive or a fixed disc drive which may be local or remote in some embodiments. The mass storage device could implement a backup storage in some embodiments. Memory may include read only memory random access memory etc. Applications resident on the computing device may be stored on or accessed via a computer readable medium such as memory or mass storage device in some embodiments. Applications may also be in the form of modulated electronic signals modulated accessed via a network modem or other network interface of the computing device. It should be appreciated that CPU may be embodied in a general purpose processor a special purpose processor or a specially programmed logic device in some embodiments.

Display is in communication with CPU memory and mass storage device through bus . Display is configured to display any visualization tools or reports associated with the system described herein. Input output device is coupled to bus in order to communicate information in command selections to CPU . It should be appreciated that data to and from external devices may be communicated through the input output device . CPU can be defined to execute the functionality described herein to enable the functionality described with reference to . The code embodying this functionality may be stored within memory or mass storage device for execution by a processor such as CPU in some embodiments. The operating system on the computing device may be MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS 2 UNIX LINUX or other known operating systems. It should be appreciated that the embodiments described herein may be integrated with virtualized computing system also.

In a decision action the question is asked is the registration activated If the answer is no flow loops at the decision action until the registration is activated. As an alternative the flow could branch elsewhere for example to check on other registrations or perform additional processes. If the answer is yes flow continues to the action .

Once the registration is activated a user interface is provided in an action . This user interface could be provided by a server which maintains the registrations and corresponding tracking of position coordinates and sensor data. Other aspects that could be activated responsive to receiving registration information and activating the registration include management of a mission and management of an individual system.

Position coordinates of the bicycle are generated from GPS data in an action . This takes place in a bike GPS device.

The position coordinates and sensor data are transmitted from the bike GPS device in an action . This could occur on a periodic basis or upon detection of motion etc. Some versions may lack sensors and would not transmit sensor data. The transmission is via a cellular telephonic network or a wireless local area network in the action . Which of these is applicable could depend upon available hardware in the bike GPS device or the bike GPS could arbitrate if more than one path is available and hardware supports this.

The position coordinates and sensor data are received at the server and stored in memory in the action . This would generally be memory coupled to the server and could include RAM random access memory hard drives solid state memory and so on.

The bicycle is tracked in an action . This could include tracking the current location tracking a path on which the bicycle has traveled tracking relative to geo fencing tracking on a map tracking relative to a fixed location tracking relative to a variable location tracking relative to an agreement a plan or a policy as in ridesharing group rides or fleet management and so on. Metrics are derived in an action . This could include calculations involving distance time and or sensor data as discussed above.

Geo fencing is established in an action . This could be accomplished by establishing a central location of a geo fencing zone and calculating coordinates of a perimeter based on the central location or comparing newly arriving position coordinates to the central location with various geometries as zones. Circular or rectangular regions are likely the simplest shapes for geo fencing zones but other shapes for zones and calculations pertaining thereto are readily devised.

In a decision action the question is asked is the bicycle outside the geo fencing A determination can be made by comparing a current location of the bicycle to one or more coordinates of the geo fencing zone. If the answer is no the flow branches back to the action to provide or update the user interface s . If the answer is yes the flow branches to the action to indicate that the bicycle is outside the geo fencing. This could include activating an alarm sending a notification or a broadcast message and or indicating on the user interface. After so indicating the flow branches back to the action to provide or update the user interface s . Geo fencing could be activated or deactivated and the corresponding steps followed or bypassed as appropriate. Geo fencing could be activated as part of a theft prevention or other routine. Geo fencing could be relative to a fixed location as in theft prevention fleet management ridesharing or a group ride or relative to a moving location as in electronic tethering a first bicycle equipped with a bike GPS device to a second bicycle equipped with a bike GPS device.

Users are registered in a hierarchy in an action . For example a registry could be established and maintained on a server and users of the bike GPS devices could register by providing various pieces of information. Passwords or other forms of authentication could be established and applied. The users and the hierarchy could include super users to whom information regarding missions tenants the plurality of bike GPS devices and the position coordinates from each of the plurality of bike GPS devices is provided by the server. The users and the hierarchy could include global users to whom information regarding missions of a fleet of bicycles and the bike GPS devices corresponding thereto is provided by the server. The users and the hierarchy could include mission users to whom information regarding a mission of the mission user and the bike GPS device corresponding thereto is provided by the server. The users and the hierarchy could include individual system users to whom information regarding an individual system of the individual system user and the bike GPS device corresponding thereto is provided by the server.

Bike GPS devices are activated or deactivated in an action . This could be in accordance with the registrations i.e. when a new registration is made the corresponding bike GPS device is activated and when a registration expires a corresponding bike GPS device is deactivated. GPS coordinates timestamps and or sensor data are received from the bike GPS devices attached to the bicycles in an action . As described above these various types of data are transmitted from each bike GPS device via a wireless coupling to a network and are transferred from the network to the server or from the network to another network and thence to the server etc. The GPS coordinates timestamps and or sensor data are sorted into memory according to the registered users and the hierarchy in an action . For example these could be sorted by the server into a memory coupled to the server. Data could be sorted as it arrives or later in batches or a combination of the two.

The bicycles are tracked in an action . Tracking could include keeping track of current locations of bicycles and or tracking paths the bicycles make i.e. keeping track of a series of position coordinates of each of the bicycles with or without timestamps. Tracking could include keeping track of sensor data as a function of position coordinates and or time. Tracking of a trip could be started upon a request e.g. via the server or could be started in response to a GPS bike device establishing a coupling to the server. This could happen in response to an auto wakeup function of the bike GPS device based on motion detection or geo fencing. The tracking of the trip could be stopped in response to a request to stop the trip tracking. If the coupling from the bike GPS device to the server is lost the bike GPS device could store data and send the data to the server upon resumption of the coupling to the server.

Data analytics are derived in an action . As discussed above many types of data analytics are possible and these can be derived from the position coordinates timestamps and or sensor data. For example data analytics could relate to personal fitness bicycle traffic patterns bicycle rider habits bicycle travel patterns bicycle riding retail stops wireless network signal parameters as a function of the position coordinates and or environmental conditions as a function of the position coordinates. Data analytics could be bundled for access by or sale to various individuals or groups for various purposes such as self use corporate use government use academic use or studies. For example data analytics could be prepared for a social fitness aggregation platform traffic pattern analysis municipal planning location based sales analytics bicycle and accessories sales analytics environmental analytics cellular telephonic network analytics and or wireless local area network analytics.

User interfaces are provided with access to tracking per the registrations and the hierarchy in an action . For example a fleet owner or operator a mission operator an individual contracting for use of a bicycle from a fleet and an individual owning a bicycle and a bike GPS device could each have a specialized user interface and or access to an appropriate portion of the data on the server i.e. access and or information is restricted according to the hierarchy. A mission control website could be provided to group operations such as fleet management or ridesharing from which to control registration of bike GPS devices activation of bike GPS devices management of missions and management of individual systems.

Maps are generated in an action . Maps could include a fleet map that shows locations of bicycles of a fleet mission maps that show paths of bicycles on missions and individual maps that each show one or more paths taken by a bicycle of an individual. The maps are based on the position coordinates. Maps could show additional information such as information based on the data analytics.

In a decision action a question is asked should there be a search for an active bike GPS device For example an owner could be requesting to locate a bicycle that has been misplaced or stolen. As a further example an operator could be searching for an active bike GPS device in order to deactivate the bike GPS device e.g. in a case of a lapsed registration or lack of payment of connection fees.

If the answer is yes there should be a search for an active bike GPS device the location of the active bike GPS device is provided to a user interface in an action . Other actions could take place here such as deactivating the bike GPS device enabling or disabling selected features and so on. If the answer is no the flow branches to the decision action .

In the decision action a question is asked is there a request for diagnostic information For example the request could be for diagnostic information stored in a memory coupled to a server e.g. as relating to past rides over a range of dates or paths of the bicycle previous ownership of the bicycle status of a registration and so on. If the answer is yes the diagnostic information is provided to a user interface in an action . If the answer is no the flow branches to the decision action .

In the decision action a question is asked is there a stolen bicycle alarm For example a current location of the bicycle determined from the position coordinates received at the server could be outside of a geo fencing established as part of a theft prevention system and this determination could act as an alarm. As a further example motion detection of the bicycle could be reported from the bike GPS device during a time in which the owner or operator of the bike GPS device has activated theft prevention e.g. by a wireless key fob communicating with the bike GPS device or remotely from the server communicating back to the bike GPS device etc. The alarm could be silent or could be accompanied by an alarm sound emanating from a buzzer attached to an alarm unit of the bike GPS device.

If the answer is yes there is a stolen bicycle alarm notifications and or alerts are sent in an action . These could include notification to a user via email notification to a user via a text message notification to a crowd sourced platform notification to social media an alert showing a bicycle location on a map an alert showing a real time location of the bicycle an alert to registered users of the plurality of bike GPS devices an alert to a partner database an alert to a police database an alert to a community association an alert to a neighborhood association and or an alert localized to a geographic area. This could be part of a stolen bicycle recovery system. After the action or if the answer is no there is no stolen bicycle alarm flow branches back to the action in order to register any new users in the hierarchy. Flow could branch elsewhere in further embodiments e.g. to perform additional actions or to repeat or bypass actions etc.

The upper half of the flow diagram of operates at the bike GPS device as shown in the bike GPS device entry point . After the entry point in a decision action a question is asked is the alarm function enabled at the bicycle For example a user could activate an alarm function of the bike GPS device by pressing an appropriate button on a wireless communication device e.g. a wireless key fob. If the answer is no then the alarm is deactivated in an action . The alarm may already be deactivated in which case the action need not be repeated. Alternatively the audible alarm may have been activated in which case the deactivation turns off the audible alarm. If the answer is yes the alarm function is enabled flow branches to the decision action .

In the decision action a question is asked is the GPS based position of the bicycle outside of a bicycle established geo fencing For example the bike GPS device could be monitoring the current position coordinates of the bike GPS device and bicycle to which the bike GPS device is attached and comparing the current location of the bicycle to position coordinates stored in the bike GPS device that indicate a geo fencing. This geo fencing could have the shape of a circular or rectangular geo fencing zone or boundary or some other geometric shape. If the answer is yes the flow branches to the action . If the answer is no the flow branches to the decision action .

In the decision action a question is asked is bicycle motion detected For example a motion detection sensor of the bike GPS device could detect that the bicycle is jostled moved in a direction or tilted at an angle that differs from the angle at which the bicycle was oriented when the alarm function was enabled at the bicycle. If the answer is yes the flow branches to the action . If the answer is no the flow branches back to the decision action in order to continue monitoring for a possible theft situation.

In the action an alarm notification is sent to the server. This is because a possible theft situation has been detected by the bike GPS device e.g. through either geo fencing or motion detection. The alarm notification is sent from the bike GPS device via a cellular telephonic network or via a wireless local area network as described in various embodiments.

In a decision action a question is asked is this a silent alarm If the answer is yes the flow branches back to the decision action to determine whether the alarm function is still enabled. If the answer is no the alarm is not silent an audible alarm is activated at the bike GPS device in an action . Flow then branches back to the decision action to determine whether the alarm function is still enabled.

The lower half of the flow diagram of operates at the server as shown at the entry point . In a decision action a question is asked is an alarm notification being received at the server from the bike GPS device If the answer is yes flow branches to the action . If the answer is no flow branches to the decision action .

In the decision action a question is asked is the current bicycle position outside of a server established geo fencing For example the server could compare a current position of the bicycle based on recently received position coordinates from the bike GPS device with position coordinates stored at the server that establish geo fencing. The position coordinates stored at the server could establish a circular rectangular or other shaped geo fencing zone or perimeter based on previously received position coordinates from the bike GPS device. If the answer is yes the flow branches to the action . If the answer is no the flow branches back to the decision action in order to continue monitoring for an alarm notification or a violation of server established geo fencing.

In the action a notification is sent to the user. The notification could include a location of the bicycle and could be sent as a text message to a cellular telephone or an email. The notification could be sent to a crowd sourced platform or to a social media of which the user is a member. More than one notification could be sent.

In the action alerts are sent. The alerts could include an alert showing a bicycle location on a map an alert showing a real time location of the bicycle an alert to registered users of the plurality of bike GPS devices an alert to a partner database an alert to a police database an alert to a community association an alert to a neighborhood association and or an alert localized to a geographic area. The localized geographic area could be based on position coordinates recently received at the server. After the action flow branches back to the decision action in order to continue monitoring for an alarm notification or a violation of server established geo fencing.

It should be appreciated that some embodiments implement one both or neither of bicycle established geo fencing and server established geo fencing with appropriate modifications to the above described method. For example a user who has not paid a current registration fee or who opts out of coupling to a server could rely on using motion detection at the bicycle and bicycle established geo fencing and the audible alarm but forgo communication to the server and thereby forgo server established geo fencing. A base model of the bike GPS device could use motion detection at the bicycle but not implement geo fencing. A deluxe system could provide the extra security of both bicycle established geo fencing and server established geo fencing to thwart a thief who manages to defeat the bicycle established geo fencing e.g. by acquiring a wireless key fob that can deactivate the alarm function at the bicycle.

With reference back to various aspects features applications and systems relating to the bike GPS device are discussed below. It should be appreciated that various embodiments can be formed from various combinations and that an embodiment can have a subset a variation of or all of the features herein described.

The bike GPS device has real time wireless connectivity to the cloud. The bike GPS device includes a cellular modem which connects the mobile device to the network. Some designs support global deployments with GSM and CDMA versions or Wi Fi versions which could be applicable in campus bike sharing systems. This real time wireless connectivity is a contributor to the theft deterrent and recovery aspects of the bike GPS device . Bike sharing operators have immediate knowledge about their fleets and individual bike owners don t have to wait until the end of a ride to upload data. Data is collected and archived in real time. Since the coupling to the server is wireless there is no need for cables or removing the bike GPS device from the bicycle.

The bike GPS device combines three functions integrated theft deterrence GPS and a performance analytics engine. A security system featuring the bike GPS device and a specially programmed server has extensive user notification and crowd sourced broadcasting. If a bicycle is stolen the security system automatically notifies the user through emails and texts. Notifications can also extend to crowd sourced platforms and social media to aid recovery akin to an Amber Alert. Alerts include information about the bicycle along with a map. Notifications can provide real time information about the bicycle location. Alerts can be broadcast to other registered users owners of the bike GPS device national bicycle registry registrants partner company databases e.g. Strava or other bike analytics application for large numbers of users and through other APIs to external databases such as local police departments and community and neighborhood associations. Notifications can be posted to user selected opt in individual social media accounts such as Twitter or Facebook or to corporate profiles localized to specific geographic areas.

An array of sensors including a gyro sensor and various algorithms in the bike GPS device can be used to discern a general environment for a bicycle. One feature of the bike GPS device is automated wake up based on motion detection. This promotes battery savings and ease of use. When a rider hops on the bicycle the bike GPS device detects this and the unit can function without the need for a rider carrying a cell phone or other external stimulus device. The bike GPS device detects the difference between movement scenarios such as when a bicycle owner places a bicycle on a car carrier or any motorized vehicle or moves the bicycle in an elevator. The gyro sensor and other sensors and intelligent algorithms are used for environment identification.

The bike GPS device can mount at the water bottle site on a bicycle frame since most bicycles have threaded inserts for a water bottle cage and spacing and thread size is standardized. This mounting location is a factor for assuring optimal performance of the wireless electronics. This mounting location also provides a level of stealth since the bike GPS device is sandwiched between the frame and the water bottle with an appearance similar to a frame mounted bicycle pump.

One method to arm and disarm an alarm function of the bike GPS device is to use a wireless key fob similar to an automotive key fob. This key fob can be based on Bluetooth and can be configured for automatic proximity triggering so that the bike GPS device mounted on the bicycle automatically recognizes when the key fob and therefore the bicycle owner approaches the bicycle. The key fob can also be an accessory that clips to the bicycle when the rider is using the bicycle. A multi key fob can be used for basic commands such as to start and stop tracking and logging to set or disarm the alarm and to set the unit into a deep sleep mode for battery conservation when the bicycle is in a safe location all without the need for a cell phone with an application.

Bike sharing and fleet management are supported by the bike GPS device . One system with a server and software capability is targeted towards bike sharing and fleet management operators. A wide area mesh network can be based on geographically distributed bicycles equipped with the bike GPS device system. The audible alarm feature of the bike GPS device can be programmed with a unique tone pattern which could with wide enough product acceptance become an instantly recognized indicator related to bike theft. This would be analogous to the particular whooping sound associated with car alarms.

The bike GPS device has a form factor and electronics layout optimized for bicycles. The physical layout form factor and mount location are optimized specifically for bicycle use. The antennas are placed above and below the water bottle to avoid signal blockage from the water in the water bottle . The bicycle mounted unit is designed with a long and narrow form factor with physically separated wireless functional blocks. The GPS receiver maintains high sensitivity in the presence of simultaneously operating relatively high power co located transmitters due to circuit partitioning and the printed circuit board PCB layout. The bike GPS device form factor is also optimized for insertion inside a bicycle frame . Global wireless compatibility is supported by a board design with load options for multiple cellular wireless standards.

Moving electronics inside the bicycle frame is a differentiator for the bike GPS device . Electronics inside the frame becomes a permanent part of the bicycle making the unit available to the user without fear of theft or the requirement for attachment and detachment each time the bicycle is used. Moving the alarm system inside the frame hides electronics and minimizes visibility and potential for tampering.

The bicycle mounted bike GPS device can be recharged locally with power derived from a dynamo hub generator . The bike GPS device manages the charging function and can serve as a master control system for other bike mounted sensors and lighting as part of a bike integrated power system. Core functions for alarm location mapping and logging and fitness performance analytics are further enhanced and differentiated by integrating an environmentally friendly tetherless power system. A further embodiment could use energy harvesting piezoelectric transducers or regenerative braking as part of a system to convert mechanical energy to electrical energy for battery charging as the rider pedals.

A bicycle frame made from a low dielectric constant or windows with same supports embedded wireless applications. Wireless signals cannot propagate through metal or carbon fiber two materials traditionally used for bicycle frames. By integrating low dielectric constant non conductive windows into the frame at strategic locations an assembly is created that permits electromagnetic radiation to pass to and from the bike GPS device inside the bicycle frame .

The bike GPS device has a bike area network embedded processing engine with integrated wireless connectivity sensor and power management and system management software. The bike GPS device can act as the hub or processing engine for on board sensors wireless connectivity and power management and can also manage other local bicycle or body worn sensors electronic shifting and lighting. The bike area network can be enabled through Bluetooth and can include sensors measuring heart rate cycling power cadence speed etc.

A bike frame integrated display can be featured. The electronics system embedded in the frame can be mounted inside the horizontal top tube and can incorporate a display seamlessly molded into the frame and facing up toward the rider. The display can be a dashboard for the bike GPS device similar to the dashboard of an automobile. The display could make use of wider more square horizontal tubes which are trend in one segment of the bicycle industry.

A cloud based bike area network embedded processing engine with integrated real time wireless connectivity sensor and power management and system management software is supported by the bike GPS device . The bike GPS device further supports a stolen bike recovery system based on the bike mounted cloud based activity monitor and crowd sourced broadcasting. The bike GPS device further supports a cloud based national bicycle registration software with automated registration broadcasting programmable geo zones bicycle owner and bicycle photos. The bike registration and stolen bike recovery system includes a cloud based national registry for bicycle owners featuring integration with the bike GPS device system electronic registration and opt in documentation of the bicycle owner with bicycle ID and bicycle photos. Functional features facilitated through software server and database include programmable geo zones crowd sourced stolen bike broadcasting and management of bike GPS device functions.

Auto wake up for stolen bike recovery is included as a way to locate a bicycle even if the owner is not currently subscribing to a wireless plan for the bike GPS device . The location could be identified through periodic unilateral queries from the server. Additionally units equipped with Wi Fi can be queried should the bicycle pass through an area with public Wi Fi service. Management of the frequency of queries as a function of battery capacity and other factors such as cell service signal levels or whether cellular networks or Wi Fi networks would be used is controlled through customized software.

Social fitness applications can be based on the bicycle mounted cloud based bicycle activity monitor. A mobile app application can be designed to mate with the cloud based bicycle mounted activity monitor. This app could include automated notifications and statistics coaching and route optimization prediction.

A multiple tier bike fleet management system includes software and a hierarchical multi tier architecture. Fleet management involves top level factory enterprise mid level fleet operator and low level individual rider database management and user interfaces. This combines previously noted capabilities and features into a fleet management system.

A social fitness aggregation platform is supported. A backend server and software capability combined with a mobile app can serve as an aggregation platform for social fitness monitors. For example a single software platform could integrate data analytics from the bike GPS device with personal fitness monitors such as Fitbit Up and others to effectively act as a super app for multiple social fitness monitoring devices.

Data analytics for traffic pattern analysis and municipal planning can be based on the bike mounted monitor and cloud enabled data collection system. A large amount of data can be gathered from bicycle riders using the bike GPS device . A data analytics software suite could be offered specifically for municipalities interested in using the data for transportation planning. The combination of where the data originates e.g. bicycles how the data is collected and its bundling for specific use of municipalities is a contribution from the bike GPS device .

Data analytics for bicycle and accessory sales can be based on user habits and patterns derived from a bicycle mounted monitor and cloud enabled data collection system. A data analytics software suite could be offered specifically for bicycle and bicycle accessory manufacturers interested in acquiring data about bicycle rider habits. This could offer a way for vendors to maintain a long term relationship with customers who can be alerted to sales or other targeted marketing opportunities.

Data analytics for environmental data can be based on a network ID and signal parameters from bicycle mounted monitors and the cloud enabled data collection system. A data analytics software suite can be offered that leverages data originating from bicycles and is for sale to external customers. One data analytic category includes data about wireless network signal parameters as a bicycle moves through the environment. One data analytic category includes data about environmental conditions based on bike mounted pollution sensors. Further software analysis could examine health trade offs of fitness versus pollution and riding routes.

Data analytics for calculation and sale of carbon offsets could be offered with a software suite specifically for calculation of carbon dioxide footprint and offset. Bicycle sharing and fleet operators can use the data for financial compensation in the greenhouse gas carbon emissions offset market.

An embedded processing engine for optimal battery management and network arbitration and optimal selection are offered by the bike GPS device . Embedded software in the bike GPS device optimizes which network to use e.g. cellular Bluetooth as through a cellular phone or Wi Fi for optimal system availability optimal battery management and lowest latency.

Trip tracking from the tenant application could be started when a start API is called from the tenant application. The server would then call up the bike GPS device to start the trip. The bike GPS device then wakes up and establishes a connection to the server. Once the connection is ready the bike GPS device sends trip data to the server at intervals. The data is stored in a database. Once a user docks a bicycle back at the tenant station the tenant calls a stop API. This sends a stop signal to the server. The server then closes the connection. During the trip if the connection is lost whether through loss of wireless coupling or loss of a network connection the bike GPS device stores data until a connection can be restored. Once the connection is restored the bike GPS device sends the data that was stored to the server. Error handling could include setting of an error bit in case of error or could include error correction via use of an error correction code ECC .

Messages from the bike GPS device could have various formats. One format could be to send a unit ID as an alphanumeric a timestamp from the GPS data a latitude and longitude from the GPS data a GPS fix status a speed an RSL received signal level e.g. of the wireless coupling a pressure e.g. atmospheric pressure as an absolute or normalized and or temperature.

A server communicates with tracking devices e.g. the bike GPS device and related client entities e.g. tenant apps mobile apps for tracking and reporting. The server can activate a device perform check in and checkout and get data pushed from the device. The server can apply an authentication mechanism to ensure data is from trusted clients. The server can be hosted in a physical environment a virtual computing environment or a cloud environment.

In the hierarchy of users a superuser including one type of superuser known as an administrator can create missions. Each mission could have a mission ID a mission name a mission description tenant details a language package units mission users created during mission creation and pages for the mission users. The superuser can have access to the entire data collected by devices subscribed globally. The superuser can view or edit missions search the missions and add or remove mission users.

An administrator can enter a unique ID for new devices a SIM ID and a phone number to create a lookup table for device activation. The administrator can also search for a device ID and review information in a table. The administrator can create superuser custom dashboards for analyzing worldwide data. A super administrator user can enable access of widgets for other mission users. Widgets could access derive and display the total number of devices active devices pending activation devices total miles average miles total time average time carbon footprint calories burned cost savings in terms of money etc. The super administrator should be able to create and edit default report templates add or change the name of the report define a unit for the final report add or remove fields customize columns and positions add or remove filters that are available for an end user to generate reports such as mission company device status date and time battery gauge and user type and add or remove other users.

A system user can create a custom dashboard pinning available default summary reports and arranging them on the dashboard or removing a summary report from the dashboard. The system user can access all default reports and reports for which the system user has privilege. The system user can customize reports setting available filters removing and rearranging columns and so on.

Maps can be generated with various color codings such as for a trip with no issues a trip with a lost connection a docked bicycle and a device error e.g. a battery critically low. Maps could start with a global view so that a system user can see all missions available. Each mission could be represented as a colored dot and hovering over one of the dots shows summary reports with mission name company name number of devices number of devices on a ride and number of docked devices. Clicking on a dot zooms into a mission which shows a sidebar with filters for selections of what is shown in the map. The filters include active devices all devices moving devices docked devices battery level and device errors. Maps show the fleet moving in real time. Maps show bubbles indicating moving and parked devices. Clicking on a bubble shows a pop up with details such as device ID bike number GPS SIM ID battery fuel gauge with indicator of percentage left speed if moving temperature of unit time and any errors such as error details or if the device cannot be found or tracked.

A mission user can create and manage individual systems. This includes adding an individual system name and description or deleting an individual system. The mission user can create users for the individual system adding username email ID and contact details for each user and resetting a default password if needed. In a dashboard the mission user can see a summary report of a parent mission. The mission user can access mission maps.

The individual system user can see in a dashboard data under his parent mission. The individual system user can view reports with data under his parent mission. It should be appreciated that various further categories of users in an hierarchy and various arrangements of permissions accesses displays and capabilities for the users in the hierarchy are readily devised in variations of the above descriptions per the teachings described in this specification.

Detailed illustrative embodiments are disclosed herein. However specific functional details disclosed herein are merely representative for purposes of describing embodiments. Embodiments may however be embodied in many alternate forms and should not be construed as limited to only the embodiments set forth herein.

It should be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various steps or calculations these steps or calculations should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one step or calculation from another. For example a first calculation could be termed a second calculation and similarly a second step could be termed a first step without departing from the scope of this disclosure. As used herein the term and or and the symbol includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. Therefore the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions acts noted may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two figures shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the embodiments might employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as producing identifying determining or comparing. Any of the operations described herein that form part of the embodiments are useful machine operations. The embodiments also relate to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus can be specially constructed for the required purpose or the apparatus can be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines can be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

A module an application a layer an agent or other method operable entity could be implemented as hardware firmware or a processor executing software or combinations thereof. It should be appreciated that where a software based embodiment is disclosed herein the software can be embodied in a physical machine such as a controller. For example a controller could include a first module and a second module. A controller could be configured to perform various actions e.g. of a method an application a layer or an agent.

The embodiments can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can be thereafter read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer system so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion. Embodiments described herein may be practiced with various computer system configurations including hand held devices tablets microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The embodiments can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wire based or wireless network.

Although the method operations were described in a specific order it should be understood that other operations may be performed in between described operations described operations may be adjusted so that they occur at slightly different times or the described operations may be distributed in a system which allows the occurrence of the processing operations at various intervals associated with the processing.

The foregoing description for the purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the embodiments and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the embodiments and various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

