---

title: Using a wireless beacon to provide access credentials to a secure network
abstract: There are provided systems and methods for using a wireless beacon to provide access credentials to a secure network. A network access device, such as a WiFi router, may provide a secure wireless network requiring access credentials to access the network. For example, the network may be password protected to prevent unauthorized used. Additionally, the network may have various levels of use, such as access depending on a security clearance for a user or data transfer and usage rates. Each of the various levels of use may require a separate access credential. A wireless beacon may be configured to connect to user devices that are near or within an area covered by the network. The connection between a user device and the beacon may be utilized to determine the proper access credential for the user device and push the access credential to the user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09479937&OS=09479937&RS=09479937
owner: EBAY, INC.
number: 09479937
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140822
---
The present application generally relates to network access and more specifically to using a wireless beacon to provide access credentials to a secure network.

Various locations may provide secure wireless networks through network access devices such as WiFi routers providing a password protected network for Internet access. Usage of these networks requires a security credential. However an administrator of a secure wireless network may wish that the credentials remains unseen to certain users accessing the network such as guest users visiting a merchant location and or office building. This allows the administrator to prevent unauthorized usage of the network by users on return visits or once they have concluded their business with the provider of the network. Moreover the administrators may wish to provide different levels of access to a network. For example some users may have a security clearance to access other devices on the network freely search the Internet or execute other actions while on the network. However the administrator may wish to prevent guest users from the aforementioned actions. Thus the administrator must take caution to provide the correct access credentials to each user utilize the network.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Provided are methods for using a wireless beacon to provide access credentials to a secure network. Systems suitable for practicing methods of the present disclosure are also provided.

Various locations may provide short range wireless beacons that may communicate with a device such as through Bluetooth Low Energy BLE LTE Direct or other beacon communication protocol. These beacons may be set up at a location and communicate with the device to alert users of check in services through their device. The beacons may provide information stored on the beacons. The beacons may also provide communication with a device attached to or in communication with the beacon such as another device of another user corresponding to the location and or an Internet router. Thus the beacons may provide additional functionality such as establishing a connection with a device or server for use in verifying an identity of the user and providing the user s device with information.

An administrator of a protected wireless network e.g. an owner of a wireless Internet router may offer check in services to guest users at a location for the network through the aforementioned wireless beacons. For example a business merchant location office or other public or private location may provide a protected wireless network through a network access device where the location further includes wireless beacons configured to connect to devices within or nearby the range of the protected wireless network. The short range wireless beacons may employ BLE LTE Direct or other communications that emit a signal receivable by the guest user s device. The communication may include an identifier for the beacon the administrator and or a device server effectuating the check in e.g. an administrative device for the administrator . The guest user s device may be set up to passively monitor for BLE communications. When the guest user s device detects the signal and verifies the identifier both the device and the beacon may ramp up in power and establish a connection where the connection may further enable the guest user s device to communicate with another device and or server effectuating check in. The beacon may be connected to a networked device at the location or the beacon may include network functionality to communicate with the device server e.g. over the wireless network or a cellular network . Thus the beacon enables the guest user s device to complete a check in at the location for the network. The check in may be completed automatically when the guest user s device is in range of the beacon or may be completed after prompting the guest user to check in when the guest user s device is in range of the beacon.

Once a connection is established between the user device and the beacon an administrative device for an administrator of the protected wireless network may determine if the user may access the protected wireless network through the user device. The administrative device may be utilized by an office manager information technology department merchant or merchant employee or other party that may determine and or view which user device may access the network. In this regard the administrative device may determine an access right or entitlement for the user device. The access right entitlement may define if a user and or the user s device may access the protected wireless network. Further the access right entitlement may further determine an access level to the network for the user user device. The access level may determine a security level or clearance for the user device during use of the protected wireless network. In such embodiments the security clearance for the user device may let the user device perform certain actions or may prevent the user device from performing certain actions. Such actions may include access of other devices databases and or servers connected to the network usage and searches of the Internet while connected to the network etc. In other embodiments the access level may determine a data transfer bandwidth data transfer amount and or data transfer speed for the user device while connected to the network. Thus a user device with a higher or more trusted access level may be enabled to transfer more data and or utilize more bandwidth while connected to the wireless network.

The access right and or access level may be defined by security credentials for the user and or the user device. Thus user s working in IT may be given free access to the protected wireless network and devices connected to the protected wireless network while guest users may be limited to email basic Internet usages etc. The security credentials may also define whether the user is entitled to access the network such as a secure network within a conference room. In such embodiments only attendees of a meeting or employees of a company may access the protected wireless network.

Furthermore the access right and or access level may be determined by user actions while at the location or prior to visiting the location. For example the location may correspond to a merchant that offers free wireless Internet access while a user is in the store and shopping with the merchant. Thus to insure other users are not impermissibly using the wireless Internet network the merchant may require receipts and or shopping action e.g. selecting items for purchase check in to a sub location inside of the store etc. in order to utilize the network. Thus the access right and or access level may be determined by receipts a transaction history with the merchant shopping actions and or other actions while at the merchant location. The access right and or access level may be increased based on the shopping actions such as by providing an increased usage rate of the network for preferred or loyal customers or upgrading usage of the network if the user is purchasing or has purchased expensive items. The user may also establish a loyalty account with the merchant that includes benefits extended to the user. The loyalty account may define the access right and or access level such as by allowing the user to utilize the network if the user has a loyalty account and providing increased usage of the network based on benefits within the loyalty account.

An amount of time that the user device has been connected to the wireless beacon or wireless beacons through a location may also define the access right and or access level. For example users quickly visiting a store may not be given wireless Internet usage while a user spending a significant amount of time shopping may be extended usage of a certain time period. Additionally if the user device is connected to a wireless beacon for an extended period of time an upgrade to the access level to the protected wireless network may be extended to the user. The upgrade may entitle the user to utilize a secret or private network within the store which may extend secret sales to only users on the secret network. The protected wireless network may include devices such as secure media playback devices private computer networks etc. The access right and or access level may define what devices the user device may have access to on the network as previously discussed. Thus a leader of a conference may be given access to secure media playback devices while attendees are only given wireless Internet usage.

The administrative device may push the credential to access the protected wireless network to the user device once an access right and or access level for the network is determined for the user. The credential may be pushed as encrypted and or time sensitive data which may be later removed and or revoked from the user device. The credential may be removed after a time period expires or after a certain time occurs such as a closing of a store or business. Additionally the credential may be removed if the user disconnects from one or more of the wireless beacon and the protected wireless network provided by the network access device.

System includes a user a user device a location having a wireless beacon and a network access device an administrative device in communication over a network . User such as a guest user requesting access to a protected wireless network provided by network access device may utilize user device to connect to wireless beacon while at location . Administrative device may determine an access right or entitlement for user to utilize the network. If the user is authorized to access the network administrative device may push or may have wireless beacon push the credentials of the network to user device which later may be removed from user device .

User device wireless beacon and network access device may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with wireless beacon and or network access device . For example in one embodiment user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Although a user device is shown the user device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one user device is shown a plurality of user devices may function similarly.

User device of contains a check in application a browser application other applications a database and a communication module . Check in application browser application and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program. In other embodiments user device may include additional or different software as required.

Check in application may be used by user of user device to transmit check in information for processing a check in for user . Check in application may correspond to a specific application utilized by user device with wireless beacon and or administrative device to complete a check in for location and or network access device . The check in may correspond to a process to log in to a user account of user e.g. a user account for a protected wireless network provided by network access device and or a user account with administrative device such as a loyalty account or security account . In other embodiments the check in may provide and or verify the identity of user including transmission of an identifier for user and or user device . The check in may be completed over network with administrative device . In such embodiments check in application may correspond more generally to browser application configured to communicate with the entity providing the user account. In other embodiments a check in need not be completed over network and an identifier or other identification information for user and or user device may be provided to administrative device .

Check in application may also receive short range wireless communications from wireless beacon at location and complete a check in that associates user with wireless beacon at location . For example location may include wireless beacon configured to connect to user device at location or a sub area within location . Wireless beacons may be established nearby or within an area covered by a protected wireless network provided by network access device so that wireless beacon is set up to communicate with user device when user device is in proximity to network access device and can access the protected wireless network. In such examples wireless beacon may be set up at an entryway meeting room conference room sub area or other area at location that provides and is covered by the protected wireless network. Check in application may transmit check in information to wireless beacon for use in processing the check in for user . As previously discussed in other embodiments a check in for user need not be processed using wireless beacon and instead user device may provide an identifier or other identification information for user and or user device to wireless beacon . The check in information identifier and or other identification information may be used to determine an access right and or access level for user and or user device with the protected wireless network offered by network access device as will be explained in more details herein.

Check in application may execute in the background of an operating system of user device and be configured to establish connections using communication module of user device with wireless beacon at a location corresponding to a network provided by network access device . The connection may be established with or without user input from user . For example wireless beacon may broadcast a token such as a universally unique identifier UUID for reception by check in application as will be explained in more detail herein. Check in application may utilize communication module of user device to receive the token from wireless beacon . If check in application acknowledges the UUID as identifying wireless beacon network access device a network corresponding to network access device and or administrative device e.g. if check in application determines the UUID corresponds to a request to complete a check in for a server offering check in services check in application may transmit check in information and or an identifier corresponding to user and or user device back to wireless beacon . Check in application may utilize communication module of user device to communicate with wireless beacon e.g. over near field communication Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy radio infrared or other connection . The identifier from user device may include be transmitted with concatenated with or otherwise bundled with the identifier received from wireless beacon .

Once a connection is established with wireless beacon user device may be checked in to location and or network access device if user has not previously been checked in. The check in process may further associate user with wireless beacon used to check in user . For example a user administrator corresponding to administrative device e.g. a merchant merchant employee a technology representative a business owner or manager etc. for a protected wireless network provided by network access device may previously register wireless beacon as corresponding to the wireless network for network access device nearby or within the protected wireless network . Thus administrative device in communication with wireless beacon may be informed that user is in proximity to the protected wireless network because user is checked in to wireless beacon using user device . In various embodiments user may be associated generally with location and network access device serving location . However in other embodiments wireless beacon and network access device may correspond to a sub area of location e.g. a conference room an area of a merchant store etc. . Thus user may be associated with the sub area in such embodiments.

Check in application may also transmit and or receive information utilized by user device . For example check in application may receive information for network access device including an access credential for a protected wireless network offered by network access device . The information may assist user device in accessing the network such as by providing access to the network based on user s access right entitlement to the network. The network access credentials may be transmitted as a data token which may be removed erased or revoked when user device disconnects from one or more of wireless beacon and or the protected wireless network. User device may utilize communication module to receive the aforementioned information. Check in application may display to user in an application interface of check in application that user device has received the credential and may access the network. However as previously discussed the credential may be hidden encrypted or otherwise invisible to user so that user may not be informed of the credential. Thus user device may alert user that user device has connected to the protected wireless network and may not provide information about the credential and or network connectivity status in check in application .

Once check in application has received the credential for the protected wireless network provided by network access device user device may access the network and configure user device to utilize the network for data transfers. Additionally the credential for accessing the network may correspond to an access level for utilizing the network. The access level may determine the rights uses data transfer rates and or security clearance for user and or user device while utilizing the network. The access level may be determined using the check in information and or identifier for user as will be explained in more detail herein. The access level may be displayed to user through check in application or may remain hidden from user . The credential defined by the access level may also alter which protected wireless network provided by network access device and or other network access devices may be utilized by user . For example a first credential may allow use of only a base network while a second credential may enable use of the base and or an upgraded network e.g. one offering faster data transfer increased security clearance secret sales etc. as will be explained in more detail herein . User device and or check in application may also provide a user interface that permits user to view available networks access networks for which check in application possesses credentials and disconnect from one or more of the networks. Check in application may provide user with information for the networks such as a name owner administrator of the network amount and type of data transferred over one or more of the networks and or data security e.g. privacy information for user device and data stored on user device .

Browser application may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse the Internet including navigation to websites and between webpages of websites. Browser application may therefore be configured to transmit and receive information such as webpage requests input to webpages downloads and uploads of data in database of user device etc. Thus when user device is connected to a network browser application may utilize network bandwidth to communicate data over the network. Where the network is a cellular communication network data transfers by browser application may require a data plan which may include a limit on the amount of data transferable over a period of time by user device . Thus user may wish to utilize a WiFi or other network provided by network access device to access and transfer data over the Internet to avoid usage of the data plan and potentially increase data transfer speeds. As previously discussed user may therefore utilize check in application to request a credential to access a protected wireless network and input the credential to an access the network.

Browser application may be utilized while connected to the protected wireless network to browse the Internet. In various embodiments browser application may more generally correspond to applications that may be further utilized to connect to other devices servers and or components of the protected wireless network to utilize such components. For example browser application may be utilized to access and use a media device such as a monitor television or other display device by user device e.g. to utilize during a presentation in a conference room . The access level determined for user device may determine the rights of browser application to browse the Internet utilize the connected components and or perform other actions while connected to the protected wireless network. Thus browser application may be limited by the credential supplied to used device for connecting to the network.

In various embodiments various features of check in application and or browser application may be incorporated in the same application so as to provide their respective features in a single application.

User device includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow a user to send and receive emails calls texts and other notifications through network . In various embodiments other applications may include financial applications such as banking online payments money transfer or other applications associated with a payment provider server. Other applications may include mapping or other applications that show a range and or location of a protected wireless network provided by network access device . Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to the user.

User device may further include database which may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with check in application browser application and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for payment user device authentication or identification. Identifiers in database may be used by administrative device to associate user device with a particular account maintained by administrative device . Identifiers in database may be used by check in application to identify user and or user device during check in with wireless beacon . Database may include user device tokens and or encryption keys including an encryption key of wireless beacon network access device a protected wireless network provided by network access device and or administrative device . Database may include identifying information for tokens enabling check in application to identify the aforementioned entities when receiving a corresponding token. Information in database may be utilized to authorize user to access a network provided by network access device such as a credential or credentials for a protected wireless network.

User device includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with wireless beacon network access device and or administrative device over network . In various embodiments communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may communicate directly with wireless beacon and or network access device using short range communications such as radio frequency infrared Bluetooth LTE Direct WiFi and near field communications.

Location may correspond to a physical location where a network access device such as a wireless Internet router provides a network for use by user device . In this regard the network offered at location may correspond to a protected wireless network requiring a credential to access and utilize the protected wireless network. In various embodiments location may correspond to an office a business a merchant location a storefront a mall or retail location or other location where a protected wireless network may be offered to user for use by user device . Thus location may include various features to provide limited and or unlimited access to the protected wireless network for users visiting location .

Location of includes wireless beacon and a network access device configured to provide a protected wireless network accessible using wireless beacon . Wireless beacon and or network access device may include hardware and software necessary to execute the processes and functions as described below. In other embodiments location may include additional hardware and or software as required to process the above and below described features offered by location .

Wireless beacon may be maintained for example by an administrator corresponding to administrative device such as a business owner a merchant an office manager or other entity offering a network accessible at location . Wireless beacon may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wireless communication with user device . For example in one embodiment wireless beacon may be implemented as a dongle device including a hardware processor and a communication module for example connected to administrative device . Wireless beacon may also be implemented as devices incorporated within a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Wireless beacon may also act as a stand alone device including a processor communication module and or network interface component configured to communicate with user device and or payment provider server . Although wireless beacon is described singly a plurality of wireless beacons may established at location with one or more corresponding to a protected wireless network offered by network access device .

Wireless beacon of contains processes procedures and or applications for example a software program executable by a hardware processor configured to interact with user device network access device and or administrative device . Thus regardless of the implementation of wireless beacon as discussed above wireless beacon may utilize a connection check in process and include or be connected to a communication module. In other embodiments wireless beacon may include additional or different hardware and software as required.

Wireless beacon may include an application for transmitting requests to establish a connection between a device e.g. user device and wireless beacon . The requests may be unique to wireless beacon thereby identifying wireless beacon . Wireless beacon may utilize short range wireless communications of wireless beacon to transmit the requests to establish a connection including an identifier such as a Universally Unique Identifier UUID . If user device receives a request to establish the connection with wireless beacon and responds with an identifier for user user device potentially including the UUID and other information necessary to effectuate a check in for user as previously discussed wireless beacon to ramp up in power and create a connection between user device and wireless beacon .

Wireless beacon may transmit the request to establish the connection with wireless beacon as a short range wireless communication e.g. a BLE protocol communication including a wake up process for check in application of user device and or a token for wireless beacon transmitting the request. In other embodiments the request and or connection may utilize near field communication radio communication infrared communication or Bluetooth communication. Additionally although wireless beacon may utilize BLE protocol communications to effectuate an always on type service where the UUID and wake up process are transmitted continuously other communication protocols used to provide an always on service may include QUALCOMM LTE Direct or similar device to device communication technology. BLE and LTE Direct may both be utilized to provide discovery of nearby devices to wireless beacon e.g. user device and establishment of a connection for data transfers. In other embodiments wireless beacon may correspond to other devices such as WiFi capable devices near field communication devices etc.

The request may be specific to user device by including information that is specific to user and or user device such as a name identifier or user device identifier. The information specific to user may be determined from a user account of user or other information previously provided to administrative device e.g. a user account established with administrative device such as a security account loyalty account etc. . Thus in certain embodiments only user device will pick up and authenticate the request for example if user has previously performed a transaction with the merchant corresponding to merchant location administrative device . For example user may have generated a receipt or a transaction history with the merchant or may create a prepopulated return order form for a purchase with the merchant.

After wireless beacon receives an identifier from user device wireless beacon may determine user is in proximity to wireless beacon . Wireless beacon may pass the identifier and any other device s identifiers where applicable to administrative device to associate user and the other users where applicable with the wireless beacon . By associating user with wireless beacon administrative device may determine that user device is near or within a range covered by the protected wireless network offered by network access device and may be requesting to access the network.

After check in information is received from user device administrative device may determine if user device is authorized to access a protected wireless network provided by network access device as will be explained in more detail herein. If user device is authorized to access the network one or more of wireless beacon network access device and or administrative device may transmit a credential to user device enabling user device to access the protected wireless network provided by network access device . As previously discussed the credential may be encrypted hidden or otherwise obfuscated so that user is unaware of the credential but they still allow access to the network. The credential may comprise a security key or password enabling access to the network. Moreover the token or information containing the credential passed to user device may be set up to be wiped removed or revoked as soon as user device disconnects from wireless beacon and or the network provided by network access device . For example if user moves sufficiently far away from wireless beacon to disconnect from wireless beacon the credential may be removed from user device by check in application of user device and or administrative device over network . In other embodiments when user device disconnects from the network provided by network access device e.g. actively disconnects based on user s input and or leaves location or a sub area of location for the network the credential may be similarly removed from user device .

Wireless beacon may utilize a communication module to pass the check in information and or identifier for user user device to administrative device . Thus wireless beacon includes a communication module adapted to communicate with user device and or administrative device . The communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. The communication module of wireless beacon may also communicate with user device and or administrative device using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct WiFi radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Network access device corresponding to a device enabling transfer of data information over the Internet. In various embodiments network access device may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a WiFi device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices. Network access device may provide a protected wireless network utilized to communicate with other computer networks including the Internet. For example network access device may provide a WiFi network. Network access device may be password and or key protected and users may be required to pay for use of or amount of data transmitted over the network. Network access device may communicate directly with wireless beacon using short range communications such as BLE radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications or over network .

Administrative device may correspond to a device used by an administrator for location and or network access device . In this regard administrative device may determine an access right for user and or user device to utilize a protected wireless network provided by network access device . The credential may also correspond to an access level for user and or user device . Administrative device may further transmit a credential to user device if user and or user device is entitled to access the network. Administrative device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with user device wireless beacon and or network access device . For example administrative device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS other type of wearable computing device and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Although a merchant device is shown the merchant device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one merchant device is shown a plurality of merchant devices may function similarly. Moreover in various embodiments one or more of the applications processes and or features discussed below in reference to administrative device may be provided by wireless beacon .

Administrative device of contains a network access application location applications other applications a database and a communication module . Network access application location applications and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications for example a software program executable by a hardware processor. In other embodiments administrative device may include additional or different software as required.

Network access application may correspond to an application configured to receive check in information an identifier and or identification information for user and or user device determine an access right for user and or user device and transmit a credential to access a protected wireless network provided by network access device to user device . In this regard network access application may correspond to processes to complete check in with user device with location after receiving check in information an identifier and or identification information for user user device from wireless beacon . Thus network access application may correspond to the administrative device side application configured to receive check in information from user device and complete the check in. The check in request may include log in information for a user account with administrative device and thus complete the check in with user by verifying the account information. For example the check in information may include an identifier or other account information for a merchant account loyalty reward account payment account security account e.g. security clearance email messaging account or other user account of user . However in embodiments where a user account has not been previously established by user network access application may receive other information identifying user . In certain embodiments network access application may not complete a check in for user and may utilize the received identification information to determine an access right or entitlement to utilize the protected wireless network and an access level during use of the protected wireless network.

Once information for user has been received network access application may determine an access right and or entitlement for user and or user device . As previously discussed the access right may determine whether user device may utilize a protected wireless network provided by network access device . The access right may be determined using information stored to database about user and or user device such as a user account access information or other available data in database . For example user may establish a user account such as a loyalty account or business account with administrative device . The user account may include information determining whether user and or user device may access the network. Thus if user has access or reward benefits entitling user to utilize the network in a loyalty account network access application may determine user may access the network. In other embodiments a user account with a business e.g. an email account a security account or other established account may include access rights for user and or user device . Thus network access application may determine the access right through a user account.

Moreover an administrator for a protected wireless network provided by network access device may establish the access right for user and or user device . For example the administrator may utilize administrative device to set an access right for user and or user device if the administrator knows user may require access to the network or is requesting access to the network. The administrator may set the access right based on past or current actions by user such as previous purchases and or transaction histories presentations given or to be given by user current requests by user security clearances of user etc. Once network access application determines an access right for user and or user device network access application may retrieve a credential to access the protected wireless network and communicate the credential to user device . The credential may be communicated to user device over network by administrative device . In other embodiments wireless beacon may also be utilized to communicate the credential to user device for example using a stored credential after instruction by administrative device or after receiving the credential from administrative device . In further embodiments network access device may similarly be utilized to push the credential to user device .

In addition to determining an access right or entitlement to utilize a protected wireless network provided by network access device network access application may also determine an access level for user and or user device while utilizing the network. An access level may correspond to actions that user device may perform while connected to the network. For example an access level may correspond to data usage rights levels or amounts that user device may perform while connected to the network such as bandwidth usage data transfer speeds etc. Additionally an access level for user and or user device may correspond to a security clearance such as actions processes and features user may utilize while connected to the network. Further the access level may determine what other devices databases and or servers connected to the network that user device may access and or utilize. For example media playback devices may be connected to a network within a conference room and may be accessible to user with an access right corresponding to meeting leader while meeting attendees are prevented from accessing the media playback device through their respective access levels.

An access level for user and or user device may be determined by network access application utilizing user accounts and or information stored in database as previously discussed. In certain embodiments a user account e.g. a loyalty account a rewards account a payment account a business account an email account a security account etc. may determine the access level by having a pre set access level for the user account. A loyalty rewards account may have an access level based on the preferred customer or loyal customer status. The access level may depend on the level of preferred loyal customer such as a high access level for frequent shoppers or shoppers who spend a lot of money with a merchant. The high access level may provide additional benefits such as use of a private network for sales or higher data speeds. Conversely new customers or infrequent customers may have a low access level or may be given an access level that incentivizes the customer to shop more frequently at the merchant e.g. a private network that provides sales to new customers . The access level may be defined by user purchases receipts and or transaction histories in a loyalty rewards payment account. Thus as user accumulates more rewards spends more money and or generates more purchases user may accrue a high access level and more usage of the protected wireless network offered by network access application . In other embodiments the access level set in the user account may be established by an administrator utilizing administrative device such as when a business or email account is established by user . The access level may also correspond to a security clearance set by the administrator enabling user to perform more or less actions while connected to the network.

The access level may also be established by an administrator using administrative device prior to or when user device requests to access a protected wireless network provided by network access device . Thus the access level may be set and or adjusted by the administrator and stored to database for use with user device . The administrator may set and or adjust the access level based on actions by user such as purchases at a merchant location presentations by user data usage by user Internet usage by user etc. For example if user is requesting additional usage rights in order to complete a presentation e.g. utilize a media display device the access level for user may be set or adjusted accordingly.

Based on the access level a different credential may be provided to user device for connecting to the protected wireless network provided by network access device . For example network access application may provide a first credential to user device that provides limit usage of the network by user device based on a first access level. However if user device qualifies for a second access level e.g. through additional purchases higher security rating etc. then a second credential may be provided to user device . The second credential may enable expanded or additional usage of the network. In various embodiments network access device may provide a plurality of protected wireless networks or a plurality of network access devices may provide the plurality of protected wireless networks. In such embodiments each network may require a credential to utilize the network and may provide various different usage rates security attached device etc. Thus network access application may transmit a credential to user device for the network of the plurality of network matching the access level. In still other embodiments network access application may configure the usage rights and abilities of user device with respect to the access level when or after user device connects to the network. In such embodiments only one credential may be provided to user device and the access level may determine the usage rights and abilities defined for user device when user device connects to the network.

Location applications may include applications for use with location . In various embodiments location application may correspond to merchant applications which may provide information for available items and or services to user complete purchases of items and or services by user generate receipts and transaction histories for user and or provide loyalty account services and benefits to user . Location applications may therefore provide a convenient interface to permit the merchant to view selected item service information and complete a transaction for the items services. Once the transaction is approved location applications may be utilized to request and process a payment for the items service for example using payment provider server . Additionally location applications may be utilized to establish and maintain a loyalty account for user . Loyalty accounts may include benefits and or rewards for user based on user s past transactions with the merchant corresponding to location administrative device . Information from merchant applications in location applications may be utilized to determine an access right and or an access level for user user device .

In other embodiments location applications may correspond to applications offered by a business such as private network applications email applications and other similar business applications. Such business applications may be utilized to establish a user account for user determine a security clearance for user establish and assist meetings and conferences by user etc. Business applications may similarly be utilized to determine an access right and or access level for user user device .

Administrative device includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to administrative device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. In various embodiments other applications may include financial applications such as banking online payments money transfer or other applications that may be utilized to process payments. Other applications may include applications utilized by devices connected to a protected wireless network provided by network access device such as security application media playback application and or other networked or downloadable applications. Other applications may contain other software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to the user.

Administrative device may further include database which may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with network access application location applications and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of administrative device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for payment user device authentication or identification. In one embodiment identifiers in database may be used to associate administrative device with a particular account. Database may also store user s information including check in information an identifier etc. for user and or user device . Database may include user accounts e.g. loyalty account payment accounts etc. and or receipts for purchases by user and transaction histories for purchased items by user that may be utilized to determine an access right and or access level for user user device . Information in database may also include business information such as user accounts and or pre set access rights levels which may also be utilized to determine an access right and or access level for user user device .

Administrative device includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with user device wireless beacon and or network access device . In various embodiments communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may communicate directly with wireless beacon using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks. Thus network may correspond to small scale communication networks such as a private or local area network or a larger scale network such as a wide area network or the Internet accessible by the various components of system .

Environment includes a location corresponding generally to location of such as a conference room of an office or other location. An administrator is utilizing administrative device to enter process and or determine access rights and or access levels for user and . As users and enter location user devices and may receive a communication from wireless beacon . As previous discussed communication may correspond to a request to connect with user devices and . Communication may further include a request to complete a check in for users and using user devices and respectively. After receiving communication user devices and may connect to wireless beacon and transmit an identifier and or check in information to wireless beacon . In turn administrative device may receive the identifiers check in information for users and or user devices and determine access rights for users and or user devices 

As previously discussed administrator and or administrative device may determine access rights for users and or user devices utilizing information entered by administrator and or user accounts for users and . For example administrator may view on administrative device that user devices and have connected to wireless beacon and are requesting to access a protected wireless network provided by network access device . Thus administrator may configure access rights for user devices and or administrative device may determine the access rights using stored data. The access right for user device may be different from the access right for user device . For example user may correspond to a leader of a presentation in location that may require access to protected wireless network in order to give the presentation. Therefore the access right for user may entitle user device to receive a credential to access protected wireless network . However administrator may wish that user an attendee and viewing of the presentation does not utilize user device to browse the Internet or access protected wireless network . Thus the access right for user may prevent user from receiving the credential for protected wireless network . In other embodiments user may be given access to protected wireless network but may be restricted by their actions while user device is connected to protected wireless network as will be explained in more detail below.

Moreover an access level for user devices and may be determined and utilized to determine usage rights levels and limits while user devices and are connected to protected wireless network . As in the previous example user may correspond to a presenter during a conference or presentation and may require usage of media display devices connected to protected wireless network . Thus the access level set for user device may give user access rights to connected media display and or playback devices. However since user is only a viewer of the presentation user device may be prevented from access to the same media devices if user is given a credential to access protected wireless network through their access right. Moreover user device may be prevented from other disruptive actions such as Internet browsing and or streaming media playback while connected to protected wireless network .

User device displays a check in application interface corresponding generally to an interface displaying the executed processes and features of check in application of . As previously discussed user device may provide administrative device with information used to determine an access right and or access level for user device and or the user of user device . Prior to transmitting the information to administrative device check in application interface may request user approval to transmit the information. Thus check in application interface includes an access wireless network request login information and an access right received from administrative device . Access wireless network request may correspond to a button or option that the user of user device may select to initiate a request to access a protected wireless network offered by network access route . Thus selection of access wireless network may cause information for the user to be second to wireless beacon . Moreover prior to transmitting the information check in application interface may require login to be completed to verify the identity and authenticity of the user.

Administrative device includes a network access application and a merchant sales application corresponding generally to a part or all of the described features and process of network access application and location applications respectively of . Network access application includes user information that contains identification information e.g. check in information and or an identifier used to determine access rights and or access levels for the user of user device . In this regard user information includes user A check in information user access right and level user data transfer information and user access credential . In other embodiments user information may include further information data rights and or levels.

User A check in information may correspond to check in information and or identifiers used by network access application to determine user access right and level . Thus after receiving user A check in information network access application may determine user access right and level such as a right to access a protected wireless network offered by network access device . In this regard user access right and level includes a security clearance e.g. a right to utilize the network actions enabled on the network and or devices accessible while connected to the network loyalty rewards e.g. benefits in a loyalty or rewards account and transaction history e.g. receipts purchases sales etc. by the user of user device . Moreover user access right and level may include user access level such as usage limits while connected to the network. The access level may be determined using security clearance loyalty rewards and or transaction history . Such information may be received from merchant sales application such as sales information and loyalty accounts .

Once user device is determined to have an access right to the network network access application may transfer user access credential to user device to connect to the network provided by network access device . Thus check in application interface may display to the user that the user has an access right to utilize the network. However user access credential may still be hidden or obfuscated in access right to prevent unauthorized usage of the network.

At step a user device is determined to be in proximity to a network access device based on a connection between the user device and a wireless beacon corresponding to the network access device wherein the network access device provides a protected wireless network requiring a credential to access the protected wireless network. The connection between the user device and the wireless beacon may use one of near field communication radio communication infrared communication Bluetooth communication Bluetooth low energy communication LTE Direct communication and WiFi communication. Moreover the protected wireless network may comprise or include at least one of a secure media playback device a wireless internet router and a secure private computer network.

A determination as to whether the user device is entitled to access the protected wireless network is performed at step using an access right for the user device. In various embodiments an access level to the protected wireless network may be determined using the connection or the access right. If check in information is generated during the connection the check in information may determine the access level a security level a loyalty rewards account or other information indicative of an access level for the user device. The access level may determine a data transfer bandwidth data transfer amount or data transfer speed during use of the protected wireless network by the user device. In other embodiments the access level may determine a security level or security clearance during use of the protected wireless network by the user device. Additionally a loyalty account with a merchant by a user of the user device may comprise or include the access level wherein the loyalty account further comprises benefits with the merchant that determine the access level. The loyalty account may further include a transaction history with the merchant by the user that further determines the access level by determining the benefits extended to the user.

In various embodiments a security rating may also be determined using the connection check in information identifier or other information for the user device and or a user of the user device. The security rating may comprise or include the access right to utilize the protected wireless network. A rewards account may also include the access right to utilize the protected wireless network or purchases by the user may determine the access right such as purchases with a merchant offering the protected wireless network. The first access right may also be determined using an amount of time the user device is connected to the wireless beacon.

At step the credential to access the protected wireless network is provided to the user based on the access right. The credential may be removed from the user device when the user device ends the connection with the wireless beacon or when the user device disconnects from the protected wireless network. Additionally a transaction history documenting purchases by a user of the user device with a merchant may be received. A second access right to utilize the protected wireless network may be determined wherein the second access right comprises a second credential that provides upgraded use of the protected wireless network over the first access right. The second credential may be provided to the user device. In other embodiments the access level of the user device may be upgraded instead.

A unique identifier used to identify the user device on the protected wireless network may be determined. The unique identifier may be utilized with received receipts and or transaction histories when storing the receipts transaction histories for later use in determining access rights and or access levels. Moreover a loyalty account for a user of the user device may be determined using the unique identifier where the loyalty account stores the receipt transaction histories and or user shopping actions with a merchant by the user.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons image or links and or moving one or more images etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device service device or a service provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. One or more processors which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor s may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor s and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor s for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various embodiments non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

