---

title: Identity verification services using private data
abstract: A method includes receiving a request, from a client, to verify that an operator of the client is a purported individual. The request includes a personal identifier associated with the purported individual. The personal identifier corresponds to an account established by the purported individual. The account is provided by a cloud service provider. The method also includes transmitting the personal identifier to the cloud service provider. The method further includes, in response to transmitting the personal identifier, receiving private data indicative of the purported individual's usage of the account. The method still further includes creating an identity assessment based on the private data; The method even further includes receiving an evaluation of the identity assessment from the operator of the client. The method additionally includes determining, based on the evaluation of the identity assessment, whether the operator of the client is the purported individual.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09590969&OS=09590969&RS=09590969
owner: CA, Inc.
number: 09590969
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140313
---
The disclosure relates generally to identity verification services and more specifically to identity verification services using private data.

According to one embodiment of the disclosure a method includes receiving a request from a client to verify that an operator of the client is a purported individual. The request includes a personal identifier associated with the purported individual. The personal identifier corresponds to an account established by the purported individual. The account is provided by a cloud service provider. The method also includes transmitting the personal identifier to the cloud service provider. The method further includes in response to transmitting the personal identifier receiving private data indicative of the purported individual s usage of the account. The method still further includes creating an identity assessment based on the private data The method even further includes receiving an evaluation of the identity assessment from the operator of the client. The method additionally includes determining based on the evaluation of the identity assessment whether the operator of the client is the purported individual.

Other features and advantages of the present disclosure are apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art in view of the following detailed description of the disclosure and the accompanying drawings.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present disclosure may be illustrated and described herein in any of a number of patentable classes or context including any new and useful process machine manufacture or composition of matter or any new and useful improvement thereof. Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented entirely in hardware entirely in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. or combining software and hardware implementation that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module component or system. Furthermore aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable media having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable media may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an appropriate optical fiber with a repeater a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Program code embodied on a computer readable signal medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present disclosure may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as JAVA SCALA SMALLTALK EIFFEL JADE EMERALD C C VB.NET PYTHON or the like conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language VISUAL BASIC FORTRAN 2003 Perl COBOL 2002 PHP ABAP dynamic programming languages such as PYTHON RUBY and Groovy or other programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider or in a cloud computing environment or offered as a service such as a Software as a Service SaaS .

Aspects of the present disclosure are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatuses systems and computer program products according to aspects of the disclosure. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable instruction execution apparatus create a mechanism for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that when executed can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions when stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which when executed cause a computer to implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable instruction execution apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatuses or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Cloud service providers may maintain extensive archives of private data regarding personal preferences interests and personal service histories of their users. These archives may be kept as a routine part of the service provider s business. For example a movie streaming service may maintain a list of movies the user has watched. The user may rate movies he she watches. Service providers may use this data to make assumptions about user preferences.

These data archives are unique because generally this type of private data is not digitized. Using the above example if a user were to purchase physical digital video discs DVD and view them using a traditional DVD player no digital archive listing movie preferences or reviews is automatically generated.

This data is uniquely private in that it is difficult for identity thieves to steal. Again using the above example for an identity thief to steal a user s movie preferences the identity thief may have to spy on the user or continuously monitor movie streaming traffic into the user s home. Identity thieves may be unlikely to undertake such measures when simply stealing a social security number and a name may provide enough information to deceive existing identity verification systems.

This data may also be difficult for identity thieves to ascertain because it results from analysis of records that accrue over time. Thus the answer to a verification question formulated using this type of data may not be stored in one specific place. The data may not be a single modular piece of data. For example music listening habits of a user may be collected over time and recorded by a music streaming service. Generalizations may be made about the user s listening habits based on these records. These generalizations may be used to generate identity verification questions. However for an identity thief to obtain the answer to such questions the identity thief would require possession and or access to all the records from the music streaming service for that user.

The teachings of the present disclosure may utilize this unique private data to verify the purported identity of online users of various services. For example a user attempting to obtain a credit report may be asked a series of questions regarding their use of various cloud services in order to verify their identity and obtain the credit report.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure may improve upon existing identity verification systems because private data is used to verify identity. For example existing identity verification systems may use mainly public data available via public records and services. Such services may not be secure because a hacker or identity thief may have access to the same public records and services that are used to gather this public identity information.

With reference to a block diagram of a system for identity verification services using private data is illustrated in accordance with a non limiting embodiment of the present disclosure. System includes a server cloud service provider client and laptop . System also includes an operator or user and an individual . Server contains memory interface hard disk processor and input output . Processor may load instructions from hard disk into memory and run verification process in memory using those instructions. Interface may connect server to network . Public record database cloud service provider client and laptop may all be connected via network . Verification process may use private data provided by cloud service provider to verify a purported identity of operator using client .

In certain embodiments individual uses laptop to use services provided by cloud service provider . Cloud service provider may maintain an archive or database of user data regarding individual . For example cloud service provider may maintain a list of times that individual uses cloud service provider services. As another example cloud service provider may maintain a list of details relating to the user s use of services provided by cloud service provider .

In certain embodiments cloud service provider collects data about the user s use of cloud services for several days months and or years. Over time cloud service provider may retain enough information to make generalizations about a particular user s preferences based on their previous usage. For example a user using a music streaming service may listen to a particular artist more than any other artist. Cloud service provider may determine that to be the user s favorite artist.

Cloud service provider may make such generalizations about a user s preferences without ever asking the user about their preferences. The generalizations may be apparent merely by analyzing the user s usage habits. Behavioral analysis may be used to learn things about the user that the user may not have explicitly revealed.

In certain embodiments cloud service provider collects specific details about a user s usage. For example a computer back up service that runs a weekly backup of a user s computer may be able to determine recently edited documents and or recently created documents on the user s hard drive based on the most recent backups.

The cloud back up service may have unique access to data otherwise not known and or not knowable by anyone without direct access to the user s system. This data may exist in only the user s system and in the back up copy of the user s system in the cloud provider s network. Thus identity questions that the user should be able to answer may be generated by analyzing local user system content.

As In certain embodiments identity verification questions may be generated by leveraging information that the user would not necessarily know offhand. The user may be able to look for such information to determine the correct response after the question is asked. The user may find such information by searching system files on his local system.

For example an identity verification question may refer the user to a particular operating system folder on the user s home system. Such folders are often full of many complex folders libraries and executables. The identity verification question may ask the user to type in the name of a particular operating system folder. As another example the identity verification question may ask the user to type in the name of the first file in a series of alphabetically listed files in the folder. As another example the identity verification question may ask the user to type in the first line of text from some specific file on the user s system.

The processes described in the present disclosure may be automated by a program. For example in the above example where system information is requested from the user s home system software may automatically collect the detailed information requested by the identity verification question.

In certain embodiments the processes described in accordance with the present disclosure may also be used for device authentication in addition to user authentication.

In certain embodiments verification process may access private information about individual from cloud service provider . For example verification process may access private usage records regarding individual s use of services provided by cloud service provider . This private data may then be used to verify the identity of operator .

In certain embodiments operator uses client to establish an account with a business. For example operator may use client to obtain a credit card from a bank. The bank may require verification of the identity of operator before securing a line of credit for the online operator . Operator may use a web browser on client to access a website of the bank.

In this example the bank website may prompt operator to enter personally identifiable information. For example operator may enter information that identifies individual . In this example operator and individual may be the same person. Operator may enter information such as the name social security number email address and phone number of individual . In certain embodiments this information may be personally identifiable information. The information may be private and may uniquely identify individual . In certain embodiments individual may be the purported individual because operator may purport to be individual . Operator may represent him herself as individual to a website to obtain services on behalf of himself herself.

In certain embodiments operator may be an identity thief. For example operator may pose as individual for purposes of exploiting commercial services using individual s identity. In these embodiments operator may purport to be individual . Operator may represent him herself as individual to a website to exploit the identity of individual .

In certain embodiments the web site may receive personally identifiable information from client and may use verification process on server to verify the identity of operator . For example a web server may host the web site and may communicate with verification process on server via network . Verification process may be a verification service and may accept requests from various clients requesting verification services. In certain embodiments server is a web server and hosts the website. The website hosting process may then directly communicate with verification process within server .

In certain embodiments only parts of the personally identifiable information may be utilized by verification process to retrieve private data from cloud service provider . Certain aspects components or parts of the information may be extracted from the personally identifiable information by verification process . For example the last four digits of the social security number may be extracted along with the full name and email address received by verification process . This subset of personally identifiable information may be sufficient to allow cloud service provider to identify service account and or usage records of the user for retrieval. Verification process may specify a certain set of identifiable information that may be required in order to complete verification services.

In certain embodiments verification process may send cloud service provider a personal identifier. The personal identifier may include any combination of personally identifiable information of individual that cloud service provider needs to find account or service records for individual .

Cloud service provider may respond to verification process with a set of data. The data may include any information regarding individual acquired from his her use of cloud service provider services. Verification process receives this data and may process the data in order to create an identity assessment and or test to present to operator via client . For example verification process may generalize the private data received from cloud service provider in order to draw conclusions about preferences or personal historical use of services by individual .

In certain embodiments cloud service provider may feed identity verification questions back to server . Server may then present these questions to the user. The user may answer the questions and server may route the answers back to cloud service provider for verification.

In certain embodiments the webpage may be redirected to cloud service provider for presentation of one or more identity verification questions. For example cloud service provider may host a website for presenting identity verification questions to the user via client . Cloud service provider may conduct the identity verification process directly with the user and send the results back to server .

Methods of identity verification that encapsulate identity verification question generation procedures within a cloud service provider may prevent sensitive user data from being exposed outside the cloud provider.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand the various possible configurations of the elements of system . For example verification process may be running in one or more elements of system such as cloud service provider .

Assessments and or tests based on this type of data may be easy for operator to answer because the generalizations may be based on the usage history of individual . However if operator is an identity thief who is impersonating individual these generalizations would require knowledge of individual s usage history of services provided by cloud service provider .

Operator may evaluate and or answer the assessment and may submit the evaluation to verification process via a web form web page post back or similar data transfer from client to the host server. Verification process may verify the purported identity of operator based on operator s evaluation of the assessment. For example if operator was able to answer a series of questions correct regarding the service usage history of individual verification process may verify operator and communicate verification to a requesting process or server.

In certain embodiments verification process may use the methods described in the teachings of the present disclosure in connection with and or in addition to other verification methods. For example verification process may obtain public data about individual from public record database A. Verification process may incorporate this public data into any assessments and may use this public data in verifying operator identity.

With reference to a flowchart for identity verification services using private data is illustrated in accordance with a non limiting embodiment of the present disclosure. At step a request to verify the identity of an operator is received. In certain embodiments the operator may be attempting to verify his her own identity. In certain embodiments the operator may be attempting to pose as another individual. The teachings of the present disclosure utilize private data to determine when each scenario exists and deny access to the operator in the latter case.

In certain embodiments a cloud service provider may have records relating to the usage of a service by a particular user. The operator may submit along with the request personally identifiable information such as an email dress full name or social security number. Other examples of personally identifiable information may include a residence address employer phone number or the like. The personally identifiable information may enable the cloud service provider to identify an account held by the individual whose personally identifiable information was supplied.

At step a personal identifier is transmitted to a cloud service provider. The cloud service provider may gather information relating to the personal identifier such as data relating to an account of an individual identified by the personal identifier. In certain embodiments cloud service provider transmits this information back to the verifying process such as verification process from .

In certain embodiments the user s identity may be established without transmitting the personal identifier to the cloud service provider. For example a series of questions presented to the user may provide the cloud service provider with enough information to verify the user s identity. Each question may eliminate a subset of service subscribers until one or more users remain. If the user is part of the one or more users the user s identity may be verified. For example the user may be asked about music preferences until a small subset of users remains or only one user remains. As another example the user may be asked about data from a backup of the user s system until the cloud service provider is able to uniquely identify a person a subset of persons a specific device or a subset of specific devices.

At step private data is received from the cloud service provider. This information may be private because it is not readily accessible. Thus the private data collected from cloud service providers may be more secure and may provide a better source of assessment data than publicly available information such as information available via public records databases.

In certain embodiments the private data received from the cloud service provider may be analyzed. For example generalizations may be made about the individual whose personally identifiable information was supplied. For example based on service usage history a variety of generalizations may be made about the preferences of the individual. These generalizations may be incorporated into an identity assessment for testing the operator who requested the identity verification process. The identity of the operator may then be determined and or verified based on his her responses to the assessment.

Generalizations may also be made based on the type of service provided by the cloud service provider. The data analysis may vary based on the type of service provided and the assessment may further vary based on what type of service is provided. For example if the cloud service provider provides a movie streaming service questions relating to actors actresses genres of movies and frequency of movie viewing may be prepared for use on the assessment. Different questions may be prepared if the cloud service provider provides a different service.

At step an identity assessment is created using the private data. For example the generalizations described above may be used to create an assessment. The assessment may be in a variety of forms. For example the assessment may take the form of a series of multiple choice questions. As another example the assessment may be a fill in the blank check the box or true false assessment. One sample assessment might ask the user to identify the names of several actors in a movie that he or she recently streamed. Such a question may provide the operator with a large yet closed set of possible answers. Thus it is likely that the operator will be able to answer the question correctly simply based on his or her own experience using the service.

Similarly if the operator is unable to answer the question correctly it is more likely that the operator is not the individual whose personally identifiable information was provided.

In certain embodiments the assessment may contain questions relating to public information as well. However an identity thief may have access to the services and databases that make such information available. Thus evaluations containing correct answers to questions regarding public data and incorrect answers to questions regarding private data may raise suspicions and or alerts about the operator.

At step evaluation of the identity assessment is received from the operator. In certain embodiments the operator or user may answer questions via a web form on a web site and submit answers. The evaluation may include answering the questions presented as part of the identity assessment.

At step the system determines whether the operator that requested identity verification is the individual identified by the personally identifiable information that was submitted. If the system determines that based on the operator s evaluation of the presented identity assessment the operator is not the purported individual the system may reject the identity verification request and may redirect the operator via a web browser to the host site. Further action may be taken by the host site that requested the identity verification for the operator based on the rejected identity verification response. For example the operator may be banned from accessing the identity verification process for an hour.

In certain embodiments if the system verifies the identity of the operator the verification may be communicated to the host site and the user may be permitted to take further actions in accordance with that site s policies. For example the operator may be permitted to create an account on the host site after successful completion of the identity verification process.

With reference to a sequence diagram of an example system for providing identity verification services using private data is illustrated in accordance with a non limiting embodiment of the present disclosure. Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand that operator may be accessing services on a host web site. The host web site may communicate with verification process for identity verification services. Verification process may send operator content directly or may relay data to the host web site to present to the user. For example assessments may be presented by verification process directly to operator . As another example verification process may send assessment data to the host web site for rendering and presentation to the user. Answers or evaluations of the assessment may then be transmitted back to verification process .

Private data from service providers referred to in the present disclosure may be more private and thus more secure than other forms of private personally identifiable information. Although this private data may be sold to advertisers the information may be anonymized before sale to an outside vendor. For example personally identifiable information may be scrubbed from this information before being sold meaning that the purchaser of this information may only receive demographic information without the full individual service history of the user. As another example a movie streaming cloud service provider may sell demographic information regarding the viewing habits of viewers in a particular age range. The precise viewing habits of any particular user however may not be determinable based on the demographic information provided by the service provider. Thus user specific personal preference interest and personal service history may be kept private even when this information is exploited by the service provider for advertising purposes.

In certain embodiments of the present disclosure private information archived by cloud service providers may be used to authenticate and or verify the identity of a user. For example a service provider may make private information regarding the personal service history of a user available. In this example the private information may allow trusted sites that require or secondary authentication procedures to verify a user using their personal service history.

While users of any online service may be particularly sensitive to public uses of their data the use of the private data for identity verification purposes may not upset the sensibilities of privacy minded users. For example users of online services may object to the use of their private information for certain purposes. For example if a cloud service provider sells users personal service history to a marketing company users may be offended and lose confidence in the service. Users may further alter their usage habits or find an alternate source for the provided service. However using private information for identity verification purposes may be less likely to offend these sensibilities because the private data is not being used to make money. Rather this private data may be used to verify the user s own identity and thus provide a valuable service for them.

Online identity verification systems may generally be classified in several categories. In one type of identity verification system pre determined verification mechanisms may be established when the user initially registers for an account. For example when registering a bank account for online access the bank may ask questions using data that the user provided when the account was originally opened. The user can confirm ownership of the account by providing answers to these previously answered questions. However such data may not be available when the user and the account provider organization have no pre existing relationship.

In another type of identity verification systems public information databases may be accessed to create a personal public data profile. For example when obtaining a credit score a user may be prompted with questions regarding their credit history driver s license real estate transactions and tax history.

Recently social media sites may use personal information collected from the user s profile to verify identity. For example a search application programming interface API may be used to collect data regarding their recent history on the site such as new friends of the user or other online relationships and interactions of the user.

The above described data sources may be public in nature. As used in the present disclosure public data may refer to data that is widely available to a large number of people. For example credit histories can be purchased by any investigating organization such an apartment leasing office. Thus this type of data may be accessible to anyone.

Many other data sources are matters of public record. Thus hackers or phishers may create the appearance of a secure environment by presenting publicly available information. These same actors may also use this information to break into a secure system by posing as the user.

As a result of the availability of the above described personal information the data is less secure and thus less useful in establishing and confirming an identity of a user. For example a hacker may be able to obtain publicly available information for a user from these sources. Such information may be sufficient to spoof a user s identity enabling the hacker to access the user s account.

In certain embodiments data may be generated by a user that uses cloud services. The data may be indicative of how the user uses the cloud services. For example the data may be indicative of preferences recent account activity or recent transactions that occurred in the user s account. Such data may be private between the user and the service provider. Such data may also include data from the user s system such as data from an automated back up service. This data may be used in identity verification to produce private data that attackers may not have access to.

In certain embodiments cloud services may have API s that may allow access to such data. For example a service provider that provides access to streaming movies may support an API that queries endpoints exposing information about a user s viewing preferences. This information may be used by other businesses to confirm the identity of the user.

For example a user uses an online backup system for his home personal computer. During an account verification procedure the user may be asked to identify four files from the user s documents folder. Such information may be made available by the online backup service provider and may be based on the most recent backup of the user s documents folder.

As another example the user may be asked to identify one of the user s top favorite artists. This information may be obtained by determining the most popular artist in the user s music library by song count. The online backup service provider may have access to this information via a regular backup of the user s music folders. Many other personally identifiable aspects of the user s file structure and the content of the user s backups may be used without departing from the present disclosure.

As another example a user may use an online media service such as NETFLIX and or PANDORA . Such services may enable information to be accessed about a user s usage history and preferences. In certain embodiments an identity verification process may access information about a user s viewing and or listening preferences and determine characterizations based on this information. For example PANDORA may share user station information and the number of songs played on each of the user s stations. Using this information system may determine a favorite genre or artist of the user. System may develop a question or a series of questions about this information.

As another example NETFLIX may provide viewing information for a user such as a list of titles that the user has recently viewed. System may use this information to formulate questions that test the identity of the user. For example a question may include do you prefer dramas comedies or both equally The user may then select the answer based on his personal preference and viewing habits. As another example system may formulate a question including which of the following actors were in a film you viewed recently. 

In certain embodiments system may determine whether not enough user information has been gathered to make an identifiable distinction. For example if a user has only watched a few movies using a movie streaming service the sample set of available information may be too small to determine a distinction in preference.

In certain embodiments when user preferences are not determinable from one service other services may be consulted until personally identifiable information may be determined.

In certain embodiments a user may use an online tax preparation software personal finance software and or personal accounting software. Personally identifiable information may be determined by consulting these service providers as well. For example the user may have purchased a house in the past year. The purchase of the house could be used to verify the identity of the user by for example asking where the property is located.

In certain embodiments user privacy may be a high priority. Users should be consulted to obtain consent and programs using their private information may be conducted on an opt in basis.

In certain embodiments system may assist in identify verification processes conducted over the internet. For example such identity verification processes may be important in a variety of online business processes such as creating accounts and system authentication procedures.

In certain embodiments emerging cloud services may be accessed as data sources for identity verification processes. For example service provider may maintain a large amount of data that may be used to track customer preferences. Such data may be used in house to improve customer service. Such data may also be sold to advertisers so that they may display more relevant ads to each customer based on their preferences.

In certain embodiments such information may be maintained in secure repositories that may not be accessible by the public. Data owners may guard this information because customers may value privacy of their experience with the service provider. For example customers may be upset if they knew the provider was broadcasting their private information in a public manner.

In certain embodiments service providers may set up special databases or views of existing databases that provide system with access to this information. For example a secure repository may be established so that system may access approved customer data.

In certain embodiments system queries a service provider to access background information regarding a client s preferences. For example system may build its own repository of intricate preferences or detailed facts about a customer s online activity. Such information may not offend a user because the information may be relatively innocuous. For example system may query a movie subscription service to determine the last few movies a customer has viewed.

System may maintain a repository of this type of information. System may maintain a service where various businesses may request this type of data.

In certain embodiments the information is queried in real time. For example when a user attempts to create a new account to obtain some sensitive information services may be queried that maintain this personal information so that the user may be authenticated and an account may be created. Such measures may decrease the risk that the sensitive information may fall into unauthorized hands.

In certain embodiments system may provide more security than other personally identifiable information. For example hackers may be more likely to know a birthday or a social security number of a user because these items are so ubiquitously used for a variety of online activities. However the hacker may be less likely to know the last few movies the user has viewed.

Existing identification verification systems may depend on data that the user specifically establishes with the verifying entity. These identification verification systems may also depend on public databases that contain information that is only semi secret. Enhanced use of cloud services for private and unique data may enable use of a larger data set for identity verification. Such data may also be more difficult to spoof attack or determine given the huge amount of online activity and information that is collected about users.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the examples mentioned above are merely for illustrative purposes. Any other use of otherwise private information may be obtained from service providers and used to identify a user without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various aspects of the present disclosure. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular aspects only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of any means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any disclosed structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. The aspects of the disclosure herein were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

