---

title: Systems and methods for hot topic identification and metadata
abstract: According to some embodiments, systems, apparatus, methods and computer program code are provided for receiving data from a plurality of remote data sources, the received data being associated with a plurality of search terms, analyzing the received data to identify at least a first trending search term, comparing the trending search term with a database of topical terms to determine whether the trending search term is relevant to a predetermined topic, querying a content database using the trending search term to identify a caption to be associated with the trending search term, and storing the trending search term and the caption in a database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09378240&OS=09378240&RS=09378240
owner: DISNEY ENTERPRISES, INC.
number: 09378240
owner_city: Burbank
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140702
---
In the past publishers of content and news decided what content to produce and what topics to write about. Consumers of content opted in to receive specific types of content by subscribing to specific publications or sources. For example football fans eagerly awaited the Monday morning paper to read the box scores and recaps of how their favorite team fared the previous day. The Internet has changed that model as readers and consumers of news and information now expect to be able to find the information they wish to consume when they want it.

Social media platforms blogs and other online publications allow news and information to spread rapidly. Consumers of content expect to find information instantly almost in real time. Consumers are less reliant on a single source of information. Now instead of waiting for the newspaper to arrive consumers seek out information from whatever source has it. Football fans don t wait for the Monday morning paper to check the box scores. This change in how information is shared and consumed makes it more difficult for producers of content to quickly identify and publish relevant information that consumers want to read. It also makes it more difficult to retain consumers as consumers go to the sources that have the information they want instead of sticking with a single source.

Many content producers manually monitor trending topics using tools such as Google s Google Trends or the like and search for information that is gaining in popularity. An editor or journalist may monitor this information and then use the trend information to identify topics that should be the subject of a story or article. Unfortunately this process of monitoring and identifying trending topics is manual time consuming and not consistent. A publisher that doesn t react quickly and produce relevant and timely content is going to lose readers.

The problem is made more difficult by the sheer volume of news and newsworthy information available via the Internet. Moreover there are many different types of information sources that may be of interest. As a result monitoring tracking and mining this data can be a time consuming expensive error prone and difficult task. In addition the results of such monitoring can include a confusing amount and array of information that can be difficult to comprehend analyze evaluate correlate and or act upon.

According to some embodiments systems apparatus methods and computer program code are provided for receiving data from a plurality of remote data sources the received data being associated with a plurality of search terms analyzing the received data to identify at least a first trending search term comparing the at least first trending search term with a database of topical terms to determine that the at least first trending search term is relevant to a predetermined topic querying a content database using the at least first trending search term to identify a caption to be associated with the at least first trending search term and storing the at least first trending search term and the caption in a database.

A technical effect of some embodiments of the invention is an improved and automated ability to identify trending topics and provide context to those trending topics. In some embodiments the identified topics and context may be used to identify topics to produce additional or new content. With this and other advantages and features that will become hereinafter apparent a more complete understanding of the nature of the invention can be obtained by referring to the following detailed description and to the drawings appended hereto.

It is desirable to automatically monitor a wide variety of information sources to identify hot topics or topics of interest. It is further desirable to identify hot topics in specific areas of interest e.g such as topics related to sports or financial news etc. as well as to append or associate related context to those hot topics.

Embodiments of the present invention may be used to monitor information data sources including search engines Websites blogs news feeds social media sites or the like. As used herein the term social media may refer to any web site web application online data repository or online media outlet wherein members of the public share and or exchange information with other people. By way of examples only social media data sources might include social networking sites MySpace Facebook Twitter personal and organizational blogs YouTube and other public online collaborative media. The term search engines may refer to any web site web application or online data repository which collects aggregates and categorizes search data across one or more Websites. For example a search engine may include those provided by Google Bing Ask.com or the like. Search engine data may be or include data from data sources such as Google s Google Trends .

To address some of the problems faced by content publishers and creators a data aggregation application and or apparatus may be provided. By way of introduction in some embodiments the data aggregation application and or apparatus referred to herein as a data aggregation platform operates to parse data from a variety of data sources including search engine data social network data internal search data or the like to identify hot topics or information associated with search queries or terms which are occurring with a greater frequency than normal. The parsed data associated with the hot topics may include the search queries or terms as well as information identifying a source of data e.g. such as a URL or other identifier of source or location . The parsed data in some embodiments is compared to a white list or database of acceptable terms to ensure that relevant topics are identified. As used herein the term white list generally refers to a list or register of terms that have been identified as being relevant to a particular topic of interest. The white list of terms may vary from publisher to publisher. For example a sports publication using the system of the present invention might use a white list of data related to sporting events sporting figures and sporting topics while a fashion publication might use a white list of data related to fashion style and fashion related topics.

The parsed data either pre or post white listing may be stored in a relational or other database for further use including use by content producers editors and publishers to identify topics of interest that should be written about. The data may be appended with additional data including a caption and resource link allowing writers editors and publishers to easily flesh out stories and content. In some embodiments the hot topic information may be delivered to specific writers editors or publishers in a variety of ways including in emails through a Web interface or the like. The result is a system and method which allows content producers to not only identify topics of interest but also to create content that has context and relevance. As used herein the term content refers to both written and other content including for example videos podcasts graphics or the like .

Details of some embodiments of the present invention will now be provided by reference to which is a block diagram of a system . Some or all of the components of system may be operated by or on behalf of a content publisher to allow the content publisher to identify hot topics relevant to their publication and audience and to manage the creation of content associated with those topics. In particular a data aggregation tool or platform may receive data or information from a number of remote or local data sources and including for example data associated with social networking sites search engines internal search data and other data sources and operate on the data to identify trending information of potential interest compare the trending information to white list data to remove non relevant terms append caption or other meta data to the trending information and store the trending information and meta data in a data store for use by one or more users operating user devices .

As used herein the trending data or information may be referred to as search terms or trending terms . Topics that are rising in search frequency citations or use may be referred to herein as hot topics . For example the aggregation platform may be used to identify those terms or topics that are being searched for written about or commented on with a greater frequency or velocity than usual. In a typical Internet search a user may enter a search term into a search bar of a search engine. The search engine may track and publish information associated with the frequency with which those terms are being searched or in the case of Google s Google Trends information may be published identifying which terms are trending upward in the number of searches . Such search engine data may be provided to the aggregation platform via an application programming interface API or feed from the search engine. In some embodiments multiple sources of search engine data may be used. For example search engine data may be retrieved from Google Bing and Yahoo or the like.

Social media data may be provided to the aggregation platform via one or more APIs or feeds from one or more social media platforms or aggregators of social media data. For example social media data may include information identifying trending terms or topics from Twitter via the Twitter API or a third party analysis of Twitter data. An illustrative display of data depicting hot topics identified on a social media site are shown in the user interface of . In the user interface of sample trending data from Twitter is shown. As shown a number of trending or hot topics are shown representing terms that are being used at a particular point in time with a high frequency on the Twitter.com social media platform. The data shown in the user interface may be similar to data that is provided to the data aggregation platform via a social media data interface although the data provided to the data aggregation platform is more likely provided in a structured format via an API . As shown a number of terms are trending on Twitter at a particular point in time. Only several of those terms are relevant to a sports news publication e.g. such as the terms TCU and Butler while other terms relate to pop culture or current events. As will be described further below embodiments of the present invention use a white list to identify terms that are relevant to a particular publication or topic area.

Pursuant to some embodiments the aggregation platform may also receive or otherwise process data from one or more internal data sources such as internal search data from searches and queries identified from users interacting with one or more Websites owned or operated by an entity operating or otherwise using the data aggregation platform . For example in the situation where data aggregation platform is operated by a news organization to assist in identifying and selecting topics of interest internal search data from actual search queries experienced by the news organization may be used as an input to the data aggregation platform . The internal search data may be obtained from analytics programs or database programs which capture or log actual query data resulting from user interaction with the news organization s web properties. While this data is referred to herein as internal those skilled in the art will appreciate that the data may be stored elsewhere and may in fact be external to the Websites owned or operated by the publisher. The term internal is used to suggest that the data is data controlled by or more easily accessible to the organization.

An illustrative display of data depicting hot topics identified based on such internal search data is shown in the user interface of . In the user interface of sample trending data from a particular publisher s web properties are shown. The trending data may be identified based on actual search data experienced at or by the web property. The trending data may change on a regular basis and reflects the type of information that users of the web property are actually interested in. The data may be provided to the data aggregation platform in a structured format e.g. via an API feed or the like .

Referring again to in some embodiments other data sources may also be used to provide data aggregation platform with accurate and up to date data and trending topics. For example in some embodiments data may be obtained from data aggregation services which attempt to estimate trends or search data such as for example services such as Compete or the like.

The data aggregation platform collects and analyzes the data received from the various data sources in order to identify hot topics or trending terms or topics. The data aggregation platform may be a server or network of servers or other computing devices which are configured to receive and process data as described herein. In some embodiments data aggregation platform upon receiving data from data sources parses the data for further processing e.g. such as pursuant to the process of described further below . The data aggregation platform may be capable of parsing data in any of a number of different formats including for example data received as XML text HTML or other formats and the data may be received from sources storing or providing the data in structured or unstructured formats such as a relational database NOSQL XML JSON SQL plain text files or the like.

The data aggregation platform may store some or all of the data received from data sources in a database such as data storage device . The data may be stored in a structured or unstructured format such as a relational database NOSQL XML JSON SQL plain text files or the like. In general the data may be stored in any of a number of ways which allows storage capture or use by users or other applications. For example the data may be stored in system memory for use by other applications.

In some embodiments the hot topic data which results from the application of one or more white lists may also be stored in a database such as the data storage device . An illustrated portion of such a database will be described further below in conjunction with . Further in some embodiments additional data providing context to such hot topics may also be identified e.g. from content base and associated with hot topic data. For example a story title an excerpt or description or the like may be retrieved from a content base which may store a library or database of articles stories or other content . In this manner embodiments allow a publisher or other entity to provide context to hot topics or other trending terms allowing writers editors or other publishing staff to accurately and readily understand the context of a particular hot topic. For example if a hot topic is the term Johnny Damon the current context or the story associated with why the term is currently hot may be identified using data from the content base . The reason why the term is hot today may be different than why the term was hot yesterday or some other day. An illustrated portion of such a database will be described further below in conjunction with . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other combinations and types of data may be extracted from created or otherwise provided using features of the present invention.

The data aggregation platform may also exchange or present data to one or more remote user devices . As used herein a device may be remote from the data aggregation platform in that it is physically located distant from the data aggregation platform and or in that it communicates with the data aggregation platform via one or more Internet and or intranet communication networks and or protocols. The data aggregation platform data sources including social media data sources search engine data sources internal search data sources and other data sources user device and other components may then operate in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein. Pursuant to some embodiments the data aggregation platform provides data and information to users operating user devices through a user interface reporting platform which may for example provide user permission and access controls to a variety of different users having different access privileges or permissions. For example a writer may be given different access privileges than an editor allowing different content and information to be presented to users having different functions or responsibilities.

User interface reporting platform may also include a messaging component which allows the transmission of messages alerts or other information to users such as for example writers editors publishers or the like . For example the platform may be configured to transmit instructions to certain classes of users such as writers responsible for a specific topical area alerting the users of trending terms or content that requires their attention. Such alerts and messages may be transmitted to users operating user devices in a wide variety of forms including for example through email Short Message Service SMS text Multimedia Messaging Services MMS instant messaging blog posts Twitter posts and or desktop notification mediums. Moreover the platform may help a user understand different degrees of importance or significance assigned to different hot topics ensuring that hot topics of high importance are addressed more quickly. Such messaging may include details of the hot topic as well as context such as caption data appended to or associated with the hot topic . In this manner embodiments allow teams of people working on a publication to quickly and accurately address hot topics of interest to their content consumers and audience.

Users operating user devices may also be presented with user interfaces such as that shown in where a user interface is shown with data identifying trending terms as well as information about how a specific property ranks for each trending term as compared to one or more competitor sites. By providing such analytic or comparison data a user operating a user device may identify certain trending terms that require additional attention e.g. such as the creation of additional content .

According to some embodiments the data aggregation platform data sources and user device facilitate an automated transfer of information associated hot topics identified by the data aggregation platform allowing users to be presented with information such as alerts about trending topics instructions for writing content about hot topics graphs and charts depicting the trending of the hot topics etc. As used herein the term automated indicates that at least some part of a step associated with a process or service is performed with little or no human intervention. By way of examples only the user devices might be associated with a Personal Computer PC a notebook computer a server an Internet data cloud a workstation and or a Personal Digital Assistant PDA . The data aggregation platform might be associated with for example a server an enterprise application and or one or more databases.

Any of the devices described in connection with the system might according to some embodiments exchange information via a communication network and use specific communication network protocols. As used herein devices including those associated with the data aggregation platform data sources user reporting platform content base white list data storage and user devices may exchange information via any communication network such as a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Wide Area Network WAN a proprietary network a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a Wireless Application Protocol WAP network an Ethernet network a wireless LAN network a mobile cellular network GSM GPRS EDGE etc a WiMAX network a satellite network e.g. CDMA FDMA etc and or an Internet Protocol TCP IP network such as the Internet an intranet an extranet. Note that any devices described herein may communicate via one or more such communication networks.

The devices of might according to some embodiments be accessible via a Graphical User Interface GUI . The GUI might be associated with a data exchange layer application and may be used for example to dynamically display and receive information in connection with external or internal data sources and or a configuration of the data aggregation platform and or the user device .

Although a single data aggregation platform and user device are shown in any number of such devices and systems may be included. Moreover various devices described herein might be combined or co located according to embodiments of the present invention.

The data aggregation platform may include a communication device e.g. a port to receive data from the plurality of data sources and or the user device . The data aggregation platform may further include a processor coupled to the communication device and a storage device in communication with the processor storing instructions adapted to be executed by the processor to perform a method in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein. For example the data aggregation platform may aggregate and or store information that is received from the data sources . The data aggregation platform and or the user interface reporting platform may also receive user selections from the user device e.g. including updates to white list data selections of specific hot topics instructions on establishing alerts or emails of hot topic data etc. and transmit display data to the user device .

At data may be received from one or more data sources the received data being associated with search terms or queries which are trending or which have been identified as having an increase in query frequency. For example the data aggregation platform of may receive query or search data from sources such as Google Facebook Twitter or the like. The query or search data may include terms or queries which are seen as having an increase in frequency. For example data from Twitter may include data from the Twitter API which indicates one or more terms that users are including in their Twitter messages. As an illustrative example during the 2011 NCAA basketball tournament there may be an increase in the number or velocity of Twitter messages including the term Butler or VCU . This data may be received by the data aggregation platform at step . Note that other types of information may also be received such as information identifying the number of queries or terms information associated with a source of each item e.g. such as a URL or reference context information such as for example the full Twitter message or the full search term in the case of information received from a search engine etc or the like. The received data might be associated with formal news sources and publications social media sites search engine queries social network posts social network updates blog entries user comments links or user connections e.g. Facebook friends .

At the received data may be compared to a white list which includes terms or concepts that are considered relevant to the entity operating the system of the present invention. For example if the entity operating the system of the present invention is a sports news publication the white list data may include terms and concepts relating to sports. Processing at includes filtering out terms or data which are not considered relevant for the purposes of the entity operating the system. As a specific illustrative example where the entity is a sports news publication the white list may filter out some fashion related terms such as Armani or Banana Republic while other fashion related terms that are possibly related to sports may be retained such as Nike or Under Armor . Processing at may include other techniques to ensure that non relevant terms are filtered out from further processing. Processing at may further include storing information associated with the trending terms in a database such as data store of . In some embodiments the white list may be at least partially constructed from tags or data associated with a content base such as the content base of . For example when articles or news items are published by a content publisher tags or terms associated with the article or news item may be specified by a writer or programmatically identified to allow categorization and searching of the article or news item. Those tags or terms may be added to the white list allowing the creation and maintenance of an up to date listing of terms associated with a publication.

Processing continues at where the system continues to process those terms that are considered relevant by querying a content base such as the content base of to append caption data to the trending terms. For example the content base may be a content database including articles news stories or other information published by an entity such as the entity operating the system . As a specific illustrative example the content database may be a database of stories or information published or to be published by a sports news publication. The content base may be or include a content management system CMS that stores the news stories and allows them to be viewed over the Internet by readers of the sports news publication. In an illustrative example in which the 2011 NCAA basketball tournament is in process and a trending term is the term VCU score processing at may include querying a content base of current content from a sports news publication database and appending the trending term VCU score with a caption from the sports news publication database such as VCU Upsets Kansas. Move over Butler Virginia Commonwealth is crashing the Final Four. VCU stunned the Jayhawks 71 61 on Sunday. . In this manner embodiments allow trending terms to be given context so that writers editors and other publication staff can use the trending terms and context to develop more detailed stories or articles. The result is an ability to quickly identify terms that consumers are searching for information on provide context and then create improved or new content that matches consumer demand.

Processing continues at where the system stores the trending terms and associated caption data in a data store such as data storage device . The data may be stored in a manner which allows users such as writers editors or other publication staff to easily view the data and use the data as the basis for creating or updating content. In some embodiments the data may be stored in a manner which includes information associated with the velocity or scale of the trend. For example terms which have the greatest demand as measured by the number of queries or instances may be displayed most prominently. Metrics may also be used to weight or otherwise indicate the relative demand for information. In this manner writers editors and other publication staff can make sure that terms having the greatest consumer relevance are given the highest priority. Users such as writers editors or other publication staff may interact with view and use the data by operating user devices such as devices of . In some embodiments alerts via email RSS or the like may also be triggered to ensure that users are informed of certain trending terms or the need to prepare and produce content associated with trending terms. For example a writer assigned to cover a specific topic area may be alerted when a trending term is identified in the topic area.

The processor is also in communication with an input device . The input device may comprise for example a keyboard a mouse or computer media reader. Such an input device may be used for example to enter configuration and or management information about aggregation platform preferences. For example a user or administrator may interact with the input device to input edit or otherwise interact with data such as the white list data used by the aggregation platform . The processor is also in communication with an output device . The output device may comprise for example a display screen or printer. Such an output device may be used for example to provide reports and or display information associated with trending data and information for users such as editors journalists or other content creators.

The processor is also in communication with a storage device . The storage device may comprise any appropriate information storage device including combinations of magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk drives optical storage devices and or semiconductor memory devices such as Random Access Memory RAM devices and Read Only Memory ROM devices. The storage device stores a program for controlling the processor . The processor performs instructions of the program and thereby operates in accordance any embodiments of the present invention described herein. For example the processor may aggregate and or store information that is received from data sources about trending keywords or topics.

As used herein information may be received by or transmitted to for example i the visualization platform apparatus from other devices or ii a software application or module within the data aggregation platform apparatus from another software application module or any other source.

As shown in the storage device also stores the trending topic database . One example of such a database that may be used in connection with the aggregation platform apparatus will now be described in detail with respect to . The illustration and accompanying descriptions of the database presented herein are exemplary and any number of other database arrangements could be employed besides those suggested by the figures. For example different databases associated with different types of trending topic data might be stored at or accessible to the apparatus .

For example in the example data shown in one of the trending topics is Johnny Damon and the site caption associated with the topic is The Red Sox would have liked to add Johnny Damon but they ll carry on. The context or site caption is based on content published by a publisher operating the system of the present invention and is used to ensure that new trending topics are associated with some current context. For example during the course of a baseball season there may be dozens if not hundreds of stories or topics that relate to Johnny Damon. However at a point in time when the term Johnny Damon is a hot topic or trending term it is likely that users are searching for a specific event or news item associated with Mr. Damon. By matching a trending topic with some context such as the most recent story published by the entity operating the system of the present invention embodiments allow additional stories or news items to be generated by a writer who has some context or information about why the term may be trending. Further context is provided by providing a matching story associated with the trending topic. The trending topic database as a result can be used to trigger alerts or messages to editorial staff to ensure that the trending topic is appropriately covered and that the staff knows that the reason why the term Johnny Damon is a hot topic is that it relates to a story about him not rejoining the Red Sox. The editorial staff will also be alerted that content consumers are very interested in this topic as they are searching for the term Johnny Damon on a frequent basis.

The information in the database may be periodically created and updated based on information received from one or more Websites publications or other properties associated with an entity operating the system of the present invention. For example the data in the database may be or include data from a Website operated by news publication or other publisher. In some embodiments the content database may include a number of additional fields not shown which specify further details of each story or item in the database such as for example keywords tags dates or the like. As described above the data in the content database is used in some embodiments to provide additional context to hot topics identified pursuant to the present invention.

As a result of the embodiments described herein a broad capability to interface acquire mine and identify hot topics or trending search terms or query is provided. The platforms and systems described herein may allow a publisher or other entity to automatically identify hot or trending topics search terms or queries append some context to those topics and identify which trending topics are of interest to the audience associated with the publisher or entity.

The following illustrates various additional embodiments of the invention. These do not constitute a definition of all possible embodiments and those skilled in the art will understand that the present invention is applicable to many other embodiments. Further although the following embodiments are briefly described for clarity those skilled in the art will understand how to make any changes if necessary to the above described apparatus and methods to accommodate these and other embodiments and applications.

Although specific hardware and data configurations have been described herein note that any number of other configurations may be provided in accordance with embodiments of the present invention e.g. some of the information associated with the databases and apparatus described herein may be split combined and or handled by external systems .

Applicants have discovered that embodiments described herein may be particularly useful in connection with search engine social networking and other data sources although embodiments may be used in connection other types of information.

The present invention has been described in terms of several embodiments solely for the purpose of illustration. Persons skilled in the art will recognize from this description that the invention is not limited to the embodiments described but may be practiced with modifications and alterations limited only by the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

