---

title: Systems and methods of automating driver actions in a vehicle
abstract: A vehicle automates a driver action by controlling vehicle systems according to a rule. The rule includes a trigger event and an automated action. Rules are created or added for use by a vehicle using applications including user-defined rule applications, automatic rule applications, and network applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09308920&OS=09308920&RS=09308920
owner: GM Global Technology Operations LLC
number: 09308920
owner_city: Detroit
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140205
---
The present disclosure relates generally to systems and methods of automating driver actions in a vehicle.

Vehicle customization is useful for purposes of safety privacy and convenience. However customizing a vehicle according to driver preferences can be difficult. For example creating a level of customization that is useful to a driver can be time consuming and for some types of customization not available for current vehicle systems.

The present technology relates to systems and methods of automating driver actions in a vehicle. A vehicle automates a driver action by controlling vehicle systems according to a rule created by the driver. The rule includes a trigger event and an automated action which follows from it. Rules are created or added for use by a vehicle using applications including user defined rule applications automatic rule applications and network applications.

Other aspects of the present technology will be in part apparent and in part pointed out hereinafter.

The figures are not necessarily to scale and some features may be exaggerated or minimized such as to show details of particular components. In some instances well known components systems materials or methods have not been described in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present disclosure.

As required detailed embodiments of the present disclosure are disclosed herein. The disclosed embodiments are merely examples that may be embodied in various and alternative forms and combinations thereof. As used herein for example exemplary and similar terms refer expansively to embodiments that serve as an illustration specimen model or pattern.

While the present technology is described primarily herein in connection with automobiles the technology is not limited to automobiles. The concepts can be used in a wide variety of applications such as in connection with aircraft marine craft and other vehicles.

The present disclosure describes systems and methods for automating actions that a driver can take while in a vehicle. Actions that a driver can take while in a vehicle include manually controlling vehicle systems manually controlling auxiliary devices e.g. non vehicle systems that are configured to connect to the vehicle and manually configuring vehicle settings e.g. via an on board computing device or auxiliary device to cause an on board computing device to control vehicle systems or auxiliary devices.

As described herein the term driver action refers generally to manual control by hand voice etc. of a vehicle system or of an auxiliary device e.g. non vehicle system that is configured to connect to a vehicle system. For example manual control is a control input e.g. a setting or a value using a control mechanism e.g. button voice switch lever knob voice activated system touch sensitive display of a vehicle system.

The term automated action refers generally to automated control of a vehicle system or automated control of an auxiliary device for example by an on board device according to computer readable instructions. An automated action may be a control input using a command signal that is based on computer readable instructions.

According to an embodiment illustrated in a computer network e.g. a mobile network includes an on board device in a vehicle an auxiliary device and a remote server . The illustrated on board device the remote server and the auxiliary device are connected by a wireless data connection .

The auxiliary device can include any of mobile devices e.g. cellular phones tablets laptop computers desktop computers and other devices that are configured to access and display information e.g. a webpage . For example the auxiliary device is configured to access the Internet over the wireless data connection .

The remote server includes software and computer hardware that respond to requests by the on board device and the auxiliary device e.g. public users via the Internet and provides a service to the on board device and the auxiliary device . The remote server can be run on a dedicated computer or can include a plurality of networked computers.

The wireless data connection is provided for example by radio transceivers in a mobile network or cellular network.

The vehicle also includes vehicle systems and sensors . Certain of the vehicle systems include or are in communication with a control mechanism e.g. a user interface such as a knob switch voice activated system or touch sensitive display of the vehicle that is accessible by a driver of the vehicle . Such vehicle systems can be controlled by driver input actions.

The user interface is connected to or at least in communication with e.g. wirelessly or by wire the on board device and is configured to display information to a user and receive input from a user. The on board device is configured to control the vehicle systems and is configured to receive and analyze signals from the sensors as described in further detail below.

For example the vehicle systems include heating systems air conditioning systems braking systems acceleration systems entertainment or infotainment systems e.g. radio video playing systems navigation systems mirrors e.g. mirror adjustment systems seats e.g. seat adjustment systems window control systems doors e.g. door lock control systems collision avoidance systems traction control systems a horn windshield wiper systems belts and hoses emission system engine engine cooling system exhaust system lighting and wipers starting charging and batteries steering and suspension transmission sensors switches HVAC cameras communication devices e.g. OnStar devices and other wireless communication devices systems that connect to auxiliary devices e.g. bluetooth devices cellular phones cluster center stack head up display HUD speech gestures sound and the like.

The sensors include e.g. environmental sensors that measure data reflecting the environment associated with the vehicle and vehicle system sensors that measure data that reflects the status or performance of the vehicle systems control sensors that measure driver input actions applied using control mechanisms for the vehicle systems and driver state sensors the measure driver state.

For example environmental sensors include temperature sensors traffic sensors road type e.g. highway urban sensors weather e.g. rain sensors occupancy sensors and the like. For example vehicle sensors include gas tank level speed sensors sensors associated with the vehicle systems described above and the like.

Referring to each of the on board device and the auxiliary device includes a computing device . The computing device includes a processor for controlling and or processing data input output data ports and a memory . While the computing devices are referenced by the same numeral in the figures and include the same primary features mentioned they are not in every embodiment identical and so may differ in one or more ways.

The processor could be multiple processors which could include distributed processors or parallel processors in a single machine or multiple machines. The processor could include virtual processor s . The processor could include a state machine application specific integrated circuit ASIC programmable gate array PGA including a Field PGA or state machine. When a processor executes instructions to perform operations this could include the processor performing the operations directly and or facilitating directing or cooperating with another device or component to perform the operations.

The computing device can include a variety of computer readable media including volatile media non volatile media removable media and non removable media. The term computer readable media and variants thereof as used in the specification and claims includes storage media. Storage media includes volatile and or non volatile removable and or non removable media such as for example RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that is configured to be used to store information that can be accessed by the computing device .

While the memory is illustrated as residing proximate the processor it should be understood that at least a portion of the memory can be a remotely accessed storage system for example a server on a communication network e.g. remote server a remote hard disk drive a removable storage medium combinations thereof and the like. Thus any of the data applications and or software described below can be stored within the memory and or accessed via network connections to other data processing systems not shown that may include a local area network LAN a metropolitan area network MAN or a wide area network WAN for example.

The memory includes several categories of software and data used in the computing device including applications a database an operating system and input output device drivers .

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the operating system may be any operating system for use with a data processing system. The input output device drivers may include various routines accessed through the operating system by the applications to communicate with devices and certain memory components. The applications can be stored in the memory and or in a firmware not shown as executable instructions and can be executed by the processor .

The applications include various programs that when executed by the processor implement the various features of the computing device including user defined rule creation applications automatic rule creation applications control applications and network applications each of which is described in further detail below. The applications are stored in the memory and are configured to be executed by the processor .

The applications may be applied to data stored in the database such as that of signals received by the sensors or the user interface e.g. received via the input output data ports along with data received over the wireless data connection . The database represents the static and dynamic data used by the applications the operating system the input output device drivers and other software programs that may reside in the memory .

A profile for a user account is associated with the vehicle and includes a rule which includes an automated action and a trigger event described in further detail below. The profile can include a plurality of rules and each rule can include one or a plurality of automated actions and one or a plurality of trigger events . For simplicity a single rule is described below and the rule includes a single automated action linked to a single trigger event .

Where a rule includes a plurality of trigger events trigger events can be related by conjunction and and disjunction or . For example if two trigger events are related by disjunction a signal that includes data defined by either trigger event will initiate the automated actions of the rule . Alternatively if two trigger events are related by conjunction both trigger events must be present e.g. in the same or different signals to initiate the automated actions of the rule .

The profile is in some embodiments associated with the vehicle and generally a single driver. For example the rule is particular to the vehicle and is stored for use by the vehicle . For example the profile can be stored in the memory or in the database and is accessible by the processor . Alternatively or in addition the profile is stored on the remote server . In a contemplated embodiment relevant features of a profile can be downloaded from an auxiliary device and or remote server to another vehicle to be used by the driver such as a rental car.

The profile can be created for example using the user interface through a web application e.g. web page using the auxiliary device or through a user interface that is accessed through the auxiliary device . For example a master copy of the profile is stored on the remote server and is accessible and editable using the user interface or the auxiliary device . For robustness the on board device can store a copy of the profile in the memory or in the database . More generally the profile can be created accessed edited and copied by any device that provides an Internet connection.

It should be understood that and the description above are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of some embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented. The terminology computer readable media computer readable storage device and variants thereof as used in the specification and claims can include storage media. Storage media can include volatile and or non volatile removable and or non removable media such as for example RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium excluding propagating signals that can be used to store information that can be accessed by the device shown in .

While the description refers to computer readable instructions embodiments of the present disclosure also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software in addition to or instead of computer readable instructions.

While the description includes a general context of computer executable instructions the present disclosure can also be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software. The term application or variants thereof is used expansively herein to include routines program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Applications can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

It should be understood that the steps of methods are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all the steps in an alternative order is possible and is contemplated. The steps have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Steps can be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the appended claims.

It should also be understood that the illustrated methods can be ended at any time. In certain embodiments some or all steps of this process and or substantially equivalent steps are performed by execution of computer readable instructions stored or included on a computer readable medium such as the memory of the computing device described above for example.

According to the user defined rule creation method a user searches for and selects an action icon e.g. which represents the automated action and a trigger icon e.g. which represents the trigger event to create a rule icon e.g. which represents the rule . To facilitate searching for action icons and trigger icons the action icons and trigger icons are in some implementations grouped together in any of a variety of ways for example by vehicle system sensor function relevance similarity other categories alphabetically combinations thereof and the like.

Automated actions that are relevant are for example those that are predicted to be desirable to a specific user. Such predicted automated actions may be based on learning by the on board device for example through historical driver actions. Similarity can be based on commonality between automated actions. Similarity can also be based on commonality between users that are interested in similar kinds of automated actions. For example if user A has automated actions x y z in common with user B and A also has automated action P then B may also want to have automated action P.

The automated actions and trigger events can be grouped in multiple layers. For example automated actions are grouped into narrower subgroups that are grouped into broader groups.

As a scenario for purposes of teaching action icons are placed in one of a plurality subgroups each subgroup being associated with a vehicle system and the subgroups are placed into one of a plurality of groups each group being associated with a general function category. A user can search for an action icon by selecting a general function category then selecting a vehicle system within the selected general function category and then selecting an action icon of the selected vehicle system.

For purposes of teaching trigger icons are placed into one of a plurality of groups including a vehicle group and an environmental group. A user searches for a trigger icon by selecting a vehicle group or an environmental group and then selecting a trigger icon of the selected group.

Selection elements such as drop down menus and the like are used to facilitate selection of groups subgroups and action icons or trigger icons. Although the term icon is used for purposes of teaching more generally an indicator such as a name or icon or the like is used. The indicator represents each item e.g. group subgroup automated action trigger event .

Indicators that are similar may be used in order to facilitate understanding by a user. For example where a sensor measures the performance of a vehicle system a similar indicator e.g. name icon etc. may be used to indicate that a trigger event associated with the sensor for a vehicle system and an automated action associated with the vehicle system are in the same domain. 

Generally the groups and subgroups for the action icons and the groups and subgroups of the trigger icons can be structured in a similar manner to make a search intuitive to a user.

Referring to at the block the user defined rule creation application displays e.g. as a webpage on the auxiliary device or on the user interface a category selection element through which a user can select an action category label . For example the category selection element includes a drop down menu that includes a list of the action category labels .

For example the list of action category labels includes social communication navigation electric heating ventilation air conditioning HVAC lightings music vehicle settings under the hood systems e.g. engine transmission power and the like. These labels are broad categories of vehicle systems or applications that the driver can control with controls in the cabin of the vehicle e.g. the user interface or the auxiliary device .

For example communication includes phone email and text systems navigation includes global positioning system GPS systems electric includes power and charging systems HVAC includes heating fan and air conditioning systems lightings includes dash and overhead lighting systems music includes radio satellite radio applications that stream music over the internet auxiliary device music e.g. applications and music libraries on smartphone systems and vehicle settings includes seat and mirror systems.

The user defined rule creation application receives a selection of a category label and at the block the user defined rule creation application generates and displays a vehicle system selection element through which a user can select a vehicle system icon . For example the vehicle system selection element includes a drop down menu that includes a group of vehicle system icons . The group of vehicle system icons is generated based on the selected category label .

For example expanding on the description above a group of vehicle system icons that is generated based on the category label of communication includes phone email text message and the like.

The user defined rule creation application receives a selection of a vehicle system icon and at the block the user defined rule creation application generates and displays an action selection element through which a user can select an action icon . For example the action selection element includes a drop down menu that includes a group of action icons . The group of action icons is generated based on the selected vehicle system icon .

For example a group of action icons that is generated based on the vehicle system icon of phone includes block phone calls dial phone number of a contact and the like. As an exemplary selection the user selects block phone calls.

As mentioned above driver actions include those that can be performed by a driver using controls in the cabin of the vehicle or an auxiliary device . A more comprehensive list of example action icons includes initiating a phone call blocking phone calls or email or text messages composing and sending an email or text message initiating reading email or text messages searching for directions to a location setting the temperature of the cabin defrosting back window adjusting the lighting of the cabin selecting a radio station adjusting the volume of the radio playing a podcast from a phone adjusting mirror settings adjusting seat settings driving events e.g. stopping for gas excess speed taking a side road use of applications checking email and the like.

At the block the user defined rule creation application displays a category selection element through which a user can select a trigger category label . For example the category selection element includes a drop down menu that includes a list of the trigger category labels . Exemplary trigger category labels include vehicle and environment.

The user defined rule creation application receives a selection of a trigger category label and at the block the user defined rule creation application generates and displays a trigger selection element through which a user can select a trigger icon . For example the trigger selection element includes a drop down menu that includes a group of trigger icons . The group of trigger icons is generated based on the selected trigger category label . Certain groups of trigger icons are further based on selected action icons or selected vehicle system icons .

Exemplary trigger icons that are generated based on an action icon of block phone calls and a trigger category label of vehicle include speed location type of road weather and occupancy.

Trigger events are those which can be found in data measured by the sensors . As mentioned above sensors measure the environment within and outside of the vehicle the status or performance of vehicle systems inputs to a vehicle system using a control mechanism e.g. driver actions and generally signals pertaining to driver state e.g. the behavior and condition of the driver and passengers . Driver state may be directly measured a parameter may be measured and analyzes data to identify a driver state. Driver state e.g. emotional state cognitive state etc. includes behavior e.g. irritation distraction physiology e.g. cognitive overload fatigue and the like that the system can recognize through analysis of measurements of parameters including heart rate driving time steering behavior galvanic skin response Electroencephalography EEG driving behavior speech detection combinations thereof and the like.

In addition a more comprehensive list of trigger icons includes ignition of the car turning the car off being within a distance of a location a type of weather e.g. rain an outside temperature a cabin temperature a speed occupancy of a seat in the cabin weight of occupancy of a seat in the cabin e.g. to identify occupancy and distinguish between a child and adult who is in the cabin e.g. as identified by the presence of auxiliary devices that are specific to a user vehicle state e.g. amount of gas in the tank cabin temperature amount of oil driver state e.g. how long the driver has been driving and how they are driving e.g. erratically general conditions e.g. weather temperature day time driving conditions e.g. road type traffic and the like. For example vehicle state triggers can be associated with a controller area network CAN bus.

The user defined rule creation application receives a selection of a trigger icon and if the trigger icon is configured to be further defined at the block the user defined rule creation application generates and displays a trigger defining element through which a user can more specifically define the trigger icon . For example if the trigger icon is speed the trigger editing element includes a drop down menu that includes a list of speeds. The user selects a speed from the drop down menu to set a speed value. For example the user selects a speed of eighty five kilometers per hour.

At the block the user defined rule creation application displays the action icon and the trigger icon along with a save element . The action icon and the trigger icon are a rule icon . By selecting the save element the rule icon is saved in the form of computer executable instructions as a rule . The action icon is saved as an automated action and the trigger icon is saved as a trigger event . The rule is saved to the profile .

Summarizing the example above the example rule includes an automated action of blocking phone use and a trigger event of speed greater than eighty five kilometers per hour. Another example rule includes an automated action of selecting kids music e.g. genre or folder from a music library and a trigger event of detecting kids are in the back seat e.g. by weight sensors or detection of smartphones . Another example rule includes an automated action of setting a volume level and a trigger event of car starting.

At a block the processor receives and analyzes data representing a signal from a sensor . Generally data representing a plurality of signals measured by sensors is received and analyzed. A trigger event may be associated with the data representing a signal of a specific sensor. For purposes of clarity data representing a single signal from a sensor is described in detail.

At a block if the data representing the signal includes or matches the trigger event of the rule the processor generates a command signal based on the automated action of the rule .

At a block the processor transmits the command signal to the vehicle system that is associated with the automated action and the vehicle system performs the automated action.

At a block the processor accesses data representing signals measured by sensors . For example the data can be received and saved in the memory and accessed from the memory by the processor . In general data representing a signal measured by a sensor that measures an input to a vehicle system using a control mechanism referred to as a set of driver action data is accessed. Also data representing a signal measured by a sensor that measures any of the environment within and outside of the vehicle the status or performance of vehicle systems inputs to a vehicle system using a control mechanism and driver state referred to generally as a set of sensor data is accessed.

Referring to sets of sensor data and sets of driver action data at points in time t are illustrated. For simplicity binary measurements are shown. A measurement is represented by either an empty circle or a filled in circle. In certain embodiments a value that is within a range is represented by a filled in circle and a value that is outside the range is represented by an empty circle.

At a block the processor analyzes the sets of sensor data and the sets of driver action data. Particularly the processor identifies correlations between the sets of sensor data and the sets of driver action data for example at times t where a certain driver action input to a vehicle system using a control mechanism is repeated. The correlation can be determined deterministically or stochastically.

For example methods to determine a correlation include identifying repeated sets e.g. repeated combinations of data points in certain sets of sensor data and certain sets of driver action data . The correlation may be determined within a fixed time frame e.g. x and then y within a space of 2 mins. or with a fixed time gap between them e.g. x and then two seconds later y . Other methods to determine a correlation include identifying that values of a data points in a set of sensor data fall within a certain range of values at times when a data points of a set of driver action data have a certain value e.g. when outside temperature is between fifty six and sixty four degrees air conditioning AC is turned on . In certain values of data points of sets of sensor data are correlated with certain values of data points of set of driver action data as the combinations of values are repeated at different times t. Also certain values of the sets of driver action data are correlated with one another as a certain value of the set of driver action data follows a certain value of the set of driver action data .

At a block when there is a correlation between sensor data and driver action data the processor automatically generates a rule or displays the correlation to the user along with elements that allow the user to save the correlation as a rule or discard the correlation. In the rule generated from a correlation includes an action based on the value of the set of driver action data and a trigger event based on the values of the sets of sensor data .

The automatic rule creation application can also automatically generate a rule based on discovered correlations where signals used in the correlation are similar to other signals. For example if signals a b c are registered as conenditional signals for an action z and if signals a b c are similar to d f g e.g. a to d b to f c to g then the automatic rule creation application may propose that d f g also be registered as conditional signals for an action z. Similarity between signals can be determined by characteristics proximity e.g. nearest neighbor . Similarity between actions may also be detected e.g. if an action z is similar to an action y . In such a case the system can suggest that event y be conditioned on the signals a b c that have been detected as relevant for event z.

The remote server stores a database of rules through which a user can browse. The rules can be added to a user s profile and edited. A user can also add rules to the database from the user s profile .

At a block the network application displays an interface through which a user can enter data to create a profile . For example the data includes rules associated with a vehicle . The profile is saved to the remote server .

At a block the network application displays an interface through which a user can directly connect the user s profile to other user profiles . For example a user can find other user profiles with which to connect through a search function using open application programming interfaces with other social network accounts or email accounts and the like. To create a connection between user profiles a first user sends a request to a second user and if the second user accepts the request a connection is created between the profiles . Referring to connections between profiles are schematically illustrated.

Once connected with another user s profile at a block the network application is configured to display the other user s profile including the rules e.g. using the on board device or the auxiliary device . The network application is configured to receive input from a user to add rules of another user s profile to the user s profile. Referring to arrows illustrate the addition of rules from one profile to another. Once a profile is edited e.g. addition of a rule from another profile the latest version of the profile is synced with the master profile.

At a block the network application suggests rules based on connections to other profiles and other profiles that are like a user.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure are disclosed herein. The disclosed embodiments are merely examples that may be embodied in various and alternative forms and combinations thereof. As used herein for example exemplary and similar terms refer expansively to embodiments that serve as an illustration specimen model or pattern.

The law does not require and it is economically prohibitive to illustrate and teach every possible embodiment of the present claims. Hence the above described embodiments are merely exemplary illustrations of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure.

Variations modifications and combinations may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the scope of the claims. All such variations modifications and combinations are included herein by the scope of this disclosure and the following claims.

