---

title: Server-initiated bandwidth conservation policies
abstract: In one embodiment, a social networking system maintains a moving average of the number of connection problems, including socket timeouts and failed uploads, per client in a geographic area to determine whether the wireless data network serving the geographic area is overloaded. In response to detecting a network overload, the social networking system may transmit an instruction to the clients in the particular geographic area to enter one of a plurality of traffic throttling modes. In particular embodiments, the social networking system maintains a historical log of network overload conditions, and uses the historical log to generate an estimate of the wireless network capacity serving a geographic area. Thus, the social networking system may preemptively transmit instructions to clients to enter a bandwidth-conservation mode when the estimated traffic demand exceeds the estimated capacity for a particular geographic region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591517&OS=09591517&RS=09591517
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09591517
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140711
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 210 953 filed 16 Aug. 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference

The present disclosure relates generally to social networking and mobile devices and in particular embodiments to detecting via a server device whether clients in a particular geographic region are overloading the wireless cellular data network serving the region and issuing an instruction to the clients in the particular region to throttle their upstream traffic to the social networking system.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. The social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include a user s demographic information communication channel information and personal interest. The social networking system may also create and store a record of a user s relationship with other users in the social networking system e.g. social graph as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing or instant messaging to facilitate social interaction between users in the social networking system. The social networking system may generate a webpage or a newsfeed for a particular user comprising the recent activities of the user s first degree connections on the social network. Users utilizing mobile devices having data connections to the social networking system may upload photos or perform actions remotely that appear on his or her news feed when the content is completely uploaded to the social networking system.

Particular embodiments relate to a social networking system that includes features directed detecting via one or more servers of the social networking system whether clients in a particular geographic region are or will overload the wireless cellular data network servicing the geographic region and transmitting an instruction to the clients in the geographic region to throttle their own upstream traffic to the social networking system. In particular embodiments throttling traffic may comprise queuing content for transmission to the social networking system on the client side device. These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

The invention is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. Typically to become a registered user of a social networking system an entity either human or non human registers for an account with the social networking system. Thereafter the registered user may log into the social networking system via an account by providing for example a correct login ID or username and password. As used herein a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment.

When a user registers for an account with a social networking system the social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include information provided by the user and information gathered by various systems including the social networking system relating to activities or actions of the user. For example the user may provide his name profile picture contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment education background preferences interests and other demographical information to be included in his user profile. The user may identify other users of the social networking system that the user considers to be his friends. A list of the user s friends or first degree contacts may be included in the user s profile. Connections in social networking systems may be in both directions or may be in just one direction. For example if Bob and Joe are both users and connect with each another Bob and Joe are each connections of the other. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Sam to view Sam s posted content items but Sam does not choose to connect to Bob a one way connection may be formed where Sam is Bob s connection but Bob is not Sam s connection. Some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections e.g. friends of friends . Connections may be added explicitly by a user for example the user selecting a particular other user to be a friend or automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . The user may identify or bookmark websites or web pages he visits frequently and these websites or web pages may be included in the user s profile.

The user may provide information relating to various aspects of the user such as contact information and interests at the time the user registers for an account or at a later time. The user may also update his or her profile information at any time. For example when the user moves or changes a phone number he may update his contact information. Additionally the user s interests may change as time passes and the user may update his interests in his profile from time to time. A user s activities on the social networking system such as frequency of accessing particular information on the system may also provide information that may be included in the user s profile. Again such information may be updated from time to time to reflect the user s most recent activities. Still further other users or so called friends or contacts of the user may also perform activities that affect or cause updates to a user s profile. For example a contact may add the user as a friend or remove the user as a friend . A contact may also write messages to the user s profile pages typically known as wall posts. A user may also input status messages that get posted to the user s profile page.

A social network system may maintain social graph information which can generally model the relationships among groups of individuals and may include relationships ranging from casual acquaintances to close familial bonds. A social network may be represented using a graph structure. Each node of the graph corresponds to a member of the social network. Edges connecting two nodes represent a relationship between two users. In addition the degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the minimum number of hops required to traverse the graph from one node to the other. A degree of separation between two users can be considered a measure of relatedness between the two users represented by the nodes in the graph.

A social networking system may support a variety of applications such as photo sharing on line calendars and events. For example the social networking system may also include media sharing capabilities. For example the social networking system may allow users to post photographs and other multimedia files to a user s profile such as in a wall post or in a photo album both of which may be accessible to other users of the social networking system. Social networking system may also allow users to configure events. For example a first user may configure an event with attributes including time and date of the event location of the event and other users invited to the event. The invited users may receive invitations to the event and respond such as by accepting the invitation or declining it . Furthermore social networking system may allow users to maintain a personal calendar. Similarly to events the calendar entries may include times dates locations and identities of other users.

The social networking system may also support a privacy model. A user may or may not wish to share his information with other users or third party applications or a user may wish to share his information only with specific users or third party applications. A user may control whether his information is shared with other users or third party applications through privacy settings associated with his user profile. For example a user may select a privacy setting for each user datum associated with the user and or select settings that apply globally or to categories or types of user profile information. A privacy setting defines or identifies the set of entities e.g. other users connections of the user friends of friends or third party application that may have access to the user datum. The privacy setting may be specified on various levels of granularity such as by specifying particular entities in the social network e.g. other users predefined groups of the user s connections a particular type of connections all of the user s connections all first degree connections of the user s connections the entire social network or even the entire Internet e.g. to make the posted content item index able and searchable on the Internet . A user may choose a default privacy setting for all user data that is to be posted. Additionally a user may specifically exclude certain entities from viewing a user datum or a particular type of user data.

Social networking system may maintain a database of information relating to geographic locations or places. Places may correspond to various physical locations such as restaurants bars train stations airports and the like. Some places may correspond to larger regions that themselves contain places such as a restaurant or a gate location in an airport. In one implementation each place can be maintained as a hub node in a social graph or other data structure maintained by the social networking system as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 171 which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes. Social networking system may allow users to access information regarding each place using a client application e.g. a browser hosted by a wired or wireless station such as a laptop desktop or mobile device. For example social networking system may serve web pages or other structured documents to users that request information about a place. In addition to user profile and place information the social networking system may track or maintain other information about the user. For example the social networking system may support geo social networking system functionality including one or more location based services that record the user s location. For example users may access the geo social networking system using a special purpose client application hosted by a mobile device of the user or a web or network based application using a browser client . The client application may automatically access Global Positioning System GPS or other geo location functions supported by the mobile device and report the user s current location to the geo social networking system. In addition the client application may support geo social networking functionality that allows users to check in at various locations and communicate this location to other users. A check in to a given place may occur when a user is physically located at a place and using a mobile device access the geo social networking system to register the user s presence at the place. A user may select a place from a list of existing places near to the user s current location or create a new place. The user may also provide comments in a text string when checking in to a given place. The user may also identify one or more other users in connection with a check in such as friends of a user and associate them with the check in as well. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 574 614 which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes describes a system that allows a first user to check in other users at a given place. An entry including a comment and a time stamp corresponding to the time the user checked in may be displayed to other users. For example a record of the user s check in activity may be stored in a database. Social networking system may select one or more records associated with check in activities of users at a given place and include such check in activity in web pages or other structured documents that correspond to a given place. For example social networking system may select the check in activity associated with the friends or other social contacts of a user that requests a page corresponding to a place. U.S. application Ser. No. 12 858 718 incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes describes an example geo social networking system that can be used in connection with various embodiments of the present invention. The check in activity may also be displayed on a user profile page and in news feeds provided to users of the social networking system.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may provide a single webpage that displays the recent activity of the user s first degree connections actions on the social network. This type of view also called a news feed allows a user of the social network to quickly view and access pertinent and temporally relevant information about his friends interests and pages the user has expressed an affinity to. The news feed in particular embodiments also includes story entries from the user s own actions on and uploads to the social networking system such as status updates wall posts photo uploads check ins to a geo social networking system . In particular embodiments the stories in the news feed are organized chronologically. In particular embodiments the stories in the news feed are organized based on a social relevancy score calculated by the social networking system.

In addition to geo social functionality the mobile device as described above may permit a user to remotely upload content and perform other actions on the social network over a mobile data network. In particular embodiments the user may through his or her mobile device upload photographs to the social networking system. However where large numbers of users are in the same geographic region a high degree of upstream traffic from those users to the social networking system may overload the wireless data network or networks servicing the geographic region resulting in socket timeouts failed uploads and other connection issues that reduce system responsiveness. In particular embodiments the social networking system may identify geographic areas where the wireless data connection is overloaded and transmit an instruction to the clients in the geographic area to throttle their upstream communications with the social networking service to prevent further overloading the wireless data network.

In particular embodiments the throttling system generates a real time newsfeed from assets local to the client to give the user the impression of responsiveness. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 277 069 which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes describes a system that renders a local newsfeed from client side assets and permits an uploading user to interact with the uploaded content even prior to its upload to the social networking system.

In particular embodiments content updates from throttled users is placed into a priority queue with smaller sized content having higher priority. In particular embodiments content is scored via social factors so that content that is the most socially interesting or relevant is assigned a higher priority. In particular embodiments the throttling instructions have various modes of throttling.

Still further the social networking system may log certain geographic regions and times where overloading of the wireless data network is likely to occur. For example based off a log of historical overloading of the wireless data network in particular geographic regions the social networking system can form an estimate of the wireless data capacity of the geographic region. In particular embodiments the social networking system may then preemptively instruct clients in the geographic area to throttle their upstream communications before a network overload occurs. In particular embodiments the social networking system may augment its database of wireless network capacity with external database such as event databases or sporting event schedules.

In particular embodiments location database may store an information base of places where each place includes a name a geographic location and meta information such as the user that initially created the place reviews comments check in activity data and the like . Places may be created by administrators of the system and or created by users of the system. For example a user may register a new place by accessing a client application to define a place name and provide a geographic location and cause the newly created place to be registered in location database . As discussed above a created place may correspond to a hub node which an administrator can claim for purposes of augmenting the information about the place and for creating ads or other offers to be delivered to users. In particular embodiments system front end may construct and serve a web page of a place as requested by a user. In some embodiments a web page of a place may include selectable components for a user to like the place check in to the place upload photos related to the place in connection with a check in or at a later time . In particular embodiments location database may store geo location data identifying a real world geographic location of a user associated with a check in. For example a geographic location of an Internet connected computer can be identified by the computer s IP address. For example a geographic location of a cell phone equipped with cellular Wi Fi and or GPS capabilities can be identified by cell tower triangulation Wi Fi positioning and or GPS positioning. In particular embodiments location database may store a geographic location and additional information of a plurality of places.

In particular embodiments users may utilize client device to upload content or perform actions on the social network such as status updates wall posts check ins and the like. In particular embodiments the client device itself may decide to queue one or more of the activities for upload at a later time in order to for example conserve battery life. However in particular cases where a large number of clients serviced by the same carrier cellular tower are simultaneously attempting content uploads to the social network the carrier s wireless cellular network may become overloaded. For example in Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems UMTS a particular Node B may only support a limited number such as 1000 PDP contexts IP addresses . Because each application requiring an IP address on a mobile device requires its own PDP context in a crowded environment such as a baseball game or public event a single Node B may become overloaded fairly quickly. As a result users socket connections to the social networking system may time out thereby causing their uploads or downloads of data to fail and undermine the overall responsiveness and user experience.

Platform communicates location information from mobile device to GPS region tracker . In particular embodiments mobile device periodically transmits location data to platform . In particular embodiments mobile device transmits its location to platform every time it initiates a communication with platform . In particular embodiments mobile device calculates its location from a built in GPS receiver. In particular embodiments mobile device calculates its location through time distance of arrival TDoA or other triangulation techniques. In particular embodiments users of mobile device transmit explicit location identifiers to platform in the form of check ins comments status messages reviews and the like. In such embodiments platform may access location database to obtain the exact geographic coordinates of the location specified by a user check in. In particular embodiments platform utilizes audio waveform matching to ascertain that a particular user is near another user having a known location. In particular embodiments the location of mobile device may be ascertained from the EXIF data in an uploaded image. This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of determining the geographic region of a mobile device .

Upon obtaining the location of a particular mobile device GPS region tracker may place mobile device into a particular region such as regions A C. In particular embodiments each region corresponds to a single cell tower Node B base transceiver station BTS or the like for a single carrier. In particular embodiments each region A C corresponds to multiple cellular towers in a particular area. In particular embodiments GPS region tracker comprises a plurality of distributed servers. In embodiments where each region A C is carrier specific platform may also obtain the carrier from mobile device . In particular embodiments the carrier providing service to mobile device may be discovered using a reverse IP address lookup. In particular embodiments the carrier is discovered through the SIM NSAPI IMEI or IMSI of mobile device . This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of determining the carrier of a particular mobile device .

In particular embodiments GPS region tracker maintains a historical log of users through their mobile devices movements their wireless data carrier and connection events as they move from region to region. In particular embodiments wireless connection events comprise a socket timeout a server timeout a failed upload a failed download and the like. In particular embodiments GPS region tracker also records the round trip ping time for each user. This disclosure contemplates logging any suitable set of connection events to estimate wireless data network capacity. Thus as will be further described with reference to GPS region tracker knows at any given time whether a particular geographic region is overloaded due to excessive connections to the social networking system.

Furthermore as will be further described with respect to GPS region tracker may estimate the overall cellular tower data capacity for a given geographic region. In particular embodiments GPS region tracker may estimate the overall cellular tower capacity for a given geographic region for a specific carrier. Combined with the historical log of all the cell tower overloading events GPS region tracker may estimate the overall cellular tower capacity for a given geographic region carrier and time. In particular embodiments GPS region tracker may correlate the times of insufficient capacity to an event database to enhance its predictive ability regarding cellular data link capacity. For example if GPS region tracker detects insufficient data network events at an AT T Node B serving AT T park every time there is a San Francisco Giants game GPS region tracker may automatically institute a bandwidth throttling mode for any mobile device served by that Node B from the hour prior to to the hour after any SF Giants games.

In particular embodiments GPS region tracker issues the throttling command directly to notification system which in turn pushes the instruction via a push notification to mobile device . In particular embodiments GPS region tracker merely identifies mobile devices that are in problem regions to platform and platform issues the throttling command to mobile device . In particular embodiments Platform issues the throttling instruction via notification system . This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of generating and delivering a throttling instruction to mobile device .

At Step GPS region tracker monitors the average number of connection problems experienced by clients in one or more regions. For example if a particular GPS region tracker is responsible for monitoring all AT T and Verizon connections for two particular cellular towers GPS region tracker monitors mobile devices being serviced by the two cell towers in two buckets one for Verizon and one for AT T. In particular embodiments GPS region trackers maintain a moving average of the number of connection problems per user for the bucket in question. In particular embodiments GPS region trackers use a sliding window of a predetermined amount of time for example the number of connection problems per user in each bucket in a minute window. Thus a particular GPS region tracker may maintain multiple moving averages for each region cell tower or the like that it is responsible for monitoring.

If the moving average for any one monitored region exceeds a predetermined threshold such as 10 of all connections experiencing errors GPS region tracker at Step assesses the severity of the connection problem. In particular embodiments GPS region tracker assesses the severity of congestion via one or more thresholds of the moving average. For example if the moving average exceeds 20 of all users in region experiencing connection problems GPS region tracker may determine that the congestion is severe. In particular embodiments GPS region tracker uses the type and number of congestion problems to assess the congestion severity. In particular embodiments GPS region tracker utilizes the round trip ping time to assess congestion. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of evaluating congestion severity of an overloaded wireless data network.

At Step based on the assessed severity of the overloaded geographic region GPS tracker transmits an instruction to all clients in the affected geographic region to enter a reduced bandwidth mode and selectively throttle their own upstream traffic. In particular embodiments GPS region tracker transmits instructions for three levels of throttling. For example if the detected congestion is low GPS region tracker may transmit a message to all affected clients to enter a reduced bandwidth mode only permitting the upload of low resolution images. As another example if the detected congestion is moderate GPS region tracker may issue a command to the affected mobile devices to transmit only text based content such as check ins status messages and comments. At the extreme end if GPS region tracker detects a high level of congestion it may issue a command to the client devices in the region to cease all transmissions to the social networking system until further instructed. In particular embodiments each of the reduced bandwidth modes lasts a predetermined amount of time. In particular embodiments each of the reduced bandwidth modes persists until an all clear message is transmitted to the client devices instructing them to revert to normal transmission.

While mobile devices are in the reduced bandwidth mode their uploads to the social network may be further throttled by the social networking system. For example in the high congestion mode the social networking system may institute a round robin upload queue where each mobile device is given a clear to send notification when it is the mobile device s turn to transmit content to the social networking system. In particular embodiments the social networking applications running on mobile device throttles traffic by selectively queuing uploads based on size. For example information that is text only is queued before images. In particular embodiments the client application applies a queuing algorithm that attempts to maximize the social relevance to size ratio. For example check ins offer a significant amount of information where a user is what he or she is doing and possibly if there are other users tagged who the user is with in a very small amount of data. Thus check ins would be prioritized over status messages comments and photos. By the same rationale check ins with other users tagged would provide greater socially relevant information than a standard check in and would be placed ahead in the queue. In particular embodiments the queuing algorithm also applies to photos a photo with multiple users tagged contains more socially relevant information than a photo with few or any tags. In another embodiment photos with captions are given priority over photos lacking captions. In this manner the client application residing on mobile device briefly analyzes the content to be uploaded and prioritizes the content with the highest social relevance to data size ratio for transmission to the social networking system.

At Step GPS region tracker updates a historical log of the congestion issue for the particular region. In particular embodiments the historical log includes the date time of the congestion the number of users in the geographic region the severity of the congestion and the average round trip ping time for users experiencing the congestion event. This historical database of overloaded wireless networks may be utilized to preemptively throttle traffic prior to actual congestion. In particular embodiments the historical log may be analyzed against prior congestion events or external event databases such as the home game schedule for the Golden State Warriors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of generating and analyzing the historical congestion log.

In particular embodiments the historical congestion log may be utilized to estimate the capacity of the wireless network serving the region. For example the social networking system may determine from the amount of congestion in the region and the number of users in the region a rough estimate of the capacity of the wireless network. In particular embodiments where GPS region tracker is aware of which cellular tower the users are connected to the number of server requests from users connected to a particular cell tower together and the amount of congestion can yield a fairly accurate estimate of the wireless network capacity for the cell tower.

At Step GPS region trackers monitor their assigned region or regions. as previously stated a region may comprise multiple cells for multiple carriers a single cellular tower for a specific carrier or a particular Wi Fi network or coverage area. In particular embodiments the social networking system may track both the location of its users via GPS or other location information as well as the wireless network from which the user is accessing the social networking system. In particular embodiments GPS region tracker uses a reverse IP address lookup to determine what carrier or WiFi access point the user device is connected to.

GPS region tracker monitors the number of users entering a particular region. At Step it compares the number of users in a particular region to its estimate of the wireless network capacity for the particular region. In particular embodiments if the number of users exceeds the estimated capacity of the region GPS region tracker transmits instructions to the clients in that particular region to begin throttling their own traffic. In particular embodiments GPS region tracker assumes every user in the region will not only connect to the wireless data network serving the region but will upload a predetermined amount of data. In particular embodiments the predetermined amount of data is a 1 megapixel photo. In particular embodiments GPS region tracker assumes only of the users in the region will connect to the wireless data network and upload the predetermined amount of data. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method or algorithm for estimating the demand on the wireless data network for the number of user devices in the region.

Regardless of the method of estimating demand and the method of estimating capacity at Step the social networking system transmits one or more instructions to the clients in the particular region to begin throttling their traffic. In particular embodiments the preemptive low bandwidth mode throttles traffic to the low congestion mode as described above. However in particular embodiments an estimated amount of congestion may be calculated from the difference between the estimated demand and estimated capacity.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network such as for example a 802.11a b g n WI FI network a 802.11s mesh network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network an Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE network a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network a Long Term Evolution LTE network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus a Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter UART interface a Inter Integrated Circuit I2C bus a Serial Peripheral Interface SPI bus a Secure Degital SD memory interface a MultiMediaCard MMC memory interface a Memory Stick MS memory interface a Secure Digital Input Output SDIO interface a Multi channel Buffered Serial Port McBSP bus a Universal Serial Bus USB bus a General Purpose Memory Controller GPMC bus a SDRAM Controller SDRC bus a General Purpose Input Output GPIO bus a Separate Video S Video bus a Display Serial Interface DSI bus a Advanced Microcontroller Bus Architecture AMBA bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

The client side functionality described above can be implemented as a series of instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium that when executed cause a programmable processor to implement the operations described above. While the client device may be implemented in a variety of different hardware and computing systems shows a schematic representation of the main components of an example computing platform of a client or mobile device according to various particular embodiments. In particular embodiments computing platform may comprise controller memory and input output subsystem . In particular embodiments controller which may comprise one or more processors and or one or more microcontrollers configured to execute instructions and to carry out operations associated with a computing platform. In various embodiments controller may be implemented as a single chip multiple chips and or other electrical components including one or more integrated circuits and printed circuit boards. Controller may optionally contain a cache memory unit for temporary local storage of instructions data or computer addresses. By way of example using instructions retrieved from memory controller may control the reception and manipulation of input and output data between components of computing platform . By way of example controller may include one or more processors or one or more controllers dedicated for certain processing tasks of computing platform for example for 2D 3D graphics processing image processing or video processing.

Controller together with a suitable operating system may operate to execute instructions in the form of computer code and produce and use data. By way of example and not by way of limitation the operating system may be Windows based Mac based or Unix or Linux based or Symbian based among other suitable operating systems. The operating system other computer code and or data may be physically stored within memory that is operatively coupled to controller .

Memory may encompass one or more storage media and generally provide a place to store computer code e.g. software and or firmware and data that are used by computing platform . By way of example memory may include various tangible computer readable storage media including Read Only Memory ROM and or Random Access Memory RAM . As is well known in the art ROM acts to transfer data and instructions uni directionally to controller and RAM is used typically to transfer data and instructions in a bi directional manner. Memory may also include one or more fixed storage devices in the form of by way of example hard disk drives HDDs solid state drives SSDs flash memory cards e.g. Secured Digital or SD cards embedded MultiMediaCard or eMMD cards among other suitable forms of memory coupled bi directionally to controller . Information may also reside on one or more removable storage media loaded into or installed in computing platform when needed. By way of example any of a number of suitable memory cards e.g. SD cards may be loaded into computing platform on a temporary or permanent basis.

Input output subsystem may comprise one or more input and output devices operably connected to controller . For example input output subsystem may include keyboard mouse one or more buttons thumb wheel and or display e.g. liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED Interferometric modulator display IMOD or any other suitable display technology . Generally input devices are configured to transfer data commands and responses from the outside world into computing platform . The display is generally configured to display a graphical user interface GUI that provides an easy to use visual interface between a user of the computing platform and the operating system or application s running on the mobile device. Generally the GUI presents programs files and operational options with graphical images. During operation the user may select and activate various graphical images displayed on the display in order to initiate functions and tasks associated therewith. Input output subsystem may also include touch based devices such as touch pad and touch screen. A touchpad is an input device including a surface that detects touch based inputs of users. Similarly a touch screen is a display that detects the presence and location of user touch inputs. Input output system may also include dual touch or multi touch displays or touch pads that can identify the presence location and movement of more than one touch inputs such as two or three finger touches.

In particular embodiments computing platform may additionally comprise audio subsystem camera subsystem wireless communication subsystem sensor subsystems and or wired communication subsystem operably connected to controller to facilitate various functions of computing platform . For example Audio subsystem including a speaker a microphone and a codec module configured to process audio signals can be utilized to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions. For example camera subsystem including an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS image sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips. For example wired communication subsystem can include a Universal Serial Bus USB port for file transferring or a Ethernet port for connection to a local area network LAN .

Wireless communication subsystem can be designed to operate over one or more wireless networks for example a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN an infrared PAN a WI FI network such as for example an 802.11a b g n WI FI network an 802.11s mesh network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network an Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE network a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network and or a Long Term Evolution LTE network . Additionally wireless communication subsystem may include hosting protocols such that computing platform may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

Sensor subsystem may include one or more sensor devices to provide additional input and facilitate multiple functionalities of computing platform . For example sensor subsystems may include GPS sensor for location positioning altimeter for altitude positioning motion sensor for determining orientation of a mobile device light sensor for photographing function with camera subsystem temperature sensor for measuring ambient temperature and or biometric sensor for security application e.g. fingerprint reader .

In particular embodiments various components of computing platform may be operably connected together by one or more buses including hardware and or software . As an example and not by way of limitation the one or more buses may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus a Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter UART interface a Inter Integrated Circuit I2C bus a Serial Peripheral Interface SPI bus a Secure Degital SD memory interface a MultiMediaCard MMC memory interface a Memory Stick MS memory interface a Secure Digital Input Output SDIO interface a Multi channel Buffered Serial Port McBSP bus a Universal Serial Bus USB bus a General Purpose Memory Controller GPMC bus a SDRAM Controller SDRC bus a General Purpose Input Output GPIO bus a Separate Video S Video bus a Display Serial Interface DSI bus an Advanced Microcontroller Bus Architecture AMBA bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive a MultiMediaCard MMC card an embedded MMC eMMC card or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl JavaScript or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

