---

title: Non-reciprocal acoustic devices based on linear or angular momentum biasing
abstract: A non-reciprocal acoustic device that accomplishes non-reciprocity via linear or angular-momentum bias. The non-reciprocal acoustic device includes an azimuthally symmetric or planar acoustical cavity (e.g., ring cavity), where the cavity is biased by imposing a circular or linear motion of a gas, a fluid or a solid medium filling the cavity. Acoustic waveguides are connected to the cavity or the cavity is excited from the surrounding medium. A port of this device is excited with an acoustic wave. When the cavity is biased appropriately, the acoustic wave is transmitted to one of the other acoustic waveguides while no transmission of the acoustic wave occurs at the other acoustic waveguides. As a result, linear non-reciprocity is now realized in acoustics without distorting the input signal or requiring high input power or bulky devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09536512&OS=09536512&RS=09536512
owner: Board of Regents, The University of Texas System
number: 09536512
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140804
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 868 178 Non Reciprocal Acoustic Devices Based on Angular Momentum Biasing filed on Aug. 21 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. HDTRA1 12 1 0022 awarded by the Department of Defense Department of Threat Reduction. The U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates generally to non reciprocal devices and more particularly to non reciprocal acoustic devices based on angular momentum biasing.

Non reciprocity of wave propagation is a fascinating property of a medium originating from time reversal symmetry breaking According to the Casimir Onsager principle for a device to be non reciprocal its scattering matrix must depend on an odd vector upon time reversal. For instance in such a non reciprocal device e.g. isolator diode the waves are totally transmitted in one direction and perfectly reflected in the other. Recently a few proposals for achieving unidirectional sound propagation in linear devices have been discussed but most of these concepts use an asymmetric linear structure without any type of odd vector bias making the device totally symmetric upon time reversal and therefore completely reciprocal. These linear devices behave as asymmetrical mode converters rather than as isolators. These linear devices cannot be used for sound isolation because if the input and output are reversed as required in a device having the purpose of a diode between two ports the propagation is strictly reciprocal.

A viable solution to achieve acoustic non reciprocity suitable for isolation is to use non linear media. For instance one can pair a phononic crystal and a non linear medium capable of converting the frequency of the wave. From one side the wave is reflected because the crystal is operating in the band gap. From the other side the wave frequency is converted into a value in the propagation band of the crystal and therefore transmitted through the structure. However this solution requires very high input powers and makes it difficult to efficiently operate with the low intensity signals typically encountered in linear acoustics. As an additional drawback particularly problematic for sound waves it drastically modifies the frequency of the signal. In principle though non reciprocal propagation in linear systems is allowed by the laws of physics. Magnetic bias can induce non reciprocity like in the case of the acoustic Faraday effect but magneto acoustic effects are relatively weak and would require large devices considerably bigger than the wavelength. Mechanical motion has been proposed to realize an acoustic gyrator a non reciprocal phase shifter but as in the case of magnetic bias the obtained device is very bulky and stringently limited to transverse waves on pipes. A solution for a linear compact acoustic non reciprocal device for longitudinal waves in a gas e.g. air is still missing and highly desirable for audible sound isolation.

In one embodiment of the present invention a non reciprocal device comprises an azimuthally symmetric acoustical cavity with an angular momentum bias. The non reciprocal device further comprises a plurality of acoustic waveguides connected to the azimuthally symmetric acoustical cavity where each of the plurality of acoustic waveguides is associated with an input and output port. Additionally the non reciprocal device comprises an input port of a first acoustic waveguide of the plurality of acoustic waveguides that is excited with an acoustic wave. The azimuthally symmetric acoustical cavity is biased in such a manner to induce total transmission of the acoustic wave to an output port of a second acoustic waveguide of the plurality of acoustic waveguides and no transmission of the acoustic wave to an output port of a third acoustic waveguide of the plurality of acoustic waveguides.

In another embodiment of the present invention a non reciprocal device comprises an acoustical cavity with an angular momentum bias where the acoustical cavity is composed of sub cavities coupled to each other and where the angular momentum bias is achieved by a temporal modulation of acoustical properties of the sub cavities. The non reciprocal device further comprises a plurality of acoustic waveguides connected to the acoustical cavity where each of the plurality of acoustic waveguides is associated with an input and output port. Furthermore the non reciprocal device comprises an input port of a first acoustic waveguide of the plurality of acoustic waveguides is excited with an acoustic wave. The acoustical cavity is biased in such a manner to induce total transmission of the acoustic wave to an output port of a second acoustic waveguide of the plurality of acoustic waveguides and no transmission of the acoustic wave to an output port of a third acoustic waveguide of the plurality of acoustic waveguides.

In another embodiment of the present invention a non reciprocal device comprises an acoustical cavity where the acoustical cavity is composed of a planar cavity in which a linear momentum bias is applied through a transversely moving medium or a temporal modulation. The non reciprocal device further comprises a pair of acoustic waveguides connected to the acoustical cavity where each of the pair of acoustic waveguides is associated with an input and output port. The non reciprocal device additionally comprises an input port of a first acoustic waveguide of the pair of acoustic waveguides is excited with an acoustic wave. The acoustical cavity is biased in such a manner to induce total transmission of the acoustic wave excited at the input port of the first acoustic waveguide of the pair of acoustic waveguides to an output port of the second acoustic waveguide of the pair of acoustic waveguides where the acoustical cavity is biased in such a manner to induce zero transmission of the acoustic wave excited at an input port of the second acoustic waveguide of the pair of acoustic waveguides to an output port of the first acoustic waveguide of the pair of acoustic waveguides.

In another embodiment of the present invention a non reciprocal device comprises an acoustical cavity where the acoustical cavity is composed of a planar cavity in which a linear momentum bias is applied through a transversely moving medium or a temporal modulation and where the acoustical cavity is excited by acoustic waves propagating in free space. Faces of the acoustical cavity are partially transparent in order to allow penetration of the acoustic waves into the acoustical cavity.

In a further embodiment of the present invention an artificial acoustic medium made of a lattice of non reciprocal devices where the acoustic medium is rendered non reciprocal by applying angular or linear momentum bias to each element of the lattice resulting in non reciprocal propagation for both bulk modes and edge modes of the artificial acoustic medium.

The foregoing has outlined rather generally the features and technical advantages of one or more embodiments of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the present invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the present invention will be described hereinafter which may form the subject of the claims of the present invention.

As stated in the Background section a viable solution to achieve acoustic non reciprocity suitable for isolation is to use non linear media. For instance one can pair a phononic crystal and a non linear medium capable of converting the frequency of the wave. From one side the wave is reflected because the crystal is operating in the band gap. From the other side the wave frequency is converted into a value in the propagation band of the crystal and therefore transmitted through the structure. However this solution requires very high input powers and makes it difficult to efficiently operate with the low intensity signals typically encountered in linear acoustics. As an additional drawback particularly problematic for sound waves it drastically modifies the frequency of the signal. In principle though non reciprocal propagation in linear systems is allowed by the laws of physics. Magnetic bias can induce non reciprocity like in the case of the acoustic Faraday effect but magneto acoustic effects are relatively weak and would require large devices considerably bigger than the wavelength. Mechanical motion has been proposed to realize an acoustic gyrator a non reciprocal phase shifter but as in the case of magnetic bias the obtained device is very bulky and stringently limited to transverse waves on pipes. A solution for a linear compact acoustic non reciprocal device for longitudinal waves in a gas e.g. air is still missing and highly desirable for audible sound isolation.

The principles of the present invention provide a means for developing a linear non reciprocal device such as a linear acoustic diode or a linear acoustic isolator for acoustic waves based on angular momentum biasing. As a result of the principles of the present invention linear non reciprocity is now realized in acoustics without distorting the input signal or requiring high input power or bulky devices. The method for developing such a non reciprocal acoustic device is based on introducing an acoustic equivalent to the Zeeman effect based on angular momentum biasing a small circular cavity at resonance. Consider an azimuthally symmetric acoustical cavity for instance a ring cavity carved into a solid block as depicted in in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Referring to cavity is biased by imposing a circular motion to the filling medium e.g. gas such as air a fluid and a solid such as a rubber ring in water at a resonance frequency. The bias velocity is assumed to be azimuthally directed along right arrow over e and may depend on the radial distance r although it is assumed without loss of generality that its magnitude is constant and equal to v. In the absence of external bias ring cavity resonates when its average circumference approximately equals an integer number m of the wavelength supporting degenerate counter propagating eigenmodes with azimuthal dependence e. This implies that for the fundamental mode m 1 used in an embodiment of the present invention the dimensions of ring cavity are smaller than the wavelength. To understand the effect of the bias on the modal properties consider the time independent Schrodinger equation of the ring 1 where is a modal state vector w is the eigenfrequency His the time evolution operator of the system in absence of bias and P is an operator describing the perturbation due to the moving medium. This equation is derived assuming irrotational and isentropic flow. Neglecting the higher order modes the two eigenvalues and are found as 

In ferromagnetic materials the Zeeman effect is responsible for non reciprocal propagation of electromagnetic waves. Because the space of the states of ring cavity now depends on an odd vector upon time reversal i.e. the angular momentum of the moving medium one would expect the proposed acoustic Zeeman effect to be capable of inducing non reciprocity just like its quantum counterpart for electromagnetic waves. In that regard the principles of the present invention generalize the acoustic diode to a three port linear device also known as circulator. Such a device allows acoustic power incident at port to be totally and solely transmitted at port . From port the power goes to port and from port to port . The scattering matrix S for the circulator envisioned in in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is non symmetrical 

Numerous simulations have been performed to investigate the behavior of the three port system of when an acoustic wave is incident from port . The results are summarized in in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. will now be discussed in conjunction with .

Referring to which depicts the case of not biasing the system of the magnitude of the pressure transmission coefficient is calculated at ports and when no bias is applied. In that case the transmission coefficients at ports and are identical consistent with the symmetry of device . System is a power divider which sends 4 9 of the power in each of the output port e.g. ports and the remaining 1 9 being reflected.

To get more insight into the behavior of the acoustic pressure field inside device the acoustic pressure field distribution under the unbiased operation and under the optimum velocity bias is shown in respectively in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Under the unbiased operation as shown in the modes are degenerate and evenly excited resulting in a field distribution inside the cavity that is totally symmetrical with respect to the axis of port . Ports and which are symmetrical with respect to the port axis are evenly excited and non reciprocal propagation is totally out of the picture. The average power flow represented by the black arrows is split evenly between the two output ports ports and . When device is properly biased however the split modes are excited in different ways and interfere leading to a field distribution that is no longer symmetrical with respect to the port axis. It is clear from the plot of that a destructive interference occurs at port while at port the modes interfere constructively explaining the peculiar non reciprocal response. The power flow is fully and consistently routed to only the left output port port .

A device fabricated using the principles of the present invention is shown in in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In one embodiment three low noise CPU cooling fans A C placed in the cavity at 120 intervals generate the circulating flow aiming at operation in the audible range around 800 Hz. Fans A C may collectively or individually be referred to as fans or fan respectively. By varying the input current of fans the bias velocity of the cavity is varied. Device is excited by a loudspeaker placed upstream such as in port . illustrate the measured transmission spectrum at port and port respectively normalized to the case of no bias in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In the input current was set to 130 mA and non reciprocity was observed very clearly in excellent agreement with the theory. illustrates the effect of varying the fan input current i.e. the fan speed on the transmission coefficients in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The experimental measures corroborate nicely the prediction of the theory of . To quantify the performance of device the amount of non reciprocity characterized by the isolation S S as a function of the input current is measured as shown in in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Using the principles of the present invention a giant isolation of more than 30 dB around the optimal bias value was obtained. During the experiments the response of device was tested to excitation at the other ports. As expected from the 120 symmetry the results were consistent with the one obtained from exciting port . Since the bias is electronically controlled allowing a high degree of tunability it is possible to instantaneously switch from reciprocal to non reciprocal operation and even reverse the handedness of the circulator by changing the sign of the input current. Narrow band signals were sent at co and non reciprocity was audible to an observer.

While discuss using three low noise CPU cooling fans to achieve angular momentum bias by imparting a circular flow of air filling cavity the principles of the present invention may use other means to achieve angular momentum bias such as by using a stirrer to impart a circular flow of fluid filling the cavity. Furthermore the non reciprocal device may include an acoustical cavity with an angular momentum bias where the acoustical cavity is composed of a sub cavities coupled to each other and where the angular momentum bias is achieved by a temporal modulation of the acoustical properties of the sub cavities. Additionally the non reciprocal device may include an acoustical cavity where the acoustical cavity is composed of a planar cavity in which a linear momentum bias is applied through a transversely moving medium or a temporal modulation.

In all branches of wave physics subwavelength wave manipulation is definitely challenging and yet extremely desirable due to the compactness of the associated devices. The subwavelength acoustic diode of the present invention may be used in practical integrated and tunable devices to achieve giant acoustic isolation at audible frequencies. The acoustic Zeeman effect based on angular momentum biasing of a subwavelength ring cavity may open new venues to tame the propagation of airborne acoustic waves in a new generation of acoustic switches noise control devices or imaging systems.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

