---

title: Providing social network feedback
abstract: Feedback enhancement tool in a social network is provided. A processor receives a new message. The processor determines a popularity score of the new message based, at least in part, on a likelihood the new message will be viewed by one or more recipients of the new message. The processor generates a visual indicator based, at least in part, on the popularity score prior to the user posting the new message to the social network for viewing by the one or more recipients.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619522&OS=09619522&RS=09619522
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09619522
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140320
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of social networking and more particularly to enhancing feedback for users of social networks.

A social network comprises numerous users who create relationships with one another in order to share content. The users typically have similar interests with each other that serve as the catalyst for collaborating with similar users that are part of the social network. The similar interests serve as a basis for users to form relationships or contact within the social network. Users collaborate with other users having similar interests by creating and joining groups to deliver content to likeminded individuals. Once relationships are established within the social network users share content by way of messages either as text or media rich formats such as audio or video. As more users join the social network the amount of content on the social network increases and as a result the visibility of a new message is lessened when shared with other users.

In an aspect of the invention a method for providing feedback in a social network is provided. The method receives a new message. The method determines a popularity score of the new message based at least in part on a likelihood the new message will be viewed by one or more recipients of the new message. The method generates a visual indicator based at least in part on the popularity score prior to the user posting the new message to the social network for viewing by the one or more recipients.

In another aspect of the invention a computer program product is provided with the computer program product comprising one or more computer readable storage mediums and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage mediums. Program instructions are provided to receive a new message. Program instructions are provided to determine a popularity score of the new message based at least in part on a likelihood the new message will be viewed by one or more recipients of the new message. Program instructions are provided to generate a visual indicator based at least in part on the popularity score prior to the user posting the new message to the social network for viewing by the one or more recipients.

In yet another aspect of the invention a system is provided comprising one or more processors computer readable storage mediums communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage mediums. Program instructions are provided to receive a new message. Program instructions are provided to determine a popularity score of the new message based at least in part on a likelihood the new message will be viewed by one or more recipients of the new message. Program instructions are provided to generate a visual indicator based at least in part on the popularity score prior to the user posting the new message to the social network for viewing by the one or more recipients.

In yet another aspect of the invention a method for deploying a system for providing feedback in a social network comprises providing a computer infrastructure being operable to receive a new message determine a popularity score of the new message based at least in part on a likelihood the new message will be viewed by one or more recipients of the new message and generate a visual indicator based at least in part on the popularity score prior to the user posting the new message to the social network for viewing by the one or more recipients.

In order for a user s message to be heard by other users of a social network the message will need to be tailored to meet the interests of other users. Embodiments of the present invention disclose providing to a user a visual indication as to how popular a message will be when posted to the social network and also offer suggestions to increase the message s visibility. Also as more messages and content are being posted at a given time by users a need has arisen to provide quick and simple feedback that indicates if the messages the users create will be viewed by other users. The present invention provides feedback by way of suggesting changes to messages including the content contained within the messages as well as generating a visual indicator representing the predicted popularity for the messages users create.

The present invention may be a system a method and or a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium or media having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.

The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but is not limited to an electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device such as punch cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network and or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables optical transmission fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing processing device receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing processing device.

Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions instruction set architecture ISA instructions machine instructions machine dependent instructions microcode firmware instructions state setting data or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . In some embodiments electronic circuitry including for example programmable logic circuitry field programmable gate arrays FPGA or programmable logic arrays PLA may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry in order to perform aspects of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program instructions.

These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a programmable data processing apparatus and or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of instructions which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the Figures. is a functional block diagram illustrating social network environment generally designated in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. Networked environment includes user device and social network server that are connected via network . User device includes user program . Server respectively includes social network program feedback program user data group data message data and prediction data .

In various embodiments of the present disclosure user device and social network server are computing devices that can each respectively be a standalone device server laptop computer tablet computer netbook computer personal computer PC or desktop computer. In another embodiment user device and social network server each represent a computing system utilizing clustered computers and components to act as a single pool of seamless resources. In general user device can be any computing device or a combination of devices with access to and capable of executing user program and that is capable of requesting receiving and passing information to and from social network server . Social network server can also be any computing device or a combination of devices with access to user data group data message data and prediction data . Social network server can also be any computing device or a combination of devices with access to and is capable of executing user program social network program and feedback program . User device and social network server may include internal and external hardware components as depicted and described in further detail with respect to .

In one embodiment user program is stored on user device while social network program feedback program user data group data message data and prediction data are stored on social network server . However in other embodiments user program social network program feedback program user data group data message data and prediction data may be stored externally and accessed through a communication network such as network . Network can be for example a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or a combination of the two and may include wired wireless fiber optic or any other connection known in the art. In general network can be any combination of connections and protocols that will support communications between user device social network server social network program feedback program user data group data message data and prediction data in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

User program operates to provide access to social network program to a user and also send message information and receive feedback from feedback program . In one embodiment user program of user device receives input from a user to create a new message to post on social network program . User program sends the new message to feedback program . Feedback program determines a popularity score for the new message and provides feedback to the user program by a visual indicator which represents the popularity score. User program displays the visual indicator to give the user an indication as to how popular the new message is determined to be when posted to social network program . Given that the popularity score is below a certain value feedback program generates suggestions to improve the popularity score of the new message and send the suggestions to user program . User program displays the suggestions to the user. User program receives changes to the new message from the user which may include the suggestions. When user program receives any changes made to the new message by the user user program sends the altered new message to feedback program . Feedback program determines the popularity score of the altered new message. Feedback program updates the popularity score in response to a change in the new message. Feedback program generates a new visual indicator representative of the current popularity score. Feedback program sends the new visual indicator to user program . Feedback program monitors for changes in the new message as received by user program from a user. In response to determining that a change has occurred feedback program determines a new popularity score Feedback program continues monitoring the new message input received from user program until user program receives input from the user to post the new message to the social network program .

In one embodiment user program is a web browser capable of communicating with both social network program and feedback program by way of hypertext transfer protocol or HTTP. In other embodiments user program may be a dedicated application capable of communicating with both social network program and feedback program by way of application programming interfaces of APIs. One skilled in the art will recognize that any application can be used for user program as well as any supporting protocols or interfaces in order to communicate with both social network program and feedback program .

User program receives requests from a user to display information stored on social network server . Such information may include user data group data and message data . In response to receiving the request user program sends a query of the requested information to social network program . Social network program sends the requested information to user program which in turns displays the requested information to the user on user device .

Social network program creates profiles for a user when the user signs up for access to social network program . Each user s profile is stored in user data . User data contains profiles for each user of the social network program as well as credentials to grant access to the profile associated with each user. Social network program grants access to users of user program based upon received credentials e.g. a username and password sent by user program . Social network program compares the received credentials with user data associated with the provided credentials to authenticate the user. In response to a successful authentication the user is permitted access to functions of social network program such as but not limited to creating messages viewing messages created by others and joining groups.

User data stores profiles of users which contain information describing a particular user s personal information friends or contacts of the user as well as any groups the user is a member of. Personal information stored within a user profile may include the user s name a nickname or alias location work experience hobbies interests and any other information that describes the user s lifestyle. Each user profile stored in user data includes entries for other users profiles to be friends or contacts for a particular user. Friends or contacts are added to user data when user program receives a request from the user to add another user to his profile as a friend or contact. User program sends the request to social network program which in turn adds the friend or contact to the users profile and stores the new friend of contact in user data .

Each user profile that is stored in user data also stores information regarding which groups a user is a member of. Users are able to create groups that other users can join. Groups allow likeminded users or users with similar qualities to share messages with members of the group. A user enters a request to user program to create a group. The group may be public where any user of social network program can become a member of the group or private granting membership by sending an invite to join the group. When creating a group a user enters a request to user program to make the user a member of a group. User program sends the request to social network program which in turn creates the group and stores the group s information in group data .

Group data contains entries for each group of the social network. For each entry a list of members is stored in group data as well as a profile of the group. The profile for a group contains information describing the group e.g. a name for the group the group s interests or purpose links to information regarding the group. The profile of a group can associate one or more users as administrators of the group. A user designated as administrator can edit the profile of the group and given the group is private can send invites to add members to the group.

Profiles stored in user data may be public or private to allow other users of social network program to view the information stored in the profile of user data for a particular user. A public profile is viewable by any user of social network program . A private profile is only viewable by friends or contacts of the user as stored in user data . In some embodiments users are able to choose what parts of a profile are public and which are private. In other embodiments users are able to select information stored in the profile to not be viewable by anyone regardless if the other user is a friend contact or both are members of the same group.

In one embodiment social network program of social network server allows users of a social network to share messages and content between each other or among groups that are part of the social network. Social network program coordinates the sending and receiving of shared messages and content amongst the various users and groups of social network program . Messages may include text content such as plain text or rich text. Messages may also include media rich content such as audio pictures or video. Messages may also include links to other websites and content profiles of users or groups of the social network. Messages may also include information regarding actions performed within the social network program by users as well e.g. a user updating a profile joining a group or liking or recommending a message already posted to social network program . When a user creates and posts a message social network program stores the message as message data .

Message data stores an entry for each message created by users of social network program . Each message stored in message data is associated to the user that creates the message. Messages data also stores the intended recipients of a message. The intended recipients may be a specific user a group of users a friend or contact of the user a group of friends or contacts of the user a group stored in group data or specific members of a group stored in group data . Message data also stores the time and date a message was posted to social network program . Message data also stores an indication that a message is public or private. A public message is viewable by any user of social network program given the profile the message is sent to is not a private profile. A private message is viewable to only the recipient s selected by the user as well as the user posting the message. In some embodiments a public message is viewable by users without a profile stored in user data e.g. users who are not a member of the social network. Messages may also be made publicly viewable by posting the message directly to the profile of the user who created the message.

In one embodiment message data also stores information indicating which users if any have viewed a particular message. Message data stores information indicating a user viewed a particular message as well as the time and date the viewing occurred. Message data also stores any other actions a user can make indicative of a user s approval of a message e.g. liking or recommending the message. When a user views or approves of a particular message social network program updates an entry in message data corresponding to the viewed or approved message with the user who viewed or approved of the message along with the time and date the event occurred.

Message data stores information indicative of threaded conversations. Threaded conversations are more than one message between users of social network program where a user creates a message or parent and other users of social network program can post subsequent or child messages that respond to the parent message. Message data stores each message as separate entries and store a link that points to other messages stored in message data when replied to. Message data stores links in the parent message to any child messages that are a reply to the parent message. Message data stores links in child messages to any parent messages they are in response to. Child messages may also be responded to and become a parent message to any response made by other users of social network program . The links stored in messages data for parent and child messages create a data structure that represents a threaded conversation. As such feedback program is capable of following a series of messages in a threaded conversation by the links stored in message data .

In one embodiment message data is presented to users as an activity stream. In response to viewing a user s profile an activity stream is displayed for the user. The activity stream includes messages addressed to or sent by the user whose profile is being viewed. In response to viewing a user s profile message data is compared to the user s profile and messages that are created by the user are displayed. In other embodiments message data is compared to the user s profile and messages that the user is a recipient of a message are displayed. The activity stream is able to be sorted or filtered by the user associated with the profile or by other users of social network program who are viewing the particular user s profile. Messages may be sorted by the time in which they were created creating a timeline of activity reflecting a user s messages made on social network program . Messages may be filtered based on information contained in a user s profile e.g. messages created from members of a group the user is a member of.

In one embodiment feedback program determines a popularity score for a new message as it is being created prior to the message being posted by social network program . When user program of user device receives input from a user to create a message prior to the message being posted to social network program user program sends the message to feedback program . Feedback program receives the message and determines a popularity score of the message. The popularity score represents the likelihood that an individual recipient or group of recipients will view the message being created when posted. Once the popularity score is determined feedback program generates a visual indicator representative of the popularity score and sends the visual indicator to user program . User program displays to the user the visual indicator prior to the user posting the message to social network program . If the user alters the message feedback program determines a new popularity score based on the current message received from user program as it is being created by the user. In other embodiments feedback program sends the popularity score once determined. In this case user program generates the visual indicator for display to user device .

In one embodiment feedback program determines the popularity score by comparing the message stored in user program as it is being created by the user against one or more of the following user data group data message data and prediction data . The popularity score is a measure of the degree to which a message being created will be viewed other users of social network program . The popularity score is determined by the statistical confidence that the one or more recipients of a message will view the message when posted. Given that multiple recipients are intended to be sent the message the popularity score is determined for each recipient of the message and the resulting statistical confidence determined for each recipient is combined to create a total popularity score for all the recipients of the message being created.

Prediction data includes statistical models which includes rules and weights. Feedback program applies weight to the rules to determine the popularity score of a new message created by the user of user program . Statistical models of prediction data include rules used to determine a likelihood one or more recipients of the message being created will view the message once it is posted to social network program . Statistical models also contain weights associated with the rules stored in prediction data . The weights indicate the importance of the rule when feedback program uses when determining a popularity score for a message. Feedback program generates a popularity score by applying the statistical models contained in prediction data to the content of the new message. The statistical models include one or more of the following linear regression models decision trees or cluster analysis.

In one embodiment user data and group data include popular content data respectively. For each user associated with an entry in user data popular content data is stored. Popular content data for a user includes content that feedback program has determined to be popular from analyzing a user s profile and analyzing message content viewed by the user stored in message data . For each group associated with an entry in group data popular content data is stored. Popular content data for a user includes content that feedback program has determined to be popular from analyzing a group s profile and analyzing message content viewed by the users of the group stored in message data . Popular content data associates a weight indicating the likelihood that a user or group of users will read a message for each item of popular content stored for the user of group of users. Feedback program in some embodiments determines the popularity score based on the weight associated with particular content data. Feedback program updates popular content data of user data and group data based on message data viewed by the user or group of users based on the content of message data the user or group of users viewed respectively. Feedback program assigns a weight to popular content data based on the frequency that a user or group of users viewed similar content.

Popular content data stored in user data and group data includes keywords phrases ideas or other content popular amongst specific users and groups of users of social network program respectively. Keywords include certain text that a user or group of users find popular. Phrases include sequences of words or groupings of text that a user or group of users find popular. Ideas include concepts as determined by natural language processing to be popular among a user or group of users such that the text of a new message is not the same as popular content data however the content is determined to contain similar concepts by feedback program . Other content includes content other than text such as video content audio content or other media rich content.

Feedback program correlates popular content data with one or more recipients of a new message created by a user. In response to the new message having a low popularity score feedback program generates a suggestion. As an example the popular content data of an entry for a recipient stored in user data indicates that the particular user is likely to view posts that include video content. As such feedback program suggests adding video content to the message in order to increase the popularity score associated with the recipient.

In one embodiment feedback program receives a message from user program as a user of user device is creating a message. Feedback program applies natural language processing to the message being created in order to determine the content of the message. Feedback program determines the popularity score of the message based on the content as determined by the natural language processing. Feedback program applies statistical models stored in prediction data to the determined message content to determine a popularity score. Feedback program will also gather any relevant user data and group data based upon the recipients of the message being created when applying the statistical models of prediction data .

In one embodiment feedback program applies message data to the statistical models of predication data . For example given the message being created is a reply to a previous message and as such part of a threaded conversation feedback program applies message data of any parent message in the threaded conversation as well as any other child messages in the threaded conversation to the statistical models of prediction data . Feedback program determines the content of each message of the threaded conversation using natural language processing. The statistical models of prediction data determines if content of the message being created by a user is similar to content of the messages in the threaded conversation. Based on the similarity feedback program generates a higher popularity score.

In one embodiment feedback program also applies threaded conversation message data to determine the timeliness of the messages in a threaded conversation to the statistical models of predication data . The timeliness of a message in a threaded conversation may be determined by feedback program based on a predetermined amount of time before the current time e.g. timely message content includes messages posted within the last two hours. The timeliness of a message in a threaded conversation may also be determined by feedback program based upon a predetermined number of parent messages in a threaded conversation e.g. timely message content includes content for the previous two parent messages. For example in a threaded conversation the topics discussed will change over time. In this case a new message to the threaded conversation will need to be on topic to be considered popular in the threaded conversation. Feedback program applies a weight to messages of the threaded conversation which gives less importance to content of older messages in the threaded conversation and more importance to more recent messages of the conversation. Therefore if a user creates a message with content earlier in the threaded conversation then the message will not receive a high popularity score. However if the user creates a message with similar content to messages towards the end of the threaded conversation then the message will receive a higher popularity score.

In one embodiment feedback program gathers all relevant information to the message stored in one or more of the following user data group data and message data . Feedback program applies the gathered information to the statistical models of prediction data and generates a popularity score. Feedback program generates a visual indicator that is indicative of the popularity score for the current message being created by the user. Feedback program sends the visual indicator to user program for display on user device . The visual indicator may include one or more of the following a symbol a color coded icon a percentage value a gradient a message and a progress bar. As an example a color coded icon has the color red if the popularity score is below a threshold value and green when the popularity score is above the threshold. As another example a progress bar may be filled based on the number of recipients in a group with popularity scores indicative of the recipients likely to view the message.

In other embodiments feedback program determines the popularity score is below a threshold. In response to determining the popularity score is below a threshold determination feedback program sends to user program suggestions to alter the message being created such that the suggested change will increase the popularity score. The suggestions may be determined on popular content data and profile data stored in user data and group data . Feedback program may also suggest content contained in a threaded conversation stored in message data given the message is part of a threaded conversation. Feedback program may also suggest changes based on determinations made by the statistical models of prediction data .

In one embodiment the user alters the message being created in user program . User program sends the updated message to feedback program . Feedback program determines a new popularity score as well as any suggestions given the popularity score is below a certain value. Feedback program generates a visual indicator representative of the popularity score and sends the visual indicator to user program of user device for displaying to the user. Feedback program also sends any generated suggestions to user program of user device for displaying to the user. The user may continue the process of changing the message being created. As such feedback program determines a new popularity score and generates suggestions and a visual indicator until the user posts the message to social network program .

In other embodiments feedback program generates visual indicator of the popularity score and any determined suggestions on a user by user basis for each of the intended recipients. Feedback program determines the popularity score for each recipient and given the popularity score is below a certain value for the recipient suggestions for each recipient. Feedback program generates a visual indicator and sends the visual indicator to user program for displaying on user device to the user. User program displays a visual indicator alongside the respective recipient the popularity score is applicable to as well as any suggestions generated by feedback program when the popularity score for the particular recipient is below a certain value for the particular recipient.

In one embodiment social network program determines a message has been viewed by information received from user program . In response to determining that a message is viewed social network program updates the entry of message data corresponding to the message with information indicating the user who viewed the message and the time and date the viewing occurred. In other embodiments user program determines the current information being displayed to the user of user device . In response to determining that particular message data was requested and displayed by user program user program sends a notification to social network program of the viewing of message data . Social network program in response to receiving the notification of the viewing of message data updates the entry of message data corresponding to the message that was viewed with information indicating the user who viewed the message and the time and date the viewing occurred. In some embodiments user program requests multiple entries in message data to be displayed to a user e.g. an activity stream for a user. In the instant case user program sends a notification of message data being viewed based on which particular portion of the requested message data was displayed on the display of user device .

In other embodiments user device is communicatively coupled to a camera where the camera provides visual information of a user. User program receives the visual information of the user and makes a determination of the user eye movements from the received visual information. User program correlates the visual information with the location of message data currently displayed on user device . In response to the correlation of eye movements and the location of message data as it is currently displayed of user device user program determines which messages being displayed on the display of user device are being viewed by the user. User program as a result of the determined correlation sends notifications to social network program indicating that the user has viewed a particular message of the displayed message data .

In other embodiments user program receives from a user a request to like or recommend a message in message data . In response to receiving the request to like or recommend a message user program sends the request to social network program . Social network program processes the request received from user program in addition to update the corresponding message of message data the request is indicating to have been viewed by the user. In other embodiments social network program tracks a user s interaction with social network program by way of user program . Social network program determines a message is viewed based on received requests from user program . Given that the request contains a message stored in message data social network program determines the message has been viewed by the user and updates the entry in messages data for the determined message to indicate which user has viewed the message and the date and time the viewing occurred.

In one embodiment prediction data is trained based on expected outcomes generated by feedback program . As an example feedback program determines a message will be popular with seven out of ten recipients. However at a later time social network program has updated message data to indicate that only four out of the ten recipients viewed the message. In response feedback program reduces the weight of the rules that indicated the three recipients who did not view the message were predicted to be popular. In other embodiments prediction data is trained in response to a degree of satisfaction sent by user program by a user. After a user has posted a message the user gives an evaluation of the popularity score generated by feedback program. User program receives the evaluation from the user and sends the evaluation to feedback program . Based on the content of the evaluation feedback program trains the prediction data accordingly e.g. if a negative evaluation is given the weights associated to the rules that generated the score are reduced.

In process feedback program of social network server identifies that a new message is being created by a user. In response to receiving a request from a user of user device to create a new message user program sends the new message as the message is being created to feedback program . Feedback program proceeds to process once a message being created is received. In process feedback program determines a popularity score for the new message sent by user program in response to user program receiving input from a user creating a new message. Feedback program performs natural language processing to the message being created to determine the content of the message being created. Feedback program applies statistical models to the content of the message being created to create a popularity score using one or more of user data group data message data or prediction data . In some embodiments for messages with multiple recipients the popularity score is determined for each recipient as well as the popularity score among all the recipients of the new message being created. Once a popularity score is determined for the recipients of the new message being created feedback program proceeds to process .

In process feedback program generates a visual indicator based on the popularity score determined in process . In some embodiments feedback program generates a visual indicator for each recipient of the new message being created. The visual indicator is discussed in more detail in below. Once the visual indicator is generated feedback program proceeds to decision process .

In decision process feedback program determines if the popularity score generated in process is below a certain value. If the popularity score is below a certain value indicating the new message being created will be unpopular to the recipients then feedback program proceeds to process decision process YES branch . If the popularity score is not below a certain value indicating the new message being created will be popular among the recipients then feedback program proceeds to process decision process NO branch .

In process feedback program sends the generated visual indicator determined in process to user program for displaying on user device to the user. Embodiments of displaying the visual indicator are discussed below in . Once the generated visual indicator is sent to user program feedback program proceeds to decision process .

In process feedback program generates suggestions to increase the popularity score of the new message being created. The suggestions include content to add to the new message such as text and other media such as pictures audio or video such that the additional content will increase the popularity score among the recipients of the new message being created. Once the suggestions have been generated feedback program proceeds to process .

In process feedback program sends the generated visual indicator determined in process and suggestion to increase the popularity score determined in step to user program for displaying on user device to the user. Embodiments of displaying the visual indicator and suggestions are discussed below in . Once the generated visual indicator and suggestions are sent to user program feedback program proceeds to decision process .

In decision process feedback program monitors any alterations made to the new message as received from user program . If a user makes an alteration to the new message being created then feedback program proceeds back to process and determines a new popularity score based on the content of the altered new message decision process YES branch . Feedback program monitors new message information received from user program and generate a popularity score visual indicator and suggestions. If the user does not alter the new message being created and selects to post the message to social network program then feedback program proceeds to process decision process NO branch . In process compares the determined popularity score with message data after the message is posted. In response to determining a significant statistical difference between the determined popularity score and the recipients who viewed the messaged posted to social network program by the user feedback program updates prediction data accordingly. For example if the popularity score indicates fewer recipients than those who viewed the message as it was posted to social network program the feedback program decreases the weight assigned to the rules that made associated with the determined popularity score.

User interfaces and are illustrative examples of how information is collected and presented to a user of user device . User interface element illustrates an implementation of the invention where a user is creating a message that has been determined to have a popularity score above a certain value. User interface element illustrates an implementation of the invention where a user is creating a message that has been determined to have a popularity score below a certain value. User interface element illustrates an implementation where the popularity score and visual indicator are displayed for each recipient.

Each user interface and includes a recipient element and respectively. Recipient elements and contain one or more intended recipient elements and and and and . Recipient elements and provide an interface within user program for a user to add and remove recipients of a message. Intended recipient element and and and and are the recipients currently being addressed in the new message being created. Intended recipient elements may be added and removed to the recipient element and are sent to feedback program by user program for determination of the popularity score based on which particular users who are stored in user data the message is intended to be sent to.

Each user interface and includes new message elements and respectively. New message elements and are interface of user program for a user to create a new message. As the new message is being created the information contained within new message elements and is sent to feedback program by user program for determination of the popularity score in response to the content of the message being created.

Each user interface and includes insert file elements and respectively. Insert file elements and are interfaces of user program which users embed media rich content e.g. video or audio clips or links to other content into the message e.g. links to profiles stored in user data that are part of social network program or links to content located on servers outside the social network server such as hypertext links to other web pages. Feedback program is sent the updated message content by user program for determination of the popularity score in response to the content of the message being created.

Each user interface and includes overall popularity elements and respectively. Overall popularity elements and represent a visual indicator representative of the determined popularity score by feedback program . Based in part on the information currently represented by intended recipient elements and and and and and the information currently contained in new message elements and feedback program determines a popularity score and generates the overall popularity elements and . Feedback program sends to user program a visual indicator representative of the determined popularity score. User program displays the visual indicator of the popularity score as overall popularity elements and .

In these illustrative examples of user interfaces and overall popularity elements and are color coded icons with descriptive text contained within. For user interface element new message element contains content determined by feedback program to have a popularity score above a certain value for the intended recipients of the message as represented by intended recipient elements and . Feedback program generates a visual indicator representative of the determination of the popularity score and sends the visual indicator to user program which displays the visual indicator as overall popularity element . Since the popularity score is above a certain value overall popularity element is color coded as red to indicate that the message is popular as well as the textual message of HIGH being displayed alongside the color coded icon to further convey to the user the message will be popular. Conversely user interface currently contains information in new message element that has been determined have a popularity score below a certain value and will therefore be unpopular. User program receives a visual indicator from feedback program representative of this determination and displays the visual indicator as overall popularity element . In this particular case overall popularity indicator is color coded blue to in response to the popularity score determined to be below a certain value as well as the textual message of TOW being displayed alongside the color coded icon to further convey to the user the message will be unpopular.

User interfaces and includes overall suggestion elements and respectively. Suggestion elements and are displayed within user program when feedback program has determined the popularity score of message information contained in new message elements and respectively to be below a certain value. As such feedback program along with generating visual indicators indicative of the low popularity score also provides suggestions to user program that will increase the popularity score of the message when it is posted to all the respective intended recipients given the suggestions are included in the respective new message element. User program displays the suggestions in overall suggestion elements and respectively. In some embodiments such as user interface an overall suggestion element is not presented in user program given that the popularity score as determined by feedback program is above a certain value.

Each user interface and includes send elements and respectively. Send elements and initiates a posting of the message as stored in new message element and respectively to social network program . Social network program sends the message to the intended recipients as currently stored in recipient elements and respectively.

In the illustrative example of user interface intended recipient elements and also change appearance or have visual indicators based on the determined popularity score of the respective intended recipient. In this particular example feedback program determines the intended recipient of element has an individual popularity score above a certain value based in part to the current information of new message element . In this case the element is highlighted green to illustrate the particular user will likely view the message once posted. Feedback program also determines intended recipient as shown in element not likely finding the message popular and likely not view the message once posted. In this case intended recipient element is highlighted red in response to the popularity score determined to be below a certain value.

User interface also include personal suggestion element . In response to a particular recipient being determined to have a popularity score below a certain value by feedback program provides suggestions for the particular intended recipient with a relatively low popularity score. In a GUI environment element of user interface is a pointer mouse input of provided by user device . Given that a user has placed the mouse of intended recipient element a rollover text box appears as personal suggestion element . Personal suggestion element provides suggestions to increase the popularity score associated with the recipient of intended recipient element . In environments where touch is used to select GUI elements such as a tablet a tap or hold gesture initiates the display of personal suggestion element .

Visual indicators as generated by feedback program and displayed by user program are presented. Some embodiments of visual indicators may be symbols such as cross mark or checkmark . Other embodiments of visual indicators may be color coded icons such as a red colored bar and a green colored bar . In other embodiments the visual indicators may be text such as the words COLD of HOT . The above embodiments of the visual indicators are representative of the popularity score as determined by feedback program to be either below or above a certain value. In other embodiments feedback program may apply a visual style to the visual indicator such as a colored highlight or italicizing to the text message or the name of an intended recipient.

In embodiments where multiple intended recipients are part of the generation of the visual by feedback program visual indicators and may be used. In response to the number of intended recipients whose individual popularity score is below a certain value and the number of intended recipients whose popularity score is above a certain value a visual indicator is generated illustrating the portion of intended recipients who will find the post popular and view the message i.e. the colored in portion of versus the portion of intended recipients who will not find the post popular and not view the message i.e. the uncolored portion of . Visual indicators and illustrates a pie chart representation of the number of recipients you will likely view the message once posted. Visual indicators and illustrates a progress bar representation

User device and social network server respectively include communications fabric which provides communications between computer processor s memory persistent storage communications unit and input output I O interface s . Communications fabric can be implemented with any architecture designed for passing data and or control information between processors such as microprocessors communications and network processors etc. system memory peripheral devices and any other hardware components within a system. For example communications fabric can be implemented with one or more buses.

Memory and persistent storage are computer readable storage media. In this embodiment memory includes random access memory RAM and cache memory . In general memory can include any suitable volatile or non volatile computer readable storage media.

User program social network program and feedback program are respectively stored in persistent storage for execution and or access by one or more of the respective computer processors via one or more memories of memory . In this embodiment persistent storage includes a magnetic hard disk drive. Alternatively or in addition to a magnetic hard disk drive persistent storage can include a solid state hard drive a semiconductor storage device read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash memory or any other computer readable storage media that is capable of storing program instructions or digital information.

The media used by persistent storage may also be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage . Other examples include optical and magnetic disks thumb drives and smart cards that are inserted into a drive for transfer onto another computer readable storage medium that is also part of persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices including resources of network . In these examples communications unit includes one or more network interface cards. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links. User program social network program and feedback program may respectively be downloaded to persistent storage through communications unit .

I O interface s allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to user device and social network server respectively. For example I O interface may provide a connection to external devices such as a keyboard keypad a touch screen and or some other suitable input device. External devices can also include portable computer readable storage media such as for example thumb drives portable optical or magnetic disks and memory cards. Software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention e.g. user program social network program and feedback program can be stored on such portable computer readable storage media and can be loaded onto persistent storage via I O interface s . I O interface s also connect to a display .

Display provides a mechanism to display data to a user and may be for example a computer monitor or a television screen.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method that performs the process of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. That is a service provider such as a Solution Integrator could offer to provide feedback functionality in a social network. In this case the service provider can create maintain support etc. a computer infrastructure such as social network server that performs the processes of the invention for one or more consumers. In return the service provider can receive payment from the consumer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

In still another embodiment the invention provides a computer implemented method for providing feedback in a social network. In this case a computer infrastructure such as social network server can be provided and one or more systems for performing the processes of the invention can be obtained e.g. created purchased used modified etc. and deployed to the computer infrastructure. To this extent the deployment of a system can comprise one or more of 1 installing program code on a computing device such as social network server from a computer readable medium 2 adding one or more computing devices to the computer infrastructure and 3 incorporating and or modifying one or more existing systems of the computer infrastructure to enable the computer infrastructure to perform the processes of the invention.

The programs described herein are identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature herein is used merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature.

It is to be noted that the term s Java Smalltalk and the like may be subject to trademark rights in various jurisdictions throughout the world and are used here only in reference to the products or services properly denominated by the marks to the extent that such trademark rights may exist.

