---

title: Systems, methods, and devices for integrated product and electronic image fulfillment
abstract: The disclosure herein provides methods, systems, and devices for managing, tracking, and facilitating the ordering and procurement of promotional products. Additionally, the disclosure herein provides methods, systems, and devices for aggregating, managing, and tracking promotional product procurement data in order to allow for the data mining of such information. The disclosure herein provides methods, systems, and devices for enabling the generation of a virtual canvas for creating images sized for editable areas of a promotional product, website, brochure, banner, or the like. The disclosure herein provides methods, systems, and devices for enabling the generation of a virtual canvas for creating a rotatable image of a promotional product having positioned on the promotional product a user defined image. The disclosure herein provides methods, systems, and devices for enabling the generation of a single invoice comprising an invoice amount from a supplier and an invoice amount from a third party decorator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09104298&OS=09104298&RS=09104298
owner: TRADE ONLY LIMITED
number: 09104298
owner_city: Manchester
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20140509
---
The present application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 c to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 822 262 filed May 10 2013 and to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 835 421 filed Jun. 14 2013 and to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 937 010 filed Feb. 7 2014. Each of the foregoing provisional applications is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety including specifically but not limited to the systems and method relating to integrated product and electronic image fulfillment.

The disclosure relates generally to the fields of product manufacturing and fulfillment and image generation and more particularly to the fields of tracking and facilitating the manufacture and procurement of promotional product goods and of generating images for promotional products websites and the like.

In many industries companies will generally provide to potential customers and or existing customers promotional products. For example some companies will provide pens or pencils as promotional products to potential customers and existing customers in order to establish a rapport with the customer. Other examples of promotional products include hats shirts toys and other manufactured goods. In general these promotional products will be emblazoned with the company s logo and or company name. One of the purposes of these promotional products is to ensure that potential and existing customers will remember the name of the company. By remembering the company name the companies hope that the customer will select the company for new business.

In many instances the process for procuring such promotional products is a two stage process. In some cases a company will approach a distributor for procuring promotional products. In other instances the company will not engage a distributor but rather will directly engage the promotional products suppliers. As a first step of the process the distributor or the company will identify a supplier of raw promotional product goods for example t shirts. Generally suppliers will store raw promotional products that have not been emblazoned with a company name. These promotional products are then shipped to a decorator. After receiving the shipment of raw goods the decorator will affix the company logo and or name to the raw promotional products received by the supplier. For example a decorator may receive a shipment of raw t shirts. The decorator can then paint embroider and or sew on the logo and or company name to the raw t shirt product received from the supplier. Oftentimes this two step process will result in two separate invoices being generated one invoice from the supplier and a second invoice from the decorator.

In general the creation of two invoices can create confusion for a company that is only receiving ordering one type of promotional product. Additionally the bifurcated process of buying raw materials from a supplier and shipping the raw materials to a decorator for product finalization can result in the poor tracking of the fulfillment process. Additionally without a comprehensive tracking system the capture of data relating to the procurement of promotional products cannot occur. The capture of procurement data can be potentially useful for data mining purposes.

Additionally the creation of images for promotional products is often a laborious effort. In some instances the process of creating a teammate suitable for a promotional product must be performed by a professional graphic artist. By engaging a professional graphic artists or other consulting company the process for procuring promotional products is further complicated and made more expensive. Accordingly there is a need for a tool for allowing individuals to generate images for promotional products without having to engage a graphic artists or other consulting company. Such a tool for allowing individuals to generate images could also be utilized not only for promotional products but also for websites publications or any other item that an individual would like to place an image on.

The disclosure herein presents systems methods and devices for image generation for promotional products websites and other items. The disclosure herein presents systems methods and devices for generating a single view of or rotatable views of a virtual product sample. The disclosure herein presents systems methods and devices for generating a customer single invoice for a plurality of entities in a supply chain. The disclosure herein presents systems methods and devices for predicting inventory and trends.

In some embodiments a dynamic canvas processing controller comprises a third party website interface configured to receive user inputted area data from a third party website utilized by a user an image database configured to store electronic images a canvas dimension database configured to store area data relating to dimensions of canvases for areas a canvas processing engine configured to access the canvas dimension database to obtain dimension data based on the user inputted area data and configured to generate a virtual canvas comprising a canvas size based on the dimension data an image processing engine configured to cause display to the user the virtual canvas the virtual canvas configured to allow the user to generate an image in the virtual canvas a storing engine configured to receive instructions from the user to electronically store the image in the virtual canvas into the image database the third party website interface configured to transmit the image in the virtual canvas to the third party website to display the image to the user through the third party website and one or more computers configured to operate the dynamic canvas processing controller wherein the one or more computers comprises a computer processor and an electronic storage medium.

In some embodiments the areas are surface areas on promotional products. In some embodiments the areas are portions of websites. In some embodiments the areas are portions of online marketing campaigns.

In certain embodiments a dynamic canvas processing controller comprises a canvas dimension database interface configured for accessing a database configured to store area data relating to dimensions of canvases for editable areas a canvas processing engine configured to access through the canvas dimension database interface the database to obtain area data based on canvas data corresponding to a user selected editable canvas and configured to generate based on the obtained area data a virtual canvas comprising a canvas size having dimensions corresponding to the user selected editable canvas an image processing engine configured to cause display to the user the virtual canvas the virtual canvas configured to allow the user to generate an image in the virtual canvas a storing engine configured to receive instructions from the user to electronically store the image in the virtual canvas into an image database a display engine configured to cause display to the user the image in the context of a third party website and one or more computers configured to operate the dynamic canvas processing controller wherein the one or more computers comprises a computer processor and an electronic storage medium.

In some embodiments the editable areas are surface areas on promotional products. In some embodiments the editable areas are portions of websites. In some embodiments the editable areas are portions of online marketing campaigns.

In some embodiments a dynamic canvas processing controller comprises a third party website interface configured to receive a user selected item from a third party website utilized by a user an image database configured to store electronic images a items specifications database configured to store item data relating to rotatable image views of items a canvas processing engine configured to access the items specifications database to obtain item data based on the user selected item and the canvas processing engine configured to generate a virtual canvas comprising a canvas size based on the item data an image processing engine configured to cause display to the user the virtual canvas the virtual canvas configured to allow the user to generate an image in the virtual canvas a storing engine configured to receive instructions from the user to electronically store the image in the virtual canvas into the image database the third party website interface configured to transmit rotatable image views of the item to the third party website to display the item to the user through the third party website the transmitted rotatable image views of the item comprising the image in the virtual canvas the image positioned on the item and one or more computers configured to operate the dynamic canvas processing controller wherein the one or more computers comprises a computer processor and an electronic storage medium.

In certain embodiments a predictive inventory system comprises a third party website interface configured to receive a user selected item from a third party website utilized by a user a supplier database configured to store supplier pricing data and inventory data for a first supplier and a second supplier the supplier pricing data and the inventory data corresponding to the user selected item a decorator database configured to store decorator pricing data for a first decorator and a second decorator the decorator pricing data corresponding to processing the user selected item a prediction engine configured to determine based on the supplier pricing data and the decorator pricing data for the user selected item that the user will select the first supplier over the second supplier in combination with either the first or second decorator a notification controller configured to generate a first electronic notification to the first supplier that the user will likely select the first supplier and to increase inventory of the user selected item based the inventory data of the first supplier and one or more computers configured to operate the predictive inventory system wherein the one or more computers comprises a computer processor and an electronic storage medium.

In some embodiments the notification controller is configured to generate a second electronic notification to the first supplier that the user selected item comprises an upward trending popularity level based on tracking received user selected items from a plurality of third party websites. In some embodiments the notification controller is configured to generate a second electronic notification to the first decorator that the user will likely select the first decorator and to increase inventory of materials for decorating the user selected item.

In some embodiments a single invoice generation system comprises a third party website interface configured to receive from a third party website a user selected item a number of ordered user selected items from a supplier and a supplier invoice amount for the number of ordered user selected items the third party website utilized by a user a decorator database configured to store decorator pricing data corresponding to the user selected item for one or more decorators the third party website interface configured to transmit to the third party website the decorator pricing data corresponding to the user selected item for the one or more decorators the third party website interface configured to receive user selected decorator from the third party website a decorator interface configured to generate an electronic notification to the user selected decorator an order to decorate one or more of the user selected item the decorator interface configured to receive an decorator invoice number and a decorator invoice amount from the user selected decorator the decorator invoice number corresponding to the order an invoice generation controller configured to generate a single invoice comprising a total invoice amount and a supplier invoice number the total invoice amount comprising a summation of the supplier invoice amount for the number of ordered user selected items and the decorator invoice amount the third party website interface configured to transmit the single invoice to the third party website and one or more computers configured to operate the predictive inventory system wherein the one or more computers comprises a computer processor and an electronic storage medium.

In some embodiments the electronic notification comprises the decorator pricing data corresponding to the user selected decorator and the decorator interface receiving of the decorator invoice number constitutes verification of the decorator pricing data. In some embodiments the single invoice generation system comprises a payment processing controller configured to receive payment information data through the third party website interface the payment processing controller configured to process the payment information data to obtain payment for the total invoice amount. In some embodiments the payment processing controller is configured to cause payment of the supplier invoice amount to the supplier and to cause payment of the decorator invoice amount to the user selected decorator. In some embodiments the decorator interface is configured to store the decorator invoice amount in the decorator database based on determining that the decorator pricing data deviates from the decorator invoice amount by a predetermined percentage.

For purposes of this summary certain aspects advantages and novel features of the invention are described herein. It is to be understood that not necessarily all such advantages may be achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment of the invention. Thus for example those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention may be embodied or carried out in a manner that achieves one advantage or group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other advantages as may be taught or suggested herein.

Although several embodiments examples and illustrations are disclosed below it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the inventions described herein extend beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments examples and illustrations and include other uses of the inventions and obvious modifications and equivalents thereof. Embodiments of the inventions are described with reference to the accompanying figures wherein like numerals refer to like elements throughout. The terminology used in the description presented herein is not intended to be interpreted in any limiting or restrictive manner simply because it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific embodiments of the inventions. In addition embodiments of the inventions can comprise several novel features and no single feature is solely responsible for its desirable attributes or is essential to practicing the inventions herein described.

The terms marketing products and promotional products as used herein are broad interchangeable terms and unless otherwise indicated the terms can include within their meanings without limitation any sort of promotional products for example pens pencils mouse pads computer mouses flashlights apparel headwear footwear toys magnets notepads cups bottles bags and the like.

The disclosure herein provides methods systems and devices for managing tracking and facilitating the ordering and procurement of promotional products. Additionally the disclosure herein provides methods systems and devices for aggregating managing and tracking promotional product procurement data in order to allow for the data mining of such information. The disclosure herein provides methods systems and devices for enabling the generation of a virtual canvas for creating images sized for editable areas of a promotional product website brochure banner or the like. The disclosure herein provides methods systems and devices for enabling the generation of a virtual canvas for creating a rotatable image of a promotional product having positioned on the promotional product a user defined image. The disclosure herein provides methods systems and devices for enabling the generation of a single invoice comprising an invoice amount from a supplier and an invoice amount from a third party decorator.

Specifically the disclosure herein provides methods systems and devices for aggregating managing and tracking promotional product procurement data in order to allow for the data mining of such information. Such data mining can enable the systems disclosed herein to predict inventory requirements by suppliers predict which suppliers and or decorators will be selected for a particular project predict the time necessary for an order to be fulfilled by a particular supplier and or decorator predict which promotional products are trendy or will be trendy generate a probability that a particular price estimate will be accepted by a particular distributor or user or the like.

With the development of new technologies and various manufacturing techniques it is now possible for companies to purchase a variety of promotional goods with their logo and or name on such items. Companies find such promotional goods to be beneficial in maintaining brand recognition by their targeted customers. Accordingly companies are generally always looking for novel and interesting promotional products to provide to their target audience. New and novel promotional goods are believed to improve retention of the company s name in the minds of the targeted customers and name retention can lead to increased sales for a company.

Generally the process for procuring such promotional goods requires that a company purchase the raw promotional products from a supplier. Such raw promotional products generally do not have a particular logo or company name imprinted on the product but rather will have a space or an area on the promotional product in which a logo or company name can be positioned. In general suppliers are companies that warehouse large volumes of promotional products of varying kind. Such promotional products stored in a warehouse by suppliers are then made available to companies and or distributors that are engaged and or employed by companies looking to purchase promotional products.

After the promotional products have been purchased from a supplier the promotional products must be shipped to a third party decorator. In many cases the third party decorator will take the raw promotional goods received from the supplier and apply or position a company s logo and or name on the raw promotional products. For example the decorator can utilize a silk screening painting process to apply the company logo and or name. As another example the decorator can utilize various sewing and or embroidering techniques to apply the company s logo and or name to the raw promotional products. Other decorators or third party service providers are possible.

In general a decorator does not generally store and or warehouse large quantities of various sorts of promotional products. Rather in general decorators or other similar third party service providers are primarily in the business of taking in raw promotional products for a specific project and applying a particular company logo and or company name to the received raw promotional products. In general suppliers and decorators do not engage in the same line of business. In other words suppliers generally only warehouse raw promotional products and decorators generally only apply a company s logo and or name to raw promotional products.

In this process for procuring promotional products a company seeking to acquire promotional products will generally utilize the services of a distributor in order to obtain such products. Generally such distributors do not warehouse or retain large quantities of raw promotional products and such distributors generally do not apply a company s logo or name to raw promotional products. Rather a distributor merely receives an order from a company for a particular promotional product type and then hires a supplier to supply the raw promotional goods and will hire a decorator in order to have the company s logo and or name applied to the raw promotional goods. In some instances a company will not engage a distributor but rather will engage directly a supplier and a distributor in order to procure promotional products.

In either instance the company and or the distributor will receive two invoices for the purchase of the one particular promotional product type. Specifically the company and or distributor will receive a first invoice from the supplier for the purchase of the raw promotional products. The company and or distributor will receive a second invoice from the decorator to cover the cost of applying and or positioning the company s logo and or name to the raw promotional products. Oftentimes the receipt of two invoices for a single promotional product is confusing for a company. Generally the position of the company is that the company has ordered a single promotional product type and therefore should only receive one invoice for this one product type. Accordingly it would be advantageous to configure a system to generate a single invoice that can be presented to the company and or distributor wherein the single invoice can total the charges invoiced by both the supplier and the decorator.

Additionally it can also be advantageous for the system to be configured to track and monitor the progress for procuring the promotional products from the supplier and the decorator. Currently in order to track the procurement process a distributor and or a company would have to contact separately the supplier and or the decorator in order to obtain a status and or progress report. Therefore it would be advantageous for a system to be configured to automatically and dynamically obtain status and or progress data and information regarding the procurement of particular promotional products.

An additional challenge in the promotional product procurement process is the ability for suppliers and or decorators to predict the amount of inventory to keep on hand and or the amount of supplies that should be stored in order to fulfill orders by customers. Generally suppliers warehouse a plurality of promotional products not knowing which products will be hot sellers and which products will not appeal to customers. Further suppliers must keep large quantities of each of the various types of promotional products in order to satisfy the immediate demand of customers. The acquisition and storage of such large quantities of various types of promotional products can be quite costly and time consuming for suppliers. Additionally suppliers generally cannot predict what promotional products will experience a particularly popular trend and which products will immediately fall out of favor.

Accordingly it can be advantageous for a system to be configured to dynamically and automatically predict the amount of inventory of particular types of promotional products that a particular supplier should warehouse. Further it can be advantageous for a computer to be configured to predict what types of promotional products for example color product type product size product configuration and the like will be particularly popular during a particular period of time. Similarly for decorators it can be advantageous for the system to be configured to predict whether a particular decorator will be selected for a particular project. Further it can be advantageous for a computer system to be configured to predict the amount of supplies that a decorator should keep on hand in order to satisfy a customer s need for embroidering or painting a company logo and or name onto raw promotional products.

To address the foregoing issues there is disclosed herein various embodiments that solve and or address the issues raised above. In an embodiment the system is configured to display a catalog of available promotional products to a distributor and or customer. The system can be configured to allow the distributor and or customer to select a particular promotional product for purchase. In an embodiment the system can be configured to allow the distributor and or customer to upload a customer logo and or customer name for positioning on the promotional product. In an embodiment the system can be configured to display various options for supplying the promotional product to the distributor and or customer. For example the system can be configured to display a plurality of suppliers that can supply the raw promotional product to the distributor and or customer.

Further the system can be configured to analyze the uploaded logo and or company name to determine appropriate and available decorators for positioning or adhering the company logo and or name to the raw promotional product. In addition to providing a plurality of suppliers and or decorators the system can be configured to dynamically generate cost estimates for performing the client s desired work. The system can automatically and dynamically provide an estimate for the work of particular suppliers and or the decorators based on pricing data previously provided by the plurality of suppliers and the plurality of decorators. For example the system can be configured to generate a matrix of suppliers and or decorators and the cost and timeline for producing fulfilling the final product.

By displaying the various available suppliers and decorators along with price estimates for each to supply the distributor and or customer with the necessary goods and or services the system can be configured to receive from the distributor and or customer a selection of a supplier and or a decorator. The system can be configured to also receive from the distributor and or customer that a single invoice should be generated for both the supplier and the decorator.

In an embodiment the system can be configured to generate for the distributor and or customer a single invoice that includes the estimated charges for the supplier to prepare a single invoice that includes the cost of the supplier and the decorator. In an embodiment the single invoice can be generated on the supplier s letterhead such that the distributor and or customer pays the supplier the full amount of fees. Subsequently the supplier forwards payment to the decorator for services provided and rendered by the decorator. The advantages of a single invoice are numerous. For example the distributor and or customer only receives a single invoice and need not prepare several different checks for various venders. It is also advantageous for the supplier because the supplier can better address the needs of his distributors and customers. Further the supplier can act as a one stop shop for the needs of the distributor and or customer. Specifically the supplier can appear to be in the decorator business without having to actually start a decorator operation.

In an embodiment the single invoice can be produced on the decorator s letterhead whereby the initial payment is made to the decorator. The decorator thereafter can pay the supplier the necessary fees to cover the expense of the purchase of raw promotional goods selected by the distributor and or customer. In an embodiment the payment for the single invoice is received and processed by a third party service provider. The third party service provider can thereafter pay the supplier and the decorator the appropriate fees for the products and services provided by each.

In an embodiment the system can be configured to generate additional purchase orders and or work orders based on the single invoice that was generated for the distributor and or customer. In an embodiment the system can be configured to send the supplier a purchase order for the raw promotional product selected by the distributor and or customer. In an embodiment the system can be configured to generate and transmit to the decorator a work order for the services selected by the distributor and or customer. Based on purchase orders and work orders the supplier and or the decorator can proceed with fulfilling the orders.

In an embodiment the system can be configured to store in an electronic database the work order and or the purchase order such that data mining analytics can be performed on such data. In an embodiment the system can be configured to store data relating to a particular distributor and or customer and how that particular distributor and or customer selected a particular supplier and or decorator. This data can be utilized by the system in order to predict which supplier and or decorator the distributor and or customer is likely to select. In an embodiment the system can be configured to store in an electronic database data and information regarding a supplier s past delivery dates and other dates relating to the fulfillment of orders and or the completion of services. The system can be configured to use such historical data to determine whether a distributor and or customer is likely to select a particular supplier and or decorator.

In some embodiments a system can be configured to mine data and or to analyze various factors to determine why a specific supplier and or distributor would be chosen for a particular order and or project. In some embodiments the system can be configured to analyze various factors such as a size of an order a size of past orders average order size statistical information relating to past orders numbers of different items in order and various other historical factors relating to past orders. In some embodiments the system can be configured to calculate a probability that a user will select a specific distributor or supplier based on a potential change in the situation. For example the system can be configured to indicate to a distributor or supplier a suggested change to for example the distributor or supplier s markup price delivery or lead time manufacturing capability and or the like to increase that distributor or supplier s chances of the user selecting that distributor or supplier.

In some embodiments the system can be configured to generate and display a graphical indicator indicating chances of conversion of any particular order based on this data mining. For example the system can be configured to generate an image of a slider that slides to for example the left and right to indicate a decrease or increase in probability of conversion based on real time changes or potential changes the distributor or supplier is making to its markup price capability shipping time and or the like. In some embodiments the system can be configured to operate in the opposite manner. For example the system can be configured to enable a distributor or supplier to adjust the slider or to otherwise indicate to the system a desired probability of conversion and the system can be configured to then calculate and propose to the distributor or supplier what changes the distributor or supplier should make to its markup price capabilities shipping time lead time and or the like to match that desired probability of conversion. In some embodiments the system can be configured to automatically update one or more of these factors without requiring direct approval by the distributor or supplier based on a desired probability of conversion. Such features can be advantageous to among other things enable a distributor or supplier to increase its chances of conversion meaning a user selects that distributor or supplier for an order.

In some embodiments the system can be configured to analyze various factors that may be specific to certain distributors and or suppliers. For example in analyzing factors to determine a probability of conversion and to suggest changes in one or more factors to increase a probability of conversion the suggestions may be different for different distributors and suppliers. For example the system may be configured to analyze historical information and determine that all other factors being equal one distributor would be more likely to receive a specific order than a second distributor. Accordingly the system may determine or estimate that the second distributor would need to cut its margin and or adjust one or more other factors to a greater extent than the first distributor to equalize the probability or chance of a user selecting either of those two distributors. Such functionality can be advantageous to for example help enable a newer distributor or supplier that is not yet established in the industry to increase its chances of acquiring orders. On the other hand such functionality can also be advantageous to for example enable a well established supplier to price its items higher than other suppliers while still maintaining a higher probability of conversion. In some embodiments the system can be configured to take into account and or calculate elasticity of price. The system can be configured to take into account elasticity of price in data mining and generating probability of conversion estimates and or recommendations to distributors and or suppliers.

In some embodiments a system as disclosed herein can be configured to analyze and or mine data in real time or substantially in real time. Further the system can be configured to generate alerts for various users distributors and or suppliers of the system. For example the system can be configured to alert the user or customer when a distributor or supplier has made a change such as a price drop lead time drop and or the like that may interest that user or customer and or that the system determines may increase the likelihood that that user or customer may select that distributor or supplier. Such an alert may be configured to be sent to for example a user or customer s email address cellular telephone as a text message and or the like. In another example the system can be configured to alert a distributor or supplier when for example a user or customer is interested in placing an order for items that distributor or supplier is potentially capable of providing. In some embodiments such an alert may include data regarding what that distributor or supplier could potentially do to increase its chances of conversion of that order. For example the message may indicate to a supplier that a user is interested in ordering 1000 units of a specific item and that if the supplier sets its price at two dollars per item and a lead time of two weeks there is a 75 chance that supplier will get the order. It should be noted that these examples as with other examples disclosed herein are non limiting examples that are intended to illustrate particular capabilities of a system as disclosed herein but are not intended to limit the disclosure.

Additionally the disclosure herein provides methods systems and devices for managing tracking editing sharing and storing electronic images for use on promotional products or on any type of third party website or mobile application such as Facebook WordPress Instagram social networking website or system blogs ConstantContact or any other similar system or platform wherein a user has the need or desire to place an image in. The systems disclosed herein can be advantageous to users and or customers that need to create edit or use a particular image on multiple promotional products or within any type of third party website or mobile application that allows the upload of graphics or images or the like.

For example a user or customer may want to purchase a particular promotional product. The user will typically go to the website of the promotional product supplier. At the website the user will select the promotional product that is desired. Typically the user must then use the image editing tool provided on the website of the supplier. Often this image editing tool will only allow you to upload images. In other instances the image editing tool will allow a user to select an image from a database offered on the supplier s website. In other instances the image editing tool will allow a user to edit an image. Generally these image editing tools that are currently available on supplier websites do not allow a user to save a copy of the image they created to the account for future use with an alternative provider. It can be advantageous for the user to be able to access the image for future use at other product supplier websites. In many instances these image editing tools do not allow for the user to download high resolution files of the edited image. It can be advantageous for the user to be able to download a high resolution image such that the user can use the image in the future or keep a copy of the file for the user s records. Often these image editing tools do not allow the user to utilize the edited image on another supplier s website. It can be quite advantageous for the user to be able to use the edited image on multiple supplier websites in order to save the user time in having to re upload or re edit a previously edited image.

Alternatively the user must typically use an image editing software program such as Photoshop that is running on your local computer in order to edit and create an image. This process requires that a user is able to access such an imaging editing software and or that the user knows how to use all the features of such an image editing software program. For example the user needs to know how to set up the appropriate size canvas in the image editing software program in order to have the image appropriately displayed on a promotional product. After an image has been generated using the image editing software program the user must then save the file in the correct format and or with the correct size canvas and then upload the image to supplier s website. These numerous steps and as well as other steps can present challenges to a user or customer when purchasing a promotional product or when a user simply wants to upload an edited image to a website.

To address the foregoing issues among others there is disclosed herein various embodiments of a system for enabling an image editing tool to be embedded in multiple supplier websites or embedded in any other type of third party website or mobile application using an application programming interface API . One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate and understand that any of the systems methods and features disclosed herein can be used in conjunction with or be embedded in not only supplier or distributor websites but also with or in any other type of third party website or mobile application.

In an embodiment a supplier website can simply include HTML code and or other software code into the supplier s website which will enable an image editing software tool button to be displayed on the supplier s website. In an embodiment the image processing tool button can be displayed along a product sample offered by the supplier on the website. The user or customer can select the image processing tool button to activate the image processing utility. The image processing utility can enable a user to upload an image from the user s computer. In an embodiment the system can enable the user to select an image from an image database. In an embodiment the selected image can be an image previously generated by the user. In an embodiment the image can be a stock image available in the system. In an embodiment the system can be configured to allow the user to manipulate edit or otherwise utilize the image on a virtual canvas generated by the system.

In an embodiment the system can be configured to automatically generate a virtual canvas that is particularly sized for the promotional product selected by the user. For example the user can access the website of the supplier in order to peruse the available promotional products that are being offered by the supplier. The user can then select a particular promotional product for ordering. In order to customize the promotional product the user can then select the image processing tool button which can be configured to call the system to generate and display the image processing utility. The image processing utility can be configured to access a products database. In an embodiment the database can be provided by the supplier a third party or can be part of the system. In an embodiment the database can be configured to comprise canvas dimension data for the particular promotional products that are being offered by the supplier.

The canvas dimension data can be configured to be utilized by the system to generate a virtual canvas for display to the user. The virtual canvas can be particularly sized for the promotional product selected by the user. In an embodiment it is configured to prevent the user from positioning an image that is too big for the promotional product. In an embodiment certain promotional products are configured to only allow for particular surface areas to comprise an image. All areas outside of the particular surface area may not be suitable for adhering and or positioning an image to the promotional product. Accordingly a virtual canvas can be utilized to ensure that the user can position the user selected image onto the promotional product properly.

In an embodiment the system can be configured to allow the user to manipulate and edit the virtual canvas that has been generated for the particular promotional product. For example the system can be configured to allow the user to insert an image onto the virtual canvas. In an embodiment the system can be configured to allow the user to add text to the virtual canvas. In an embodiment the system can be configured to allow the user to add other elements to the virtual canvas such as lines circles triangles or other shapes colors imaging effects or the like. After the user is satisfied with the edited image on the virtual canvas the user can select a save button.

The system can be configured to save the edited image in the image database. The system can be configured to save the edited image to a local computer hard drive or to an online storage facility. In an embodiment the image database can be part of the system a third party system and or part of the supplier s website system. In an embodiment the system can also be configured to analyze the edited image and the canvas dimension data and the image data of the selected promotional product in order to dynamically generate in real time an image of the selected promotional product having the edited image positioned on the promotional product. In other words the system can be configured to dynamically generate in real time a virtual sample of the promotional product selected by the user. In an embodiment the system can be configured to transmit the image of the virtual product sample to the supplier website for display on the supplier s website.

In an embodiment the system can be configured to transmit the electronic image of the virtual product sample to the supplier s website such that the electronic image can be embedded in the supplier s web page directed to the promotional product selected by the user. In an embodiment the user can then finalize the order for purchasing the selected promotional product on the supplier s website.

In many instances a user or customer may purchase multiple promotional products from various suppliers or distributors. In such instances the user or customer may want to utilize the same image on other promotional products purchased from other suppliers or distributors. Accordingly the system can be configured to enable the image processing tool button to appear on the websites of other suppliers or distributors. In an embodiment other suppliers and or distributors can insert HTML code and or other software code to enable the supplier website to communicate over a network with the system disclosed herein. In an embodiment the communications between the supplier website and the system can be accomplished through an application programming interface API . With the image processing tool button available on multiple supplier websites the user and or customer can access other websites from other suppliers. After perusing the promotional products provided by other suppliers the user can be configured to select a particular promotional product for ordering. In an embodiment the website of the other supplier can be configured to allow the user to select the image processing tool button.

By selecting the image processing tool button the system can be activated to display the image editing utility. In an embodiment the system can be configured to access the canvas dimension data for the selected promotional product. As stated above the canvas dimension data can be accessed from a database that is provided by the other supplier by a third party or by the system. In an embodiment the system can be configured to generate a virtual canvas based on the canvas dimension data. In selecting a different promotional product from a different supplier the system can be configured to generate a different sized virtual canvas from that of the virtual canvas generated for the first promotional product ordered by the user. For example the new virtual canvas can be smaller bigger or the same size as the previous virtual canvas. In an embodiment the system can be configured to enable the user to manipulate the virtual canvas in order to insert an image into the virtual canvas.

In an embodiment the system can be configured to allow the user to access the image database in order to select the previously edited image that was positioned on the previous promotional product that was provided by the first supplier. In other words the system can be configured to enable the user to share and store previously edited images across multiple suppliers and or distributors. This feature can be particularly advantageous for a user or customer in order to reduce the necessary time for recreating the same image on multiple supplier websites wherein each supplier website has a different image editing tool. By enabling a common image editing system to be utilized across multiple supplier or distributor websites the user also benefits from not having to relearn a new image editing tool for each supplier or distributor. In other words the user need only be familiar with one look and feel of an image processing utility when purchasing promotional products from multiple suppliers and or distributors.

In an embodiment the system can be configured as an application service provider. For example the system can be configured to run as a cloud service. As a cloud service the websites of various suppliers and or distributors can be configured to embed HTML code and or other software code in the website of the supplier or distributor. The embedded HTML code and or other software code can be configured to enable the website of the supplier or distributor to call the system that is provided as a cloud service. In other words the supplier and or distributor website is operated separately from the system for providing the image processing utility.

In an embodiment the calling of the system by the website of the supplier and or distributor can be made seamless. For example when the user selects the image processing tool button it does not appear to the user that the user has left the website of the supplier or distributor even though what is being displayed on the user s screen is the image processing utility screen that has been generated by the system which is separate from that of the website servers operated by the supplier and or the distributor. This can be especially advantageous for the suppliers and or distributors because the suppliers and distributors need not create manage and or operate the image processing utility system. All that a supplier or distributor would need to do to utilize the image processing utility system would be to insert the necessary HTML code and or other software code into the websites of the supplier or distributor.

In an embodiment the system can be configured to display a login screen in order for a user or customer to access the image processing utility system. The user login information is necessary in order to ensure that the user has access to the user s previously edited and or saved images that are stored in the image database. In an embodiment the system can be configured to communicate with the supplier or distributor s website through an API in order to allow for automatic login of the user into the image processing utility system. In an embodiment the system can be configured to utilize the login information that the user provided to the supplier or distributor website in order to grant access to the user to the user s saved or stored images in the image database.

In an embodiment the system can be configured to generate an image file after the user has finalized and saved the image file using the image processing utility system. In an embodiment the system can be configured to access the products database to dynamically determine the type of image file that the system should return or transmit to the supplier and or distributor such that the supplier or distributor can position the image file on the customer selected promotional product. In many instances a supplier and or distributor will have a specific file type necessary for rendering the image onto the promotional product during the manufacturing process. Accordingly it is important for the image file type to be suitable for the manufacturing process. In an embodiment the system can be configured to dynamically determine the file type based on the promotional product type and or material of the promotional product and or surface finish of the promotional product and or the shape and or curvature of the promotional product. In an embodiment the system can be configured to dynamically determine the file type based on the supplier name or user customer name and or historical use data. In an embodiment the system can be configured to create an SVG file or an AI file or an EPX file or a PDF file or the like. In any embodiment the system can be configured to allow the user to download a high resolution image of the file that was saved using the image processing utility system. In an embodiment the system can enable the user to save the high resolution file onto a local computer for the user s reference and records.

In an embodiment any of the features disclosed herein of the image processing utility system can be configured to be embedded in a social networking website such as Facebook or a blog website such as WordPress or the like. By enabling connectivity between a social networking site blog website and the image processing utility system the user or customer can upload previously edited and saved images that have been stored in the image database onto a social networking website blog website. The user or customer can utilize the same images used on promotional products to also promote the user s goods and services on a social networking website blog website. This can be particularly advantageous for a user in order to have a consistent logo and look and feel across promotional products and various websites. In an embodiment the social networking website and or blog website can be configured to embed an image processing tool button next to each area of the website that can be customized by the user. For example a blog website can be configured to comprise an area in the blog page for the user s image. In an embodiment the blog website can be configured to embed an image processing tool button next to the area where the user can insert image to the blog page.

In an embodiment the features disclosed herein of the image processing utility system can be configured to be embedded in a third party website of any kind. For example the image processing utilities can be configured to be embedded in a website of a florist shop. In this example the florist shop website can comprise an editing tool button similar to the image processing tool button disclosed above. In an embodiment the editing tool button can be configured to allow a user to generate a personalized greeting card to be sent with the users selected flower arrangement. For example the image processing utility system can be configured to allow the user to upload or utilize a previously stored image as a basis for a greeting card. In an embodiment the image processing utility system can be configured to allow the user to insert a personalized greeting message into the customized card. The personalized greeting message can be inserted using any kind of stylized font. The foregoing features can be particularly advantageous for florist shops because typically cards are generated based on standardize greeting cards and messages that are inserted into the card in plain text based on user input. In an embodiment the system can be configured to perform batch processing as may be necessary for sending out a plurality of customized cards based on a mailing list. For example the system can be configured with an API or other interface that allows the user to upload a mailing list that may comprise one or more of the following a listing of recipients addresses for recipients a personalized message for recipients and the like. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the foregoing features can also be implemented in conjunction with other types of businesses in addition to florist shops.

In an embodiment the features disclosed herein of the image processing utility system can be configured to be embedded in a marketing website such as ConstantContact . In general marketing websites can allow users to generate online and email marketing campaigns. In an embodiment the marketing website can comprise an editing tool button or an image processing tool button. In an embodiment the tool button can be configured to allow a user to utilize the image processing utility system to create online marketing materials. For example a user can select the editing tool button on the marketing website in order to generate an online marketing campaign using previously stored images. In an embodiment the user can select the image processing tool button in order to create a new image for use in an online marketing campaign and the user can utilize the image processing utility system to save the newly created image for future use on promotional products or in other websites.

In some embodiments an image processing system is configured to know the image size requirements or constraints of a particular website product and or the like. The system can be configured to use this known size to generate an appropriately sized virtual canvas for a user to create and or edit an image for use with the website product and or the like. In various embodiments the system can be configured to determine the appropriate size of the virtual canvas in various ways. For example the system may obtain the canvas size from a database of known size requirements. In another example the system may be configured to obtain the required canvas size from code embedded in a webpage with the coded being placed in the webpage s code for the specific purpose of informing the system of the appropriate canvas size. In yet another example the system can be configured to dynamically analyze a product website and or the like to determine an appropriate canvas size. For example the system can be configured to analyze html code for a webpage to automatically determine the available space for an image. Such functionality may be particularly advantageous to enable the system to be utilized with webpages that have not been specifically designed to work with an image processing system as disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the system can be configured to once it has analyzed a webpage to determine an appropriate canvas size store in a database data relating to that appropriate size such that other users requesting to generate artwork or an image for that or a related webpage can utilize the same virtual canvas size without requiring the system to analyze the webpage again. In some embodiments the system is configured to periodically re analyze one or more webpages to confirm that the stored virtual canvas size information is still accurate. For example a website may alter one or more of its webpages making any stored virtual canvas data obsolete. In some embodiments the system can be configured to analyze a webpage and or an artwork area to confirm or verify an appropriate canvas size even if the webpage has data embedded within it intended to tell the system what the appropriate canvas size is. This can be advantageous because for example a website administrator may change a webpage in a way that affects the virtual canvas size but the website administrator may forget to update the code intended to tell the image processing system what canvas size is appropriate.

In some embodiments the system can be configured to enable a user to work with a virtual canvas that is bigger than an appropriate canvas area for the webpage product and or the like where the artwork is intended to be used. The system can be configured to then crop and or resize the artwork to the appropriate canvas size once the user has completed creating or making edits to the artwork. Such functionality can be advantageous to for example enable a single piece of artwork to be utilized on various webpages products items and or the like that each have different canvas sizes. In some embodiments the system can be configured to store cropping and or resizing data so that the system knows how an image or artwork should be cropped for each particular webpage item product and or the like.

In some embodiments a system as disclosed herein can be configured to be a home or repository for all of a user s graphical content or artwork. For example a system can be configured to store in a database various artwork items that can be used across a variety of webpages websites products promotional items and or the like. In some embodiments the system can be configured to store information relating to the canvas size requirements for each place where the artwork may be used and to enable a user to automatically crop and or resize a piece of artwork for a particular usage.

In some embodiments an image processing system or image processing utility system as disclosed herein can be configured to enable users to create images or artwork for webpages or other items that are not specifically designed to work with the image processing system. For example a webpage may enable a user to upload an image file such as a JPEG bitmap and or the like. However that webpage may not be specifically configured to work with the image processing system. The image processing system may be configured to enable the user to generate artwork using the image processing system and then to manually upload that artwork or image file to the webpage using whatever means for uploading image files the website provides.

In some embodiments an image processing system as disclosed herein can be configured to communicate with an order processing system. For example an image processing system can be configured to enable a user to generate artwork and then preview that artwork on a virtual product sample. The system can be configured to enable the user to then place an order for that item. Once the user has indicated a desire to order that item the image processing system can be configured to communicate to the order processing system an electronic link enabling the order processing system to access the artwork generated by the user. The order processing system can be configured to enable another user to perform any further edits required to the artwork before the artwork is placed on the physical product.

One benefit of such a system is that the original user such as the customer purchasing a product with artwork applied on it and a user of the order processing system such as an employee of the company producing the actual product can work off of the same artwork file. As an illustrative example a customer may desire to order 100 ceramic mugs with a picture on the mugs. The user can access a website to place an order for those 100 mugs. In the process of placing the order the website can enable the user to interact with an image processing system to create the artwork that comprises the picture. The user can position the picture superimposed text over the picture and make various other edits to the artwork. Once the user is happy with the artwork the website can be configured to display the artwork on a virtual product sample such that the user can see a rotating 360 virtual product sample representing the mug with the picture on it. Once the user selects to order this example a link can be electronically sent to a supplier of the mugs that enables the supplier to access the artwork. The supplier may access the artwork and determine that the color of text the user included superimposed over the picture may not be the best color and that the text may stand out better if the text were a different color. Accordingly the supplier may directly work on the artwork to update the color. The mugs can then be produced with that artwork and the updated artwork will be immediately accessible to the customer in case the customer wants to use that artwork for any other products.

In some embodiments the system can be configured to store different versions of images. For example in the mug example above the system may be configured to store both the original version and the updated version with a different color of text. The system can be configured to track any changes made to the artwork and enable a user to roll back changes if he or she desires. In some embodiments different versions of the artwork are stored in different files. In other embodiments the system is configured to store a base artwork file and to store tracked changes in a separate file or files.

As illustrated in the processing controller can be configured to be connected to a network . Through network the processing controller can communicate with a plurality of supplier access point . In an embodiment the processing controller can be configured to communicate with a plurality of decorator access points and a plurality of distributor access points and a plurality of user access points . In an embodiment the supplier access point can comprise a user interface a fulfillment ship processing database and a pricing database . In an embodiment the decorator access point can be configured to comprise a user interface an inventory ship processing database and a pricing database .

As depicted in the distributor access point can be configured to comprise a user interface and a distributor database . The user access point can be configured to comprise a user interface and a user database .

As illustrated in the system can be configured to generate and send supplier purchase order to the supplier. At block the system can be configured to generate and send a decorator work order to the decorator based on the processed order. At block the system can be configured to display the purchase order to the supplier. At block the system can be configured to process the purchase order in order for the supplier to ship the product to the decorator at block . In an embodiment the system can be configured to store the product ship date and related data at block within shipment and fulfillment database .

At block the system can be configured to process the work order received by the decorator. At block the system can be configured to facilitate the decorator in preparing to receive and fulfill the order. At block the system can be configured to track a receipt of the product from the supplier and store the product receipt date in database . In an embodiment the system can be configured to track fulfillment and or fulfill order progress at block and store such data in database . At block the system can be configured to facilitate the shipment of the completed product to the distributor and or the customer such that the product can be received by the distributor and or the customer at block . In an embodiment data relating to product shipment and product receipt can be stored in database .

At block the system can be configured to generate selection prediction and or inventory data predictions based on the data mining. At block the system can be configured to send such data to a plurality of decorators fulfillment companies . At block the system can be configured to generate distributor selection prediction data based on the data mining. At block the system can be configured to send such data to a plurality of distributors .

At block the system can be configured to generate fulfillment pricing shipping prediction data based on the data mining. At block the system can be configured to send such data to a plurality of users . At block the system can be configured to generate shipper selection prediction data and or inventory prediction data based on the data mining. At block the system can be configured to send such data to a plurality of shipping companies .

As illustrated in the processing controller can be configured to be connected to a network . Through the network the processing controller can be configured to communicate with a plurality of supplier access points and a plurality of user access points . In an embodiment the supplier access point can comprise a user interface a product database and a canvas sizing database . In an embodiment the user access point can comprise a user interface and a user database .

In an embodiment the user access point can be configured to access the supplier access point through network . For example the user access point can be a web browser acting as the user interface . The web browser on the user computer can interface with the user interface of the supplier access point . In an embodiment the user interface can be a web server. The user can browse the various products offered by the supplier through the web server which can be configured to access the product database . Once the user selects a product for possible purchase the user may then decide to add an image to the promotional product. In which case the user can select the image processing tool button available on the web page of the supplier. The selecting of the image processing tool button allows for activation of the processing controller . In an embodiment the user interface can be the image processing tool button that is selected by the user. In an embodiment the user can manipulate an image using the image processing engine through interacting with the user interface . The user can also access images stored in the user image database by interacting with the user interface . After finalizing an image to be appended to a promotional product the processing controller can be configured to use the image file generator to create an image file for transmission to the supplier access point through the supplier interface . In an embodiment the supplier interface can also be used to interface with the canvas sizing database . The canvas sizing database can comprise canvas dimension data for each particular product offered by the supplier. As disclosed above the canvas dimension data can be used by the image processing engine to create a virtual canvas for the user to manipulate and to create an image for appending to the promotional product.

In an embodiment the system can be configured to generate a single view of the virtual sample and in an embodiment the system can be configured to generate a virtual sample that allows a user to view the product from different angles by rotating the product for example a 360 degree view of the mug. To generate a virtual sample viewable from different angles in an embodiment the system can be configured to generate an animated GIF type image or a film strip of JPEG files or a holographic image file. In an embodiment the system can be configured to transmit the virtual product sample file either as a single view or multi view image file to a third party website for example the supplier website for display to a user through the third party website. In an embodiment the system is configured to generate and output a file for example an SVG EPS or other print ready artwork file for later use in manufacturing and or production of promotional products or use in a website or publication.

In an embodiment the system can be configured to analyze the image in order to determine the number of colors utilized in printing the image on a marketing product. In an embodiment the system can be configured to utilize the data regarding the number of utilized colors in order to dynamically calculate generate and or display the cost and or pricing for manufacturing and or producing the marketing product with the image.

In some embodiments the systems processes and methods described above are implemented using a computing system such as the one illustrated in . The example computer system is in communication with one or more computing systems and or one or more data sources via one or more networks . While illustrates an embodiment of a computing system it is recognized that the functionality provided for in the components and modules of computer system may be combined into fewer components and modules or further separated into additional components and modules.

The computer system includes a processing controller that carries out the functions methods acts and or processes described herein. The processing controller is executed on the computer system by a central processing unit discussed further below.

In general the word module as used herein refers to logic embodied in hardware or firmware or to a collection of software instructions having entry and exit points. Modules are written in a program language such as JAVA C or C or the like. Software modules may be compiled or linked into an executable program installed in a dynamic link library or may be written in an interpreted language such as BASIC letters PERL LUA or Python. Software modules may be called from other modules or from themselves and or may be invoked in response to detected events or interruptions. Modules implemented in hardware include connected logic units such as gates and flip flops and or may include programmable units such as programmable gate arrays or processors.

Generally the modules described herein refer to logical modules that may be combined with other modules or divided into sub modules despite their physical organization or storage. The modules are executed by one or more computing systems and may be stored on or within any suitable computer readable medium or implemented in whole or in part within special designed hardware or firmware. Not all calculations analysis and or optimization require the use of computer systems though any of the above described methods calculations processes or analyses may be facilitated through the use of computers. Further in some embodiments process blocks described herein may be altered rearranged combined and or omitted.

The computer system includes one or more processing units CPU which may include a microprocessor. The computer system further includes a memory such as random access memory RAM for temporary storage of information a read only memory ROM for permanent storage of information and a mass storage device such as a hard drive diskette or optical media storage device. Alternatively the mass storage device may be implemented in an array of servers. Typically the components of the computer system are connected to the computer using a standards based bus system. The bus system can be implemented using various protocols such as Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Micro Channel SCSI Industrial Standard Architecture ISA and Extended ISA EISA architectures.

The computer system includes one or more input output I O devices and interfaces such as a keyboard mouse touch pad and printer. The I O devices and interfaces can include one or more display devices such as a monitor that allows the visual presentation of data to a user. More particularly a display device provides for the presentation of GUIs as application software data and multi media presentations for example. The I O devices and interfaces can also provide a communications interface to various external devices. The computer system may include one or more multi media devices such as speakers video cards graphics accelerators and microphones for example.

The computer system may run on a variety of computing devices such as a server a Windows server and Structure Query Language server a Unix Server a personal computer a laptop computer and so forth. In other embodiments the computer system may run on a mainframe computer suitable for controlling and or communicating with large databases performing high volume transaction processing and generating reports from large databases. The computing system is generally controlled and coordinated by an operating system software such as z OS Windows 95 Windows 98 Windows NT Windows 2000 Windows XP Windows Vista Windows 7 Linux BSD SunOS Solaris or other compatible operating systems including proprietary operating systems. Operating systems control and schedule computer processes for execution perform memory management provide file system networking and I O services and provide a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI among other things.

The computer system illustrated in is coupled to a network such as a LAN WAN or the Internet via a communication link wired wireless or a combination thereof . Network communicates with various computing devices and or other electronic devices. Network is communicating with one or more computing systems and one or more data sources . The processing controller may access or may be accessed by computing systems and or data sources through a web enabled user access point. Connections may be a direct physical connection a virtual connection and other connection type. The web enabled user access point may include a browser module that uses text graphics audio video and other media to present data and to allow interaction with data via the network .

The output module may be implemented as a combination of an all points addressable display such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display or other types and or combinations of displays. The output module may be implemented to communicate with input devices and they also include software with the appropriate interfaces which allow a user to access data through the use of stylized screen elements such as menus windows dialogue boxes tool bars and controls e.g. radio buttons check boxes sliding scales and so forth . Furthermore the output module may communicate with a set of input and output devices to receive signals from the user.

The computing system may include one or more internal and or external data sources e.g. data sources . In some embodiments one or more of the data repositories and the data sources described above may be implemented using a relational database such as DB2 Sybase Oracle CodeBase and Microsoft SQL Server as well as other types of databases such as a flat file database an entity relationship database and object oriented database and or a record based database.

The computer system as shown in accesses one or more attribute filters . The attribute filters may be stored in a database or data repository. The computer system may access the one or more attribute filters through a network or may directly access the database or data repository through I O devices and interfaces . The data repository storing the one or more attribute filters may reside within the computer system .

The computer system also accesses one or more consumer verification databases . The consumer verification databases may be stored in a database or data repository. The computer system may access the one or more consumer verification databases through a network or may directly access the database or data repository through I O devices and interfaces . The data repository storing the one or more consumer verification databases may reside within the computer system .

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The headings used herein are for the convenience of the reader only and are not meant to limit the scope of the inventions or claims.

Additionally the generation of a virtual canvas for third party websites can be challenging because the systems disclosed herein can configured to work with hundreds or thousands of website each with hundreds or thousands of simultaneous web users. Therefore the systems herein must be configured to generate and manage thousands or millions of virtual canvases and images simultaneously. In an embodiment the systems can be configured to process virtual canvases and image data from various third party websites once every 1 second 2 seconds 3 seconds 4 seconds or 5 seconds. The sheer volume of data coming into the systems makes it impossible for a human being whether entirely in the person s mind or whether the person is using a pen and paper to track and or perform in real time or substantially real time for example within 1 to 30 seconds or 1 second to 1 minute the activities of the embodiments of the systems that are disclosed herein. Similarly it is impossible for a human being whether entirely in the person s mind or whether the person is using a pen and paper to generate in real time or substantially real time for example within 1 to 30 seconds to generate for hundreds or thousands of simultaneous users a rotatable image of an item having superimposed a user generated or defined image on the item whereas when the item is rotated the superimposed image is adjusted to correspond to the position of the item.

Although this invention has been disclosed in the context of certain preferred embodiments and examples it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention extends beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative embodiments and or uses of the invention and obvious modifications and equivalents thereof. Additionally the skilled artisan will recognize that any of the above described methods may be carried out using any appropriate apparatus. Further the disclosure herein of any particular feature aspect method property characteristic quality attribute element or the like in connection with an embodiment may be used in all other embodiments set forth herein. Thus it is intended that the scope of the present invention herein disclosed should not be limited by the particular disclosed embodiments described above.

