---

title: Action clustering for news feeds
abstract: One embodiment selects from a plurality of actions performed by one or more users of a social networking system a first action and one or more second actions, wherein each action has one or more attributes; computes a score for each second action by comparing the one or more attributes of each second action with the one or more attributes of the first action; ranks the one or more second actions according to the score computed for each second action; and selects from the one or more second actions one or more highest-ranking second actions as being related to the first action.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09256674&OS=09256674&RS=09256674
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09256674
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140123
---
This application is a Continuation application of U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 12 884 010 filed on Sep. 16 2010 by Wayne Kao et al. entitled Action Clustering for News Feeds which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to social networking systems and more specifically relates to clustering related actions received from users of a social networking system into action groups.

A social network in general is a social structure made up of entities such as individuals or organizations that are connected by one or more types of interdependency or relationships such as friendship kinship common interest financial exchange dislike or relationships of beliefs knowledge or prestige. In more recent years social networks have taken advantage of the Internet. There are social networks existing on the Internet in form of social networking systems. Such social networking systems enable their users who are commonly referred to as website users to perform various social activities. For example the social networking system operated by Facebook Inc. at facebook.com enables its users to communicate with their friends via emails instant messages or blog postings organize social events share photos receive news of their friends or interesting events use social applications etc.

The present disclosure generally relates to social networking systems and more specifically relates to clustering related actions received from users of a social networking system into action groups.

In particular embodiments users of a social networking system may perform various types of actions through the social networking system. For example they may organize social events share photos post messages or check in at specific locations using their mobile devices. The social networking system may receive these individual actions from different users at different times. In particular embodiments actions that are related to each other may be grouped together into action groups. For example if there is an event organized through the social networking system and there are photos taken at the event uploaded to the social networking system by multiple users attending the event the photos and the event may be grouped into the same action group because they are related.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may provide its users with news feeds concerning various subject matters or topics. In particular embodiments a group of related actions which have been grouped into the same action group may be presented together to a user of the social networking system in the same news feed. For example a news feed concerning the event organized through the social networking system may include information about the event such as its time location and attendees and the photos taken at the event which have been uploaded to the social networking system.

Particular embodiments select from a plurality of actions performed by one or more users of a social networking system a first action and one or more second actions wherein each action has one or more attributes compute a score for each second action by comparing the one or more attributes of each second action with the one or more attributes of the first action rank the one or more second actions according to the score computed for each second action and select from the one or more second actions one or more highest ranking second actions as being related to the first action. Particular embodiments may construct a news feed comprising the first action and the one or more highest ranking second actions and present the new feed to a first user of the social networking system.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

The present disclosure is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. However the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

A social networking system such as the one operated by Facebook Inc. and located at facebook.com enables its users to perform various types of actions through its web based interface. For example a user of a social networking system may search for other users of the social networking system specify individual users as friends communicate with friends or other users post messages organize social events share photos receive news feeds concerning specific topics use social applications developed by the social network itself as well as by third parties check in with the social networking system at different geographical locations and different times and so on. In the context of the present disclosure an action may be any action or any type of action that users of a social networking system are able to perform at or in connection with the social networking system. In particular embodiments each time a user performs an action at or in connection with a social networking system the corresponding system may record the action. Consequently the social networking system may record many actions performed by different users of the social networking system at different times.

Particular embodiments may cluster the individual actions that are related to each other into an action group. There may be any number of action groups where each group contains any number of related actions. The related actions from an action group may be performed by the same user of the social networking system at different times or by different users of the social networking system at the same or different times. Particular embodiments may then construct news feeds using the action groups where each news feed includes the related actions from the same action group. When these news feeds are transmitted to the users of the social networking system in the form of news feeds the related actions from an action group may be presented to a user together in the same news feed.

In particular embodiments action linker may receive individual actions performed by users of a social networking system as illustrated in step of and group related actions into separate action groups as illustrated in step of . In particular embodiments each action may have any number of associated attributes. The specific attributes each action has may depend on the type of that action. In particular embodiments action linker may examine and compare the attributes of the individual actions and derive additional information about the individual actions from their associated attributes in order to determine whether some of the actions are related e.g. whether there is some type of connection between the individual actions . The related actions are then clustered into separate action groups.

More specifically given a first action and any number of second actions particular embodiments may determine whether any of the second actions is related to the first action. To do so particular embodiments may compute a score for each of the second actions based on the attributes of each of the second actions and the attributes of the first action. For each second action particular embodiments may compare the attributes of the second action with the attributes of the first action and the score of the second action may be determined based on how well the attributes of the second action match the attributes of the first action. For example the more attributes of the second action and the first action match the higher score the second action may have. Particular embodiments may rank the second actions according to their respective scores. Particular embodiments may select one or more highest ranking second actions as being related to the first action. The highest ranking second actions and the first action may be grouped together into an action group. In particular embodiments there may be a predetermined score threshold such that only those second actions having scores that satisfy the score threshold are selected as being related to the first action. In this case if no second action has a score satisfying the score threshold then there may not be any action related to the first action.

In particular embodiments news feeder may construct news feeds using the action groups determined by action linker as illustrated in step of . In particular embodiments each news feed may include the related actions from a specific action group. In particular embodiments the news feeds may be transmitted to the users of the social networking system as news feeds. In particular embodiments the related actions may be presented to a user of the social networking system together in the same news feed.

There may be many actions performed by the various users of a social networking system each day. Particular embodiments may examine these actions to determine whether some of them are related from time to time as needed or on a periodic basis. For example the process illustrated in may be performed on an hourly daily or weekly basis or at some other interval or in response to a particular event or group of events.

In particular embodiments users of a social networking system are able to perform different types of actions at or in connection with the social networking system. For example a user may schedule and organize events through the social networking system establish photo albums and update photos to the social networking system check in with the social networking system at specific geographical locations post messages on the social networking system and so on. In particular embodiments each type of action may have different types of attributes. For example an event may have attributes such as title location time organizer invitee RSVP r pondez s il vous plait response and so on. A photo album may have attributes such as title album creation time photo upload time number of photos in the album tags and so on. A photo may have attributes such as title shoot time upload time location latitude longitude tags and so on. A check in may have attributes such as time location nearby business friends identified in connection with the check in a form of tag and so on. A message may have attributes such as title post time keyword privacy control level recipient name and so on.

In particular embodiments there are different ways to determine whether two actions e.g. a first action and a second action are related depending on the specific action types they are and the attributes they have. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable or applicable means to match and determine related actions. For example illustrates a method for determining events that are related to a photo album. In the terminology used above in this example the photo album may be considered as the first action and the events may be considered as the second actions.

Often people participating in a social event may take photos at the event and subsequently share these photos with their families and friends. A social networking system may enable its users to upload photos in order to share them with other users of the social networking system. A social networking system may also enable its users to schedule and organize social events. When users of the social networking system perform these actions e.g. organize events and upload photos it may be desirable to determine which photos are related to which event in order to group them together for display in a newsfeed interface.

Suppose a user of the social networking system has created a photo album and uploaded a number of photos to the social networking system and placed the uploaded photos in this photo album. Particular embodiments may determine whether there is an event organized through the social networking system that is related to the photos in the photo album e.g. the photos in the photo album have been taken at the event using for example the steps illustrated in .

Particular embodiments may determine a time window for the photo album as illustrated in step . In particular embodiments the time window may be from the time when the album was created to the time when the last photo was uploaded into the album. The different times may be determined from the attributes associated with the photo album and the attributes associated with the individual photos in the album. For example the time the album was created may be determined using the album creation time attribute associated with the photo album. The time the last photo was uploaded into the album may be determined by examining the photo upload time attribute associated with each of the photos in the album and selecting the photo with the latest upload time. Suppose an example photo album was created on Jan. 10 2010 at 10 20 am and the last photo was uploaded into this album on Jan. 16 2010 at 20 45 pm. Then the time window for this photo album is from 10 20 am Jan. 10 2010 to 20 45 pm Jan. 16 2010.

Particular embodiments may locate people associated with the album who are considered important as illustrated in step . In particular embodiments the important people associated with an album may include the creator or owner of the album and the people who have uploaded photos into the album if they differ from the creator of the album.

The photos in the album may have associated tags some of which may include the names of the people in the photos. In particular embodiments a photo of two friends Mary Smith and Jane Johnson may be tagged with the names of these two people. Alternatively in particular embodiments a photo of two friends Mary Smith and Jane Johnson may be tagged with the actual persons Mary Smith and Jane Johnson e.g. using their unique user identifiers at the social networking website . In this case if there are two users who have the same name e.g. Mary Smith since they have different user identifiers the tag may still distinguish which Mary Smith is actually in the photo. Particular embodiments may examine the tags associated with the album as well as the tags associated with each of the photos in the album to locate people s names in these tags. Suppose Mary Smith and Jane Johnson have attended an event together. It is then likely that they may be in several photos taken at this event either individually or together with each other or with other people attending the same event. Consequently their names may be found in the tags associated with multiple photos in the album. Particular embodiments may determine the number of times each name appears in the tags associated with the album and with the photos in the album. In particular embodiments the important people associated with the album may also include a number of people whose names appear most frequently in the tags associated with the album or with the photos in the album i.e. the most frequently tagged people . For example the top N e.g. 5 or the top n e.g. 10 most tagged people in the album may be included in the list of important people associated with the album.

Particular embodiments may determine a list of candidate events potentially related to the photo album using the time window and the list of important people associated with the photo album as illustrated in step . To determine the list of candidate events for a photo album particular embodiments may select all the events organized through the social networking system that occur shortly before e.g. within one week before the creation time of the album and during the time window associated with the photo album and are attended by at least one important person associated with the photo album.

In connection with the above examples suppose Mary Smith is considered an important person associated with the photo album because the number of times her name appears in the tags associated with the photos in the album is above the threshold selected for the important people. Further suppose that Mary Smith has attended four events occurring on Dec. 25 2009 Jan. 8 2010 Jan. 13 2010 and Feb. 3 2010 respectively. In this case the two events occurring on Jan. 8 2010 and Jan. 13 2010 respectively may be included in a list of candidate events that is potentially related to the photo album described in the above example which has a time window from 10 20 am Jan. 10 2010 to 20 45 pm Jan. 16 2010 as these two events occur shortly before and during the time window associated with the photo album. On the other hand the two events occurring on Dec. 25 2009 and Feb. 3 2010 are not included in the list of candidate events because they occur far outside the time window associated with the photo album. As another example suppose there is an event occurring on Jan. 15 2010 which is within the time window associated with the above example photo album. But this event may not be included in the list of candidate events for the example photo album if none of the important people associated with the example photo album has attended this event.

Particular embodiments may determine which person has attended which event by examining the attributes associated with each event. For example particular embodiments may examine the organizer the invitees and the RSVP responses of the event to determine who have attended that event and then match the names of the event attendees with the names of the important people associated with the photo album.

Particular embodiments may score each candidate event with respect to the photo album based on the attributes associated with the candidate event and the attributes associated with the photo album as illustrated in step . Given a specific candidate event particular embodiments may assign an initial default score e.g. 0 to the event and then adjust e.g. increase or decrease the score of the event based on comparisons made between the candidate event and the photo album or between specific attributes associated with the candidate event and attributes associated with the photo album. Many different types of comparisons may be used for adjusting the score of a candidate event and the present disclosure contemplates any suitable and applicable type of comparison.

In particular embodiments for each person who is tagged at least once with the photos in the album if this person has attended the event then the score of the event may be increased by some value. Conversely if this person has not attended the event then the score of the event may be decreased by some value.

In particular embodiments the title of a candidate event and the title of the photo album may be compared. If the two titles match then the score of the candidate event may be increased by some value. Conversely if the two titles do not match then the score of the candidate event may be decreased by some value. In particular embodiments when comparing the title of the candidate event with the title of the photo album it may not be necessary for the two titles to match exactly word by word. Particular embodiments may ignore words such as the a at in on etc. and match only the keywords e.g. nouns or adjectives found in the two titles and if there are sufficient number of common keywords found in the two titles particular embodiments may still consider the two titles match.

For example suppose the title of a photo album is new year celebration party 2010 . Further suppose that one candidate event for the photo album has a title new year celebration party 2010 and another candidate event for the photo album has a title 2010 celebration party at Mary s place . The title of the first candidate event matches exactly the title of the photo album. Thus the score of the first candidate event may be increased by some value. However for the second candidate event there are several keywords e.g. celebration party 2010 common to the title of second candidate event and the title of the photo album that a match may still be found between these two titles. As a result the score of the second candidate event may also be increased by some value. In particular embodiments the actual value increased for the score may differ between the two cases. For example if a candidate event s title matches exactly the title of the photo album the score of that candidate event may be increased by a relatively large value e.g. 5 . On the other hand if a candidate event s title does not match exactly the title of the photo album but there is a sufficient number of keywords found in the candidate event s title that match keywords in the title of the photo album the score of that candidate event may be increased by a relatively small value e.g. 1 .

In particular embodiments the location of a candidate event and the location of the photos in the photo album may be compared. If the two locations match then the score of the candidate event may be increased by some value. Conversely if the two locations do not match then the score of the candidate event may be decreased by some value. The location of the candidate event may be determined from the attributes e.g. the location attribute associated with the candidate event. The location of the photos in the photo album may be determined from attributes or tags associated with the photos. For example a photo may have metadata or tags indicating the geographical location latitude or longitude of the place where the photo was taken which may be used to determine the location of the photo.

In particular embodiments the time of a candidate event and the time of the album or of the photos in the photo album may be compared. If the two times match then the score of the candidate event may be increased by some value. Conversely if the two times do not match then the score of the candidate event may be decreased by some value. The time of the candidate event may be determined from the attributes e.g. the event time attribute associated with the candidate event. The time of the photos in the photo album may be determined from attributes or tags associated with the photos. For example a photo may have metadata or tag indicating the time when the photo was taken which may be used to determine the time of the photo. If a photo was taken at a time when the candidate event was in progress then particular embodiments may consider there is a time match between the photo and the candidate event. Conversely if a photo was taken either before or after the time when the candidate event occurred then particular embodiments may consider that the photo and the candidate event do not match in time.

In particular embodiments the RSVP responses of a candidate event may be compared with the people tagged with the photos in the photo album. Often when a person organizes an event the event organizer may have a list of invitees for the event and send out invitations to these invitees with information about the event. The organizer may request each invitee to respond to the invitation and indicate whether the invitee will attend the event. The responses from the invitees are often referred to as RSVP responses. Typically an invitee may reply to the invitation in one of three ways yes i.e. will attend the event no i.e. will not attend the event and maybe i.e. uncertain may or may not attend the event . In addition it is possible that an invitee may not reply to the invitation and provide any RSVP response.

In particular embodiments each invitee s RSVP response for the candidate event may be compared with the people tagged with the photos in the photo album and the score of the candidate event may be adjusted based on the result of the comparisons. For example if a person tagged with the photos has provided a yes RSVP response to the candidate event then the score of the candidate event may be increased by a relatively large value e.g. 5 . If a person tagged with the photos has provided a maybe RSVP response then the score of the candidate event may be increased by a relatively small value e.g. 2 . If a person tagged with the photos has provided a no RSVP response then the score of the candidate event may be decreased by a relatively large value e.g. 10 .

In particular embodiments for those invitees of the candidate event who have not provided any RSVP response each of such invitees may be compared with the people tagged with the photos in the photo album. For example if a person tagged with the photos is an invitee who has not provided any RSVP response then the score of the candidate event may be increased by a relatively small value e.g. 1 or 2 .

In particular embodiments if a person tagged with the photos is not an invitee of the candidate event then the score of the candidate event may be decreased by some value. A person who is not an invitee of a particular event is unlikely to have attended that event. Therefore if such a person appears in a photo it suggests that the photo is not taken at the event in question.

A score is determined for each candidate event of the photo album using any suitable means. In particular embodiments the scores of the candidate events may be normalized by the sizes of the events e.g. the score of a particular event may be divided by the number of people attending that event .

Particular embodiments may select the candidate event that has the highest score among all the candidate events to be the event relating to the photo album as illustrated in step . In particular embodiments there may be a score threshold such that an event that is considered to be related to a photo album should have a score above the score threshold. In this case if no candidate event has a score above the score threshold then the photo album may not have any related event.

Once an event has been determined to be related to a photo album particular embodiments may construct a news feed that includes both the event and the photo album. The news feed may be formatted for display and transmitted to specific users of the social networking system e.g. users who have attended the event as news feeds.

A news feed also referred to as web feed is a data format typically used for providing network users with frequently updated content. In one implementation the news feed is formatted using the Activity Streaming protocol. In particular embodiments a social networking system may provide various news feeds to its users where each news feed includes content relating to a specific subject matter or topic. Various pieces of content relating to a particular topic may be aggregated into a single news feed. Individual users of the social networking system may subscribe to specific news feeds of their interest.

Although illustrates a process designed to determine an event that is related to a photo album the similar concept may be apply to link any type of actions performed by the users of a social networking system. For example messages posted to the social networking system by different users may be linked to particular events by matching the various attributes of the messages e.g. time title keywords posting user etc. with the attributes of the event e.g. time title keywords attendee etc. . In news feed includes information about an event called Unofficial Games Hackathon and two messages posted by two users of the social networking system attending the event. Similarly news feed includes information about an event called The Mon s Kettle and two messages posted by two users of the social networking system attending the event.

In addition the present disclosure may be configured to match check ins to photos and photo albums. Check ins include similar attributes to events in that a given check in record identifies one or more users a location a location name and a time. Check ins may also be associated with comments and other data. One or more attributes of the process illustrated in can be readily extended to match check ins to photos.

Social networking system may maintain a database of information relating to places. Places correspond to various physical locations such as restaurants bars train stations airports and the like. Some places may correspond to larger regions that themselves contain places such as a restaurant or a gate location in an airport. In one implementation each place can be maintained as a hub node in a social graph or other data structure maintained by the social networking system as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 171. Social networking system may allow users to access information regarding each place using a client application e.g. a browser hosted by a wired or wireless station such as a laptop desktop or mobile device. For example social networking system may serve web pages or other structured documents to users that request information about a place. In addition to user profile and place information the social networking system may track or maintain other information about the user. For example the social networking system may support geo social networking system functionality including one or more location based services that record the user s location. For example users may access the geo social networking system using a special purpose client application hosted by a mobile device of the user or a web or network based application using a browser client . The client application may automatically access Global Positioning System GPS or other geo location functions supported by the mobile device and report the user s current location to the geo social networking system. In addition the client application may support geo social networking functionality that allows users to check in at various locations and communicate this location to other users. A check in to a given place may occur when a user is physically located at a place and using a mobile device access the geo social networking system to register the user s presence at the place. As described below a user may select a place from a list of existing places near to the user s current location or create a new place. The user may also provide comments in a text string when checking in to a given place. The user may also identify one or more other users in connection with a check in such as friends of a user and associate them with the check in as well. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 574 614 which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes describes a system that allows a first user to check in other users at a given place. An entry including the comment and a time stamp corresponding to the time the user checked in may be displayed to other users. For example a record of the user s check in activity may be stored in a database. Social networking system may select one or more records associated with check in activities of users at a given place and include such check in activity in web pages or other structured documents that correspond to a given place. For example social networking system may select the check in activity associated with the friends or other social contacts of a user that requests a page corresponding to a place. U.S. application Ser. No. 12 858 718 incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes describes an example geo social networking system that can be used in connection with various embodiments of the present invention.

Similarly the present disclosure may be configured to match multiple photo albums created by different users of a social networking website to each other. For example suppose several users of the social networking website attended the same event or participated in the same activity. Some of these users may take photos at the event. Subsequently several users may each create a photo album in connection with their own user accounts at the social networking website and upload the photos they each took at the event to their respective photo albums. Each photo album may have one or more attributes and tags associated with it. And the photos in each album may have associated tags and attributes as well. These attributes and tags may be used to link the photo albums of different users together.

In particular embodiments a first photo album created by a first user who has attended an event may include photos taken at the event by the first user. The process illustrated in may be modified to find one or more second photo albums created by one or more second users where each second photo album includes photos taken at the same event by a second user who has also attended the event. A set of candidate photo albums may be selected from all the photo albums created by the users of the social networking website. A score may be determined for each candidate photo album using the attributes and tags of the first photo album and the photos in the first photo album and the attributes and tags of the second photo album and the photos in the second photo album. The candidate photo albums may be ranked based on their respective scores. One or more highest ranking candidate photo albums may be selected as the one or more second photo albums. In particular embodiments the selected second photo albums are each considered to include photos relate to the photo in the first photo albums e.g. photos taken at the same event .

Particular embodiments may be implemented in a network environment. illustrates an example network environment suitable for providing software validation as a service. Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wireline wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiment each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .

In particular embodiments each client may be a computing device such as a desktop computer or a work station or a mobile device such as a notebook computer a network computer or a smart telephone. Each client has network capabilities.

In particular embodiments a client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

Web browser may be adapted for the type of client it resides. For example a web browser residing on a desktop computer may differ e.g. in functionalities from a web browser residing on a mobile device. A user of a social networking system may access the website via web browser .

Particular embodiments may be implemented on one or more computer systems. illustrates an example computer system . In particular embodiments one or more computer systems perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

