---

title: User-controlled centralized privacy marketplace system
abstract: A system for managing personal information of a user includes: a personal information database including personal information records of the user including data associated with the user, wherein a user is associated with a data policy including at least one permission for an accessing party to interact with a personal information record; and a data access module that receives and responds to requests from an accessing party, wherein a request may be one of: a read request specifying a personal information record to be read; and a write request specifying a personal information to be written to a personal information record to be written, wherein in response to a write request, the data access module responds with the a personal information record to be read, or updates the personal information record to be written in the personal information database, if permitted by the personal information record the privacy policy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09405930&OS=09405930&RS=09405930
owner: 
number: 09405930
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140312
---
This application incorporates by reference and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 776 929 filed Mar. 12 2013.

The present subject matter relates generally to systems and methods for centralizing the management and control of personal information to the consumer. More specifically the present invention relates to a marketplace for users to share personal information with businesses by creating and subscribing to privacy policies joining privacy pools or promoting privacy policy subscriptions to other users.

The vast quantity of personal information that is generated and monitored has become unmanageable. Countless companies and organizations record and track consumer activities and attributes and the resulting personal information is distributed over a vast array of websites and databases of these third parties. For example personal information for consumers is tracked by businesses industries and analytics systems employed to target consumers with marketing and sales campaigns based on their buying and browsing history. Likewise personal information for banking customers is tracked and managed by financial institutions to target customers with marketing and sales campaigns based on their spending and money management histories. Further personal information for medical patients is collected managed and used by individual medical providers or groups of providers government agencies e.g. Medicare and third party insurance agents and their consultants to provide personalized medical services.

These third parties have traditionally had separate collection policies that may be difficult or impossible for consumers to manage or control. Consumers have wanted to know what personal information is collected and manage how it is used. Moreover consumers have wanted mechanisms to share personal information to third parties they trust to receive services they want or need like personalized deals medical services or banking services. However existing systems do not provide mechanisms for consumers to manage control share or sell their personal information.

Third parties often have a legitimate need for some or all of the data they collect. Third parties often include data service providers that use personal data to provide custom services to consumers. For example a chain store may use personal data to generate useful deals a doctor may use personal data to give health advice and a bank may user personal information to give a discount on a loan etc. To most efficiently provide these services data service providers often need up to date accurate holistic information.

However personal information collected by third parties is inherently flawed because they do not contain the whole picture of the living habits of any particular individual. Rather third parties collect only those bits of data from which the third party has direct tracking capabilities such as when a consumer shares personal information in the purchase of a product. In some instances third parties may purchase additional bits and pieces of personal information from data vendors. However personal information from data vendors is also fragmented and incomplete.

Further data service providers and other third parties have desired to provide consumers greater access and control to their data but have limited means to do so. Consumers have often been overwhelmed by the number of businesses that collect their personal data and may not know where to begin to find and use all of the prior mechanisms created by data service providers and other third parties to permit access and control to their data.

What has been needed is a system that centralizes the access distribution and control of personal information. Further what has been needed is a centralized system to learn about one s personal information stored across different databases and websites. Even further what has been needed is a system to allow data service providers to access users personal information under the control of users.

Accordingly there is a need for a privacy marketplace system that centralizes the management and control of personal information to the user as described herein.

To meet the needs described above and others the present disclosure provides a privacy marketplace system that centralizes the management and control of personal information to the user. More specifically the present invention relates to a marketplace for users to share personal information with businesses by creating and subscribing to privacy policies joining privacy pools or promoting privacy policy subscriptions to other users.

The privacy marketplace system may collect into a central database the personal information provided by a user and personal information of that user stored by various third parties. This collection process may be automatic and routine so that the information in the centralized database is up to date. Information may be collected in various bins of related personal information. A user may view the information make corrections as needed and populate new information. Changes to the centralized database may be pushed back out to third parties according to privacy policies to keep information up to date.

A privacy policy specifies what personal information a business may collect about a user and permits the business to access the same personal information from the privacy marketplace system if available. In some embodiments businesses may be enabled by the privacy marketplace system to compensate users for a subscription to a privacy policy.

In the present application when a consumer permits one or more businesses to collect and access data about her according to a privacy policy the consumer is said to subscribe to that privacy policy. Likewise when a business agrees to manage and receive access to a user s personal information according to a privacy policy the business is also said to subscribe to the policy for that user. It is contemplated that one consumer may subscribe to one policy with a business and another consumer may subscribe to a different policy with the same business in accordance with each consumers preferences. Additionally multiple consumers and businesses may be subscribed to any given privacy policy.

A privacy pool is a collection of consumers that have pooled together to collectively subscribe to one or more privacy policies. A privacy pool may include a group of businesses that agree to be bound by the privacy policies of the pool. In some embodiments a user may only join a privacy pool by the referral of an existing user. This permits users to be compensated for referrals as part of a multi level marketing plan.

In an embodiment a user may use a device to interact with the privacy marketplace system over a network such as the Internet. Using the privacy marketplace system the user may create edit and subscribe to various privacy policies interact with other users join groups of people with related privacy interests interact with business and other related privacy and social networking activities. A business may use the privacy marketplace system to receive personal information of users at its business servers promote business privacy policies and otherwise interact with users.

The privacy marketplace system may be embodied in a server including a controller and instructions to carry out the functionality of the privacy marketplace system as described herein. The privacy marketplace system may further include a mobile application including instructions that when executed by a device communicate with the server carry out the functionality described herein. The privacy marketplace system may provide a user interface that the user may access to use the functionality provided by the privacy marketplace system.

In an example a user profile screen may be provided by the privacy marketplace system. The profile screen may show the privacy policies to which a user has privacy policy subscriptions. For each privacy policy subscription the profile screen may show the rewards that the user has received from that policy. The profile screen may also show the privacy pools to which the user is a member. Further the profile screen may show the user s friends in the privacy marketplace system. When a user is visiting her own user profile screen a news feed may list the user activity of the user s friends.

In an example a privacy policy editing screen may be provided by the privacy marketplace system to allows users to configure permissions for various information bins of a privacy policy such as demographics home health financial business etc. Each bin may include sub bins and sub bins may be subdivided into further sub bins. When editing a policy a user may for example indicate with a privacy input whether a business may collect a particular item of information share information with third parties and or access items of information from the privacy marketplace system. The user may further for example indicate if items of information collected by a business may be kept permanently or must be held only temporarily such as a period of ninety days. To permit the user to understand the information a category of information refers to previews of the information of the user may be presented. An edit history box may show the editing history of the privacy policy.

The privacy marketplace system may additionally include a privacy policy subscription screen to describe a privacy policy offer e.g. an invitation to subscribe to a privacy policy including the business or businesses to which the privacy policy will apply. The privacy policy subscription screen may include a list of rewards that are offered for subscribing to the privacy policy. A policy preview may describe the access terms of the privacy policy. A subscribed friends box may show the user those friends in the privacy marketplace system that have subscribed to the privacy policy. In other embodiments if a business does not currently offer privacy policy subscriptions to a particular privacy policy the privacy policy subscription screen may provide a mechanism to contact a business about offering privacy policy subscriptions for the privacy policy.

When a user subscribes to a privacy policy she may be encouraged to share her privacy policy subscription with her friends. Details of the privacy policy subscription may be populated in a user news feed of the privacy marketplace system. The user may also be provided the option of sharing her privacy policy subscriptions to other social networks blogs or social media platforms.

A privacy policy may include the privacy policy contract between the users one or more businesses and the privacy marketplace system that specifies the obligations that bind the parties regarding personal information. A privacy policy may include one or more privacy policy data files used by the privacy marketplace system that include information describing the privacy policy. The privacy policy data files may include free form text contractual provisions structured data formats electronic signatures membership lists identifying information and other information that one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize as describing the rights obligations and agreement between the parties.

A privacy pool may be built around a current or proposed privacy policy. Users may join a privacy pool to encourage businesses to adopt a privacy policy. In some embodiments businesses may join together to form privacy pools to promote particular privacy policies.

A user may join and participate in a privacy pool using a privacy pool screen. The privacy pool screen may include a pool description and a preview of a privacy policy associated with a privacy pool. A user may click a join button to join the privacy pool. A membership section may include information about current members such as profile links membership numbers a directory etc. The privacy pool may include membership actions for example the user may choose to edit the privacy policy write a letter to target businesses to promote the privacy policies of the privacy pool propose to target a business to accept the privacy policies of the privacy pool or get a code for this policy that would generate an access token described below to easily direct businesses to the privacy policy for subscription.

In some embodiments a privacy pool may have multiple privacy policies as candidate privacy policies alternate privacy policies for members etc. For example a privacy pool might be created to promote an existing privacy policy promulgated by a business. Alternatively a privacy pool may be created to promote the privacy needs of certain communities. As yet another example a privacy pool may be created to maximize the rewards received from businesses.

To permit a user to browse or search for privacy policies or pools the privacy marketplace system may include a marketplace screen. In an example a marketplace screen may allows a user to browse categories of available privacy policy based offers from businesses and available privacy pools that a user may join. The user may also be permitted to search privacy policies and privacy pools using a search box. The resulting privacy policies and privacy pools may be arranged in a search results list with a small blurb describing each privacy policy and privacy pool. The user may select a blurb to view further details about the privacy policy or privacy pool.

In alternate embodiments a marketplace screen may include privacy policy recommendations based on the privacy pools joined and privacy policies subscribed by friends of the user. The privacy marketplace system may also provide embeddable privacy policy information to allow organic discovery of privacy policies and privacy pools in web based social media such as blogs news sites etc.

To permit easy sharing of personal information according to a privacy policy the privacy marketplace system may provide tools to create access tokens. For example the privacy marketplace system may generate an access token that a user may access on a mobile device to provide to businesses to permit the businesses access to the user s personal data according to a privacy policy. The privacy management system may allow users to share or sell access to their personal information through the access tokens. An access tokens may be associated with a data policy that limits what personal information may be collected and may allow selective access to specified personal information. An access token may be a QR code a web address a unique key a password etc. Data services and third parties may use the access token to access the personal information of the personal information management system and use the data in accordance with the data policy.

In an embodiment a method of permitting a business to allow users to subscribe to privacy policies in privacy marketplace system may include the steps of receiving a request to register the business with the privacy marketplace system optionally including business servers information to permit the privacy marketplace system to communicate with the privacy marketplace system providing the business with communication information to permit the business to communicate with the privacy marketplace system receiving a user request to subscribe to a desired privacy policy for that business optionally notifying the business of the user request to subscribe to a privacy policy for that business receiving an indication of acceptance or rejection from the business to the user request providing user information to the business in accordance with the privacy policy.

In the first step the privacy marketplace system receives a request from a business to register with the privacy marketplace system. The request may be a request to register an account with the privacy marketplace system. Alternatively or additionally the request may be a request to receive personal information of a user. The request may reference one or more access tokens users privacy policies privacy pools etc.

At the optional next step the privacy marketplace system receives business servers information to permit the privacy marketplace system to communicate with the business servers. The business servers information may be included with the request of step. The business servers information may include web server addresses such as IP addresses that the privacy marketplace system may use to communicate with business servers. This permits the privacy marketplace system to poll the business servers for personal information updates of a user as may be specified in the privacy policy or to push personal information updates to the business servers.

Once registered with the privacy marketplace system the privacy marketplace system may provide the business with communication information to permit the business to communicate with the privacy marketplace system. The communication information may include Application Programming Interface API keys that permit the business servers to poll the privacy marketplace system for updates to user information in accordance with various privacy policies. The communication information may further include software scripts extensions business logic etc. that may be used by the business to configure its business servers to interoperate with the privacy marketplace system.

In the third step the business receives a user request to subscribe to a privacy policy for the business. The request may be made by the user providing the business with an access token or may be made by the user through the privacy marketplace system. After receiving an access token from a user the business may use the access token to enroll the user in the privacy policy.

If the user makes a request to subscribe to a privacy policy through the privacy marketplace system the privacy marketplace system may optionally notify the business of the user request to subscribe to a privacy policy for that business. The optional notification may be used where the user has sought to subscribe to a privacy policy with a business where the privacy policy does not meet pre approved criteria for acceptance. The notification may take the form of an electronic message such as an email to an administrator of a businesses account. Alternatively the notification may be made to a business data system via an API callback to permit the request to be processed using the businesses own application logic.

In order to finalize a subscription to a privacy policy a business may provide and the privacy marketplace system may receive an indication of acceptance or rejection of the user request to subscribe to a privacy policy. The indication of acceptance or rejection may be prospective for example a business may indicate in advance that certain privacy policies or privacy policies meeting approved characteristics may be automatically accepted or rejected. Alternatively the indication of acceptance or rejection may be made in response to a notification of a user request to subscribe to a policy.

After the business has accepted the user request to subscribe to a privacy policy the privacy marketplace system may begin providing user information to the business in accordance with the privacy policy.

By providing a privacy marketplace system that allows users to track and manage their own browsing buying spending and other commercial social and medical activities the user will then control the most holistic version of their personal information and habits which they can then choose to share sell block etc. as they desire. Further such a marketplace may permit businesses to access information about a user in a manner that respects user privacy while permitting businesses to create more accurate marketing campaigns that more directly speak to the facts about a particular individual or group of individuals etc. These analytics can be combined with other holistic datasets from other individuals and used to create more effective social networks more accurate marketing campaigns that more directly speak to the facts about a particular individual or group of individuals etc.

Further users may furnish third parties with dedicated personal QR Codes or Near Field Communication sensors or similar digital communication relay methods to enable third parties to track consumer spending and browsing activities and store them in the relevant bin in the personal information management system.

In an embodiment a system for managing personal information of a user includes a personal information database including personal information records of the user wherein personal information records include any data associated with the user wherein a user is associated with a data policy and wherein a data policy includes at least one permission for an accessing party to interact with a personal information record wherein the permission may be one of a read permission and write permission and a data access module that receives and responds to requests from an accessing party wherein a request may be one of a read request specifying a personal information record to be read wherein in response to a read request the data access module responds with the a personal information record to be read if permitted by the read permission of the personal information record of the privacy policy and a write request specifying a personal information to be written to a personal information record to be written wherein in response to a write request the data access module updates the personal information record to be written in the personal information database with the personal information to be written if permitted by the write permission of the personal information record the privacy policy.

In some embodiments the permission may further be a share permission and wherein a request may further be a share request to share a personal information record with a third party the share request specifying a personal information record to be shared wherein in response to a share request the data access module responds with a message indicating that the personal information record to be shared may be shared if permitted by the share permission of the personal information record the privacy policy.

In some embodiments the system for managing personal information of a user further includes an access token generator that in response to a user request generates an access token and provides the access token to the user wherein when the data access module receives an access token from an accessing party the data access module updates at least one permission of the data policy for the accessing party. Additionally in some embodiments the access token is provided as a QR code. Further in some embodiments the data access module receives an access token from an accessing party the data access module further provides the accessing party the data policy associated with the access token.

In some embodiments the system for managing personal information of a user further includes a data viewer that enables a user to view and edit personal information records associated with the user and a data policy editor including a user interface for viewing and subscribing to one or more available data policies wherein subscribing to a chosen policy of the one or more available data policies associates personal information records of the user with the chosen policy. In some embodiments the data policy viewer includes a social network.

In some embodiments a request may further be a registration request including business servers information wherein in response to the registration request the data access module in response to an update to the personal information of a personal information record including a read permission of the privacy policy permitting read access to an accessing party pushes the update to the personal information to a business server specified by the business servers information.

An object of the invention is to provide a solution to the distributed uncontrolled nature of personal information.

Another object of the invention is to provide a solution to permit consolidation of personal information management on a single platform under the control of the consumer.

An advantage of the invention is that it provides a mechanism for consumers to be compensated directly for their own personal information rather than having their information controlled by third parties at the consumer s expense.

Another advantage of the invention is that it provides a mechanism for users to pool their resources and influence to negotiate with businesses.

Additional objects advantages and novel features of the examples will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following description and the accompanying drawings or may be learned by production or operation of the examples. The objects and advantages of the concepts may be realized and attained by means of the methodologies instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

The privacy marketplace system may be embodied in a server including a controller and instructions to carry out the functionality of the privacy marketplace system as described herein. The privacy marketplace system may further include a mobile application including instructions that when executed by a device communicate with the server carry out the functionality described herein. The privacy marketplace system may provide a user interface that the user may access to use the functionality provided by the privacy marketplace system .

To permit the user to understand the information a category of information refers to previews of the information of the user may be presented. An edit history box may show the editing history of the privacy policy . Due to the large amount of personal information present the privacy marketplace system may provide analytics big data systems to automatically data mine and report on the user s personal data using techniques such as Bayesian filters. These tools may assist users in understanding and strategically manipulating their personal information to maximize privacy or revenue.

When a user subscribes to a privacy policy she may be encouraged to share her privacy policy subscription with her friends . Details of the privacy policy subscription may be populated in a user news feed of the privacy marketplace system . The user may also be provided the option of sharing her privacy policy subscriptions to other social networks blogs or social media platforms.

A privacy policy may include the privacy policy contract between the users one or more businesses and the privacy marketplace system specifying the obligations that may bind the parties regarding personal information. A privacy policy may include one or more privacy policy data files used by the privacy marketplace system that include information describing the privacy policy . The privacy policy data files may include free form text contractual provisions structured data formats electronic signatures membership lists identifying information and other information that one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize as describing the rights obligations and agreement between the parties. The privacy policy may include various permissions for each of the personal information records such as collect permissions whether a business may collect a personal information record share permissions whether a business may share the personal information record with third parties and in some embodiments may limit the allowable third parties access permissions whether a business may access the personal information record from the privacy marketplace system and write permissions whether a business may update the personal information record with the privacy marketplace system .

A privacy pool may be built around a current or proposed privacy policy . Users may join a privacy pool to encourage businesses to adopt a privacy policy . In some embodiments businesses may join together to form privacy pools to promote particular privacy policies .

In some embodiments a privacy pool may have multiple privacy policies as candidate privacy policies alternate privacy policies for members etc. For example a privacy pool might be created to promote an existing privacy policy promulgated by a business . Alternatively a privacy pool may be created by users to promote multiple privacy policies having similar characteristics and may permit a user to simultaneously subscribe to each of the privacy policies by joining the privacy pool .

In alternate embodiments a marketplace screen may include privacy policy recommendations based on the privacy pools joined and privacy policies subscribed to by friends of the user .

An access token may be a QR code a web address a unique key a password fingerprint IRD technology etc. Businesses and or third parties may use the access token to access the personal information of the privacy marketplace system and use the data in accordance with the data policy. In an embodiment an access token may direct a business to the users profile screen . An access token may include information specifying a privacy policy user identification privacy pool identification API keys privacy policy details user fingerprint access code permissions or any other information useful to permit the access token to enable users to communicate access credentials to privacy information to a business as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Along with the access token or as a part of the access token a business may be provided with a password or other visitor access pass. The password or visitor access pass may be used to view the storefront of the user such as the profile screen and or be used to automatically subscribe to a privacy policy of a user .

Turning to in an embodiment a method of permitting a business to allow users to subscribe to privacy policies in privacy marketplace system may include the steps of step of receiving a request to register the business with the privacy marketplace system step of optionally including business servers information to permit the privacy marketplace system to communicate with the business servers step of providing the business with communication information to permit the business to communicate with the privacy marketplace system step of receiving a user request to subscribe to a desired privacy policy for that business step of optionally notifying the business of the user request to subscribe to a privacy policy for that business step of receiving an indication of acceptance or rejection from the business to the user request step of providing user information to the business in accordance to the privacy policy .

In the first step at step the privacy marketplace system receives a request from a business to register with the privacy marketplace system . The request may be a request to register an account with the privacy marketplace system . Alternatively or additionally the request may be a request to receive personal information of a user . The request may reference one or more access tokens users privacy policies privacy pools etc.

At optional step the privacy marketplace system receives business servers information to permit the privacy marketplace system to communicate with the business servers . The business servers information may be included with the request of step . The business servers information may include web server addresses such as IP addresses that the privacy marketplace system may use to communicate with business servers . This permits the privacy marketplace system to poll the business servers for personal information updates of a user as may be specified in the privacy policy or to push personal information updates to the business servers .

Once registered with the privacy marketplace system at step the privacy marketplace system may provide the business with communication information to permit the business to communicate with the privacy marketplace system . The communication information may include Application Programming Interface API keys that permit the business servers to poll the privacy marketplace system for updates to user information in accordance with various privacy policies . The communication information may further include software scripts extensions business logic etc. that may be used by the business to configure its business servers to interoperate with the privacy marketplace system .

In the third step step the business receives a user request to subscribe to a privacy policy of the business . The request may be made by the user providing the business with an access token or may be made by the user through the privacy marketplace system . After receiving an access token from a user the business may use the access token to enroll the user in the privacy policy .

If the user makes a request to subscribe to a privacy policy through the privacy marketplace system the privacy marketplace system may optionally notify the business of the user request to subscribe to a privacy policy for that business at step . The optional notification may be used where the user has sought to subscribe to a privacy policy with a business where the privacy policy does not meet pre approved criteria for acceptance. The notification may take the form of an electronic message such as an email to an administrator of the business s account. Alternatively the notification may be made to a business servers via an API callback to permit the request to be processed using the business s own application logic.

In order to finalize a subscription to a privacy policy at step a business may provide and the privacy marketplace system may receive an indication of acceptance or rejection of the user request to subscribe to a privacy policy . The indication of acceptance or rejection may be prospective for example a business may indicate in advance that certain privacy policies or privacy policies meeting approved characteristics may be automatically accepted or rejected. Alternatively the indication of acceptance or rejection may be made in response to a notification of a user request to subscribe to a privacy policy .

After the business has accepted the user request to subscribe to a privacy policy at step the privacy marketplace system may begin providing user information to the business in accordance with the privacy policy. For example in response to a request by the business to read a personal information record the privacy marketplace system may provide the personal information in the read request to the business if permitted by the privacy policy . Likewise in response to a request by the business to write personal information to a personal information record the privacy marketplace system may updates the personal information record with the personal information if permitted by the write permission associated with the personal information record in the privacy policy. Further if the business has provided the business servers information the privacy marketplace system may push updates to personal information records to the business servers using the business servers information.

Aspects of the systems and methods described herein are controlled by one or more controllers. The one or more controllers may be adapted run a variety of application programs access and store data including accessing and storing data in associated databases and enable one or more interactions via the device . Typically the one or more controllers are implemented by one or more programmable data processing devices. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such devices are conventional in nature and it is presumed that those skilled in the art are adequately familiar therewith.

For example the one or more controllers may be a PC based implementation of a central control processing system utilizing a central processing unit CPU memories and an interconnect bus. The CPU may contain a single microprocessor or it may contain a plurality of microprocessors for configuring the CPU as a multi processor system. The memories include a main memory such as a dynamic random access memory DRAM and cache as well as a read only memory such as a PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM or the like. The system may also include any form of volatile or non volatile memory. In operation the main memory stores at least portions of instructions for execution by the CPU and data for processing in accord with the executed instructions.

The one or more controllers may also include one or more input output interfaces for communications with one or more processing systems. Although not shown one or more such interfaces may enable communications via a network e.g. to enable sending and receiving instructions electronically. The communication links may be wired or wireless.

The one or more controllers may further include appropriate input output ports for interconnection with one or more output displays e.g. monitors printers touchscreen motion sensing input device etc. and one or more input mechanisms e.g. keyboard mouse voice touch bioelectric devices magnetic reader RFID reader barcode reader touchscreen motion sensing input device etc. serving as one or more user interfaces for the controller. For example the one or more controllers may include a graphics subsystem to drive the output display. The links of the peripherals to the system may be wired connections or use wireless communications.

Although summarized above as a PC type implementation those skilled in the art will recognize that the one or more controllers also encompasses systems such as host computers servers workstations network terminals and the like. Further one or more controllers may be embodied in a server or a device such as a mobile electronic device like a smartphone or tablet computer. In fact the use of the term controller is intended to represent a broad category of components that are well known in the art.

Hence aspects of the systems and methods provided herein encompass hardware and software for controlling the relevant functions. Software may take the form of code or executable instructions for causing a controller or other programmable equipment to perform the relevant steps where the code or instructions are carried by or otherwise embodied in a medium readable by the controller or other machine. Instructions or code for implementing such operations may be in the form of computer instruction in any form e.g. source code object code interpreted code etc. stored in or carried by any tangible readable medium.

As used herein terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

It should be noted that various changes and modifications to the presently preferred embodiments described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and without diminishing its attendant advantages.

