---

title: Wireless communication method and apparatus supporting multiple communication services
abstract: A wireless communication method and an electronic device are provided. The electronic device includes a transmission module for transmitting a signal to a Circuit Switching (CS) network or a signal to a Packet Switching (PS) network; a first reception module and a second reception module for receiving a signal from the CS network or the PS network; and a communication control module for controlling the transmission module, the first reception module, and the second reception module, wherein, when a signal of the PS network is received through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module, the communication control module at least temporarily receives a signal received from the CS network in preference to the signal received from the PS network through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09622291&OS=09622291&RS=09622291
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09622291
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140609
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Patent Applications filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Jun. 11 2013 Sep. 13 2013 Oct. 23 2013 and Apr. 11 2014 and assigned Serial Nos. 10 2013 0066847 10 2013 0110730 10 2013 0126829 and 10 2014 0043331 respectively the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to a communication method and apparatus and more particularly to a wireless communication method and apparatus.

A wireless communication system has been developed from an initial wireless communication system providing a service based on a voice to a wireless communication system providing a high speed and high quality packet data service as set forth in communication standards such as a High Speed Packet Access HSPA of 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE High Rate Packet Data HRPD of 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB and Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16e.

According to the development of the wireless communication system electronic devices for example user devices such as a mobile phone a tablet computer a personal computer and the like supporting wireless communication may include a plurality of communication systems to communicate with multiple communication networks. For example a Circuit Switching CS network for example a voice service through a CDMA1x network providing a voice call service and a Packet Switching PS network for example a data service through LTE providing a data transmission reception service may coexist.

Further according to the development of the wireless communication system a communication technology using a plurality of antennas instead of one antenna has been developed and a technology for more efficiently reconstructing a physical signal to data is also being developed. For example as one type of reception method using a plurality of antennas there is a diversity reception method. The diversity reception method acquires a plurality of reception signals by receiving the same signal through different paths and acquires a gain by combining the plurality of reception signals. The paths may be distinguished according to various ways through space time frequency and the like. For example when a plurality of antennas are used a plurality of paths are spatially formed. When the plurality of antennas are used a plurality of hardware modules for processing signals received through the respective antennas are required. That is the signals received through the respective antennas are processed through different hardware modules so that independence of the paths is secured and gains generated when the signals are combined can increase.

Further the wireless communication system performs Carrier Aggregation CA by using a plurality of antennas and thus improves reception capability. CA refers to a method of performing communication with a wide bandwidth through the simultaneous use of carriers of different frequencies. When a plurality of carriers are used through CA each of the carriers is referred to as a Carrier Component CC . Since resources of each of the carriers are independently scheduled an electronic device may simultaneously receive different pieces of data through respective carriers. To this end an electronic device supporting CA may include transmission reception modules corresponding to the respective carriers.

According to the prior art when an electronic device provides a plurality of for example two communication services components suitable for the respective communication systems for example a Radio Frequency Integrated Chip RFIC and an antenna are required to be mounted to the electronic device. Accordingly a size of the electronic device increases or a manufacturing cost of the electronic device increases. Further according to the prior art as a number of components increases even though a space within the electronic device is limited a space to mount the components is not sufficient. Accordingly in order to secure the space for the components a size of a component such as the antenna is reduced. As a result this causes deterioration of the capability of the electronic device. Further since a plurality of antennas are mounted within a narrow space the capability of the electronic device also deteriorates due to interference between the antennas.

The present disclosure has been made to address the above problems and disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a wireless communication method and apparatus that can secure the capability of the electronic device with a small cost by supporting a plurality of communication network systems only by a small number of components.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a wireless communication method and apparatus that can control a size of the antenna by securing a space where the antenna is mounted thereby improving the capability of the electronic device and contributing to miniaturization of the electronic device.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a transmission module for transmitting a signal to a Circuit Switching CS network or a signal to a Packet Switching PS network a first reception module and a second reception module for receiving a signal from the CS network or the PS network and a communication control module for controlling the transmission module the first reception module and the second reception module wherein when a signal of the PS network is received through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module the communication control module at least temporarily receives a signal received from the CS network in preference to the signal received from the PS network through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a first communication module and a second communication module for transmitting and receiving a first signal of a first communication network or a second signal of a second communication network and a communication control module for controlling the first communication module and the second communication module wherein when a signal is transmitted to the first communication network through at least one of the first communication module and the second communication module the communication control module at least temporarily receives a signal of the second communication network through at least one of the first communication module and the second communication module.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a transmission module for transmitting a signal to a CS network or a PS network and a first reception module and a second reception module for receiving a signal from the CS network or the PS network wherein when the transmission module transmits a first CS network signal to the CS network the first reception module and the second reception module at least temporarily receive a second CS network signal from the CS network and the second reception module at least temporarily receives a first PS network signal from the PS network.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a transmission module for transmitting a signal to a CS network or a signal to a PS network a first reception module and a second reception module for receiving a signal from the CS network or the PS network and a communication control module for controlling the transmission module the first reception module and the second reception module wherein when a signal of the CS network is received through one of the first reception module and the second reception module the communication control module receives a broadcast signal or a multicast signal of the PS network through the other one of the first reception module and the second reception module.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a plurality of reception modules for receiving a signal of a CS network or a PS network wherein when the plurality of reception modules receive a broadcast signal of the PS network and then a part of the plurality of reception modules receives a signal of the CS network another part of the plurality of reception modules maintains the reception of the broadcast signal of the PS network.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method of an electronic device is provided. The method includes transmitting a signal to a CS network or a PS network and receiving a signal from the CS network or the PS network through a first reception module or a second reception module wherein receiving the signal includes at least temporarily receiving the signal of the CS network through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module when the signal of the PS network is received through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module.

Hereinafter the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Although specific embodiments are illustrated in the drawings and related detailed descriptions are discussed in the present specification the present disclosure may have various modifications and several embodiments. However various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to a specific implementation form and it should be understood that the present disclosure includes all changes and or equivalents and substitutes included in the spirit and scope of various embodiments of the present disclosure. In connection with descriptions of the drawings similar components are designated by the same reference numeral.

The term include or may include which may be used in describing various embodiments of the present disclosure refers to the existence of a corresponding disclosed function operation or component which can be used in various embodiments of the present disclosure and does not limit one or more additional functions operations or components. In various embodiments of the present disclosure the terms such as include or have may be construed to denote a certain characteristic number step operation constituent element component or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of addition of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations constituent elements components or combinations thereof.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure the expression or or at least one of A or and B includes any or all of combinations of words listed together. For example the expression A or B or at least A or and B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

The expression 1 2 first or second used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may modify various components of the various embodiments but does not limit the corresponding components. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the components. The expressions may be used for distinguishing one component from other components. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both of them are user devices. For example without departing from the scope of the present disclosure a first structural element may be referred to as a second structural element. Similarly the second structural element also may be referred to as the first structural element.

When it is stated that a component is coupled to or connected to another component the component may be directly coupled or connected to another component or a new component may exist between the component and another component. In contrast when it is stated that a component is directly coupled to or directly connected to another component a new component does not exist between the component and another component.

The terms used in describing various embodiments of the present disclosure are only examples for describing a specific embodiment but do not limit the various embodiments of the present disclosure. Singular forms are intended to include plural forms unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined differently all terms used herein which include technical terminologies or scientific terminologies have the same meaning as that understood by a person skilled in the art to which the present disclosure belongs. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present description.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a device including a communication function. For example the electronic device may be one or a combination of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a camera a wearable device for example a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes and electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessary an electronic tattoo and a smart watch.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may be a smart home appliance having a communication function. The smart home appliance may include at least one of a TeleVision TV a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio player an air conditioner a cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box for example Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV game consoles an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic frame.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may include at least one of various types of medical devices for example Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT a scanner an ultrasonic device and the like a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a vehicle infotainment device electronic equipment for a ship for example a navigation device for ship a gyro compass and the like avionics a security device a head unit for a vehicle an industrial or home robot an Automatic Teller Machine ATM of financial institutions and a Point Of Sale POS device of shops.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may include at least one of furniture or a part of a building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various types of measuring devices for example a water meter an electricity meter a gas meter a radio wave meter and the like including a camera function. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be one or a combination of the above described various devices. Further the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. It is apparent to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the above described devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used in various embodiments may refer to a person who uses an electronic device or a device for example an artificial intelligence electronic device which uses an electronic device.

The bus may be a circuit connecting the above described components and transmitting communication for example a control message between the above described components.

The processor receives commands from other components for example the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface or the communication control module through the bus analyzes the received commands and executes calculation or data processing according to the analyzed commands.

The memory stores commands or data received from the processor or other components for example the input output interface the display the communication interface or the communication control module or generated by the processor or other components. The memory may include programming modules for example a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API and an application . Each of the aforementioned programming modules may be implemented by software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more thereof.

The kernel controls or manages system resources for example the bus the processor or the memory used for executing an operation or function implemented by the remaining other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Further the kernel provides an interface for accessing individual components of the electronic device from the middleware the API or the application to control or manage the components.

The middleware performs a relay function of allowing the API or the application to communicate with the kernel to exchange data. Further in operation requests received from the application the middleware performs a control for the operation requests for example scheduling or load balancing by using a method of assigning a priority by which system resources for example the bus the processor the memory and the like of the electronic device can be used to the application .

The API is an interface by which the application can control a function provided by the kernel or the middleware and includes for example at least one interface or function for example command for a file control a window control image processing or a character control.

According to various embodiments the application may include a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an email application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application for example application measuring quantity of exercise or blood sugar or an environment information application for example application providing information on barometric pressure humidity or temperature . Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application related to an information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device for example electronic device . The application related to the information exchange may include for example a notification relay application for transferring particular information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transmitting notification information generated by another application for example an SMS MMS application an email application a health care application or an environment information application of the electronic device to the external electronic device for example electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from for example the external electronic device and provide the received notification information to the user. The device management application may manage for example install remove or update at least a part of functions for example turning on off the external electronic device or some components of the external electronic device or controlling a brightness of the display of the external electronic device communicating with the electronic device an application executed in the external electronic device or a service for example call service or message service provided by the external electronic device .

According to various embodiments the application may include an application designated according to an attribute for example type of electronic device of the external electronic device . For example when the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application related to music reproduction. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application related to health care. According to an embodiment the application may include at least one of an application designated to the electronic device and an application received from an external electronic device for example server or electronic device .

The input output interface transmits a command or data input from the user through an input output device for example a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface or the display control module through for example the bus . For example the input output interface may provide data on a user s touch input through a touch screen to the processor . Further the input output interface may output a command or data received through for example the bus from the processor the memory the communication interface or the communication control module through the input output device for example a speaker or a display . For example the input output interface may output voice data processed through the processor to the user through the speaker.

The display displays various pieces of information for example multimedia data text data or the like for the user.

The communication interface connects communication between the electronic device and the external device for example electronic device or server . For example the communication interface may access a network through wireless or wired communication to communicate with the external device. The wireless communication includes at least one of for example WiFi BlueTooth BT Near Field Communication NFC a Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . The wired communication may include at least one of for example a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment the network may be a telecommunication network. The telecommunication network includes at least one of a computer network Internet Internet of things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment a protocol for example transport layer protocol data link layer protocol or physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and the external device may be supported by at least one of the application the application programming interface the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

According to an embodiment the server supports driving of the electronic device by performing at least one operation or function implemented by the electronic device . For example the server may include a communication control server module that supports the communication control module implemented in the electronic device . For example the communication control server module may include at least one of the components of the communication control module to perform on behalf of at least one operations performed by the communication control module .

The AP operates an operating system OS or an application program so as to control a plurality of hardware or software component elements connected to the AP and execute various data processing and calculations including multimedia data. The AP may be implemented by for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment the processor may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

The communication module for example communication interface transmits receives data in communication between different electronic devices for example the electronic device and the server connected to the electronic device for example electronic device through a network. According to an embodiment the communication module includes a cellular module a WiFi module a BlueTooth BT module a Global Positioning System GPS module a Near Field Communication NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module provides a voice a call a video call a Short Message Service SMS or an Internet service through a communication network for example Long Term Evolution LTE LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM or the like . Further the cellular module may distinguish and authenticate electronic devices within a communication network by using a subscriber identification module for example the SIM card . According to an embodiment the cellular module performs at least some of the functions which can be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least some of the multimedia control functions.

According to an embodiment the cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . Further the cellular module may be implemented by for example an SoC.

Although the components such as the cellular module for example communication processor the memory and the power managing module are illustrated as components separate from the AP in the AP may include at least some for example cellular module of the aforementioned components in an embodiment.

According to an embodiment the AP or the cellular module for example communication processor may load a command or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other components connected to each of the AP and the cellular module to a volatile memory and process the loaded command or data. Further the AP or the cellular module may store data received from at least one of other components or generated by at least one of other components in a non volatile memory.

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted received through the corresponding module. Although the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated as blocks separate from each other in at least some for example two or more of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one Integrated Chip IC or one IC package according to one embodiment. For example at least some for example the communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and the WiFi processor corresponding to the WiFi module of the processors corresponding to the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be implemented by one SoC.

The RF module transmits receives data for example an RF signal. Although not illustrated the RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or the like. Further the RF module may further include a component for transmitting receiving electronic waves over a free air space in wireless communication for example a conductor a conducting wire or the like. Although the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module in at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit receive an RF signal through a separate RF module according to one embodiment.

The SIM card is a card including a Subscriber Identification Module and may be inserted into a slot formed in a particular portion of the electronic device. The SIM card includes unique identification information for example Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information for example International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory for example memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include for example at least one of a volatile memory for example a Random Access Memory RAM a dynamic RAM DRAM a static RAM SRAM a synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM and the like and a non volatile Memory for example a Read Only Memory ROM a one time programmable ROM OTPROM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable and programmable ROM EPROM an electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory an NOR flash memory and the like .

According to an embodiment the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD or a memory stick. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment the electronic device may further include a storage device or storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module measures a physical quantity or detects an operation state of the electronic device and converts the measured or detected information to an electronic signal. The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure barometric sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H for example Red Green and Blue RGB sensor H a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination light sensor K and a Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example a E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor an InfraRed IR sensor an iris sensor a fingerprint sensor not illustrated and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included in the sensor module .

The input device includes a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key and an ultrasonic input device . For example the touch panel may recognize a touch input in at least one type of a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an acoustic wave type. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. In the capacitive type the touch panel can recognize proximity as well as a direct touch. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this event the touch panel provides a tactile reaction to the user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example using a method identical or similar to a method of receiving a touch input of the user or using a separate recognition sheet. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a key pad. The ultrasonic input device is a device which can detect an acoustic wave by a microphone for example microphone of the electronic device through an input means generating an ultrasonic signal to identify data and can perform wireless recognition. According to an embodiment the electronic device receives a user input from an external device for example computer or server connected to the electronic device by using the communication module .

The display for example display includes a panel a hologram device and a projector . The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED . The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be configured by the touch panel and one module. The hologram device shows a stereoscopic image in the air by using interference of light. The projector projects light on a screen to display an image. For example the screen may be located inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device and the projector .

The interface includes for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface and a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included in for example the communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a Secure Digital SD card Multi Media Card MMC or an Infrared Data Association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module bi directionally converts a sound and an electronic signal. At least some components of the audio module may be included in for example the input output interface illustrated in . The audio module processes sound information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver an earphone the microphone or the like.

The camera module is a device which can photograph a still image and a video. According to an embodiment the camera module may include one or more image sensors for example a front sensor or a back sensor an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown or a flash for example an LED or xenon lamp .

The power managing module manages power of the electronic device . Although not illustrated the power managing module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted to for example an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. A charging method may be divided into wired and wireless methods. The charger IC charges a battery and prevent over voltage or over current from flowing from a charger. According to an embodiment the charger IC includes a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. The wireless charging method may include for example a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method and an electromagnetic wave method and additional circuits for wireless charging for example circuits such as a coil loop a resonant circuit a rectifier or the like may be added.

The battery fuel gauge measures for example a remaining quantity of the battery or a voltage a current or a temperature during charging. The battery may store or generate electricity and supply power to the electronic device by using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator shows particular statuses of the electronic device or a part for example AP of the electronic device for example a booting status a message status a charging status and the like. The motor converts an electrical signal to a mechanical vibration.

Although not illustrated the electronic device may include a processing unit for example GPU for supporting a module TV. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV may process for example media data according to a standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow or the like.

Each of the components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented by one or more components and the name of the corresponding component may vary depending on a type of the electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above described components a few of the components may be omitted or additional components may be further included. Also some of the components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be combined to form a single to entity and thus may equivalently execute functions of the corresponding components before being combined.

The kernel for example kernel includes a system resource manager and a device driver . The system resource manager may include for example a process manager a memory manager and a file system manager. The system resource manager performs a system resource control allocation and recall. The device driver may include for example a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a shared memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a WiFi driver and an audio driver. Further according to an embodiment the device driver may include an Inter Process Communication IPC driver.

The middleware includes a plurality of modules prepared in advance to provide a function required in common by the applications . Further the middleware provides a function through the API to allow the application to efficiently use limited system resources within the electronic device. For example as illustrated in the middleware for example middleware includes at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connection manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager and a security manager .

The runtime library includes for example a library module used by a complier to add a new function through a programming language while the application is executed. According to an embodiment the runtime library executes input and output management of a memory a function associated with an arithmetic function and the like.

The application manager manages for example a life cycle of at least one of the applications . The window manager manages GUI resources used on the screen. The multimedia manager detects a format required for reproducing various media files and performs an encoding or a decoding of a media file by using a codec suitable for the corresponding format. The resource manager manages resources such as a source code a memory or a storage space of at least one of the applications .

The power manager operates together with a Basic Input Output System BIOS to manage a battery or power and provides power information required for the operation. The database manager manages generation search and change of a database to be used by at least one of the applications . The package manager manages an installation or an update of an application distributed in a form of a package file.

The connection manager manages for example a wireless connection such as WiFi or Bluetooth. The notification manager displays or notifies a user of an event such as an arrival message an appointment a proximity alarm or the like in a manner that does not disturb the user. The location manager manages location information of the electronic device. The graphic manager manages a graphic effect provided to the user or a user interface related to the graphic effect. The security manager provides a general security function required for a system security or a user authentication. According to an embodiment when the electronic device for example electronic device or has a call function the middleware may further include a telephony manager for managing a voice of the electronic device or a video call function.

The middleware may generate a new middleware module through a combination of various functions of the aforementioned internal component modules and use the generated new middleware module. The middleware may provide a module specified for each type of operating system to provide a differentiated function. Further the middleware may dynamically delete some of the conventional components or add new components. Accordingly some of the components described in the embodiment of the present disclosure may be omitted replaced with other components having different names but performing similar functions or other components may be further included.

The API for example API is a set of API programming functions and may be provided with a different configuration according to an operating system. For example in Android or iOS a single API set may be provided for each platform. In Tizen two or more API sets may be provided.

The applications for example application may include for example a preloaded application or a third party application.

At least some of the programming module may be implemented by a command stored in a computer readable storage medium. When the command is executed by one or more processors for example processor the one or more processors perform a function corresponding to the command. The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least some of the programming module may be implemented for example executed by for example the processor . At least some of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine sets of instructions or a process for performing one or more functions.

Names of components of the programming module for example programming module according to the present disclosure may vary depending on a type of operating system. Further the programming module according to the present disclosure may include one or more of the aforementioned components omit some of the components or further include other additional components.

Additional information related to a wireless communication method and apparatus for supporting a plurality of communication services according to various embodiments are described below in connection with . is a block diagram of an electronic device for example electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. As illustrated in according to an embodiment the electronic device may include a transmission reception module a first reception module a communication control module a switch module an antenna and a duplexer .

The transmission reception module for example RF module includes a transmission module and a reception module . According to an embodiment the transmission reception module may transmit or receive signals of a plurality of communication networks including at least a first communication network and a second communication network. For example the transmission reception module transmits a signal to one of the first communication network and the second communication network through the transmission module and receives a signal from one of the first communication network and the second communication network through the reception module . The first reception module for example RF module receives a signal from one of the first communication network and the second communication network.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first communication network may be a Circuit Switching CS network applying a transmission technology such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA 1x Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Global System for Mobile communication GSM or the like. The second communication network may be a Packet Switching PS network using a transmission technology such as Long Term Evolution LTE mobile Wimax or the like. A broadcast signal or a multicast signal may be received by the electronic device through the PS network. The broadcast signal or the multicast signal of the PS network may be a signal to which an evolved Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service eMBMS technology provided by 3GPP is applied. The broadcast signal or the multicast signal of the PS network for example a signal received through a Multicast CHannel MCH of LTE and a data communication signal of the PS network for example a signal received through a DownLink Shared CHannel DL SCH of LIE may have the same frequency band and are transmitted to the terminal for example electronic device by a base station through a Time Division TD scheme. For example the data communication signal of the PS network may be a data communication signal for example unicast transmitted to a specified person and the broadcast signal of the PS network may be a broadcast signal transmitted to many unspecified people. The multicast signal of the PS network may be a multicast signal transmitted to many specified people.

Alternatively the first communication network may be the PS network and the second communication network may be the CS network. Although the first communication network and the second communication network have been described as the CS network or the PS network or converse thereof for the convenience of description the first communication network and the second communication network may be different communication networks using different transmission technologies according to various embodiments of the present disclosure.

The communication control module for example communication processor includes a first communication control module and a second communication control module . The communication control module controls one of the transmission reception module and the first reception module to process at least one of signals of the first communication network and the second communication network. For example the first communication control module processes a signal of the first communication network or a signal of the second communication network and the second communication module processes a signal of the second communication network or a signal of the first communication network .

Each of the first communication control module and the second communication control module may include for example three ports including a transmitter e Tx a first receiver Rx1 and a second receiver Rx2. According to an embodiment the Tx is a port by which the first communication control module or the second communication control module transmits a signal to the transmission module . The Rx1 is a port by which the first communication control module or the second communication control module receives a signal from the reception module . The Rx2 is a port by which the first communication control module or the second communication control module receives a signal from the first reception module . According to an embodiment the Rx1 may receive a signal from the first reception module and the Rx2 may receive a signal from the reception module . Additional information on processing of the signal of the first communication network or the signal of the second communication network by the communication control module will be described below with reference to .

The switch module may include one or more switches. For example the switch module may include three switches corresponding to the transmission module the reception module and the first reception module . The switch module controls for example switches to connect the transmission module the reception module or the first reception module with the first communication control module or the second communication control module based on the signal processed by the transmission module the reception module or the first reception module .

According to an embodiment when the first communication control module transmits a signal corresponding to the first communication network to the first communication network the switch module connects the Tx of the first communication control module with the transmission module . When the second communication control module transmits a signal corresponding to the second communication network to the second communication network the switch module connects the Tx of the second communication control module with the transmission module .

According to an embodiment when the reception module receives a signal corresponding to the first communication network the switch module connects the reception module with the Rx1 of the first communication control module . When the reception module receives a signal corresponding to the second communication network the switch module connects the reception module with the Rx1 of the second communication control module . According to an embodiment the switch module may connect the first reception module with the first communication control module or the second communication control module according to the signal received by the first reception module .

The antenna includes a first antenna and a second antenna . The first antenna may be a transmission reception antenna which simultaneously or sequentially transmits receives at least one of the signal of the first communication network and the signal of the second communication network. The second antenna may be a reception antenna which simultaneously or sequentially receives at least one of the signal of the first communication network and the signal of the second communication network.

The duplexer connects the first antenna and the transmission reception module . The duplexer prevents communication confusion by separating at least some of the signals transmitted by the transmission module and received by the reception module . According to an embodiment the duplexer may be a dielectric duplexer or a SAW duplexer.

The first communication control module and the second communication control module may share at least one of the transmission reception module the first reception module the switch module the duplexer the first antenna and the second antenna . This allows the electronic device to communicate with a plurality of communication networks for example the first communication network and the second communication network through the use of a small number of components or modules. It is possible to make better use of a space of the electronic device by reducing the number of components for a plurality of communication systems. For example a space secured by a small number of components may be used for mounting the first antenna . A size of the first antenna may be larger than a size of the antenna mounted to the user device having a plurality of transmission reception modules for supporting a plurality of communication systems to increase a capability of the first antenna . The capability of the first antenna may be identical or similar to a capability of the second antenna . For example the receiving sensitivity of the first antenna and the second antenna may be identical to each other or have a difference within about 3 dB. In another embodiment the receiving sensitivity of the first antenna and the second antenna may be identical to each other or have a difference within about 2 dB. In still another embodiment the receiving sensitivity of the first antenna and the second antenna may be identical to each other or have a difference within about 1 dB.

Although illustrates an example in which the first communication control module and the second communication control module are separate control modules for example modem for the convenience of description the first communication control module and the second communication control module may be configured as one communication control module supporting a plurality of for example two communication systems for example a CS network communication system such as a CDMA1x system and a PS network communication system such as an LTE system according to various embodiments.

Similarly although it has been described that the first communication control module and the second communication control module include separate ports for the convenience of description the first communication control module and the second communication control module may share at least some of the ports according to various embodiments. According to an embodiment when the first communication control module and the second communication control module share at least some of the ports the switch module may be included in the communication control module . Additional information on a method in which the communication control module processes the signal of the first communication network or the signal of the second communication network will be described below with reference to .

The first communication control module is connected to the reception module through the switch module to receive a signal of the first communication network transmitted through the first antenna . In this event for example the first communication control module receives the signal of the first communication network through the first receiver port for example Rx1 . Further the first communication control module may control the first reception module to receive the signal of the first communication network. The signal of the first communication network received by the first reception module through the second antenna may be received by the first communication control module . In this event for example the signal of the first communication network received by the first reception module is transmitted to the second receiver port for example Rx2 of the first communication control module .

According to an embodiment the first communication control module may receive the signal of the first communication network through the reception module and the first reception module . For example the first communication control module receives the signal of the first communication network by using both the first antenna and the second antenna . This allows the first communication control module to acquire a diversity gain of the signal of the first communication network. When the reception module and the first reception module receive the signal of the first communication network the second communication control module may be in for example an idle state or an Out Of Service OOS state.

When the electronic device does not communicate with the first communication network for example CS network such as when the user terminates a voice call the communication control module may transmit or receive the signal of the second communication network for example PS network and process the signal.

Although not illustrated according to an embodiment when the communication control module receives a paging signal of the second communication network for example PS network the communication control module may control the first reception module to receive the paging signal of the second communication network. For example the Rx1 or the Rx2 of the second communication control module may be connected to the first reception module through the switch module . In this event the second communication control module receives the paging signal of the second communication network received by the first reception module through the second antenna . According to an embodiment even when the electronic device communicates with the first communication network the first reception module may receive the signal for example a broadcast signal or a paging signal of the second communication network.

The second communication control module is connected to the reception module through the switch module to receive a signal of the second communication network for example the signal of the PS network transmitted through the first antenna . The signal of the PS network may include at least one of a data communication signal for example unicast transmitted to a specified person and a broadcast signal for example a signal received through a Broadcast CHannel BCH of LTE transmitted to many unspecified people. Further the signal of the PS network may include a multicast signal transmitted to many designated people. For example the second communication control module receives the signal of the second communication network through the first receiver port for example Rx1 . The second communication control module controls the first reception module to receive the signal of the second communication network. The signal of the second communication network received by the first reception module through the second antenna may be received by the second communication control module . In this event the signal of the second communication network received by the first reception module is transmitted to the second receiver port for example Rx2 of the second communication control module .

According to an embodiment the second communication control module receives the signal of the second communication network through the reception module and the first reception module . For example the second communication control module receives the signal of the second communication network by using both the first antenna and the second antenna . This allows the second communication control module to perform for example Multiple Input Multiple Output MIMO required for the signal of the second communication network for example the PS network . When the reception module and the first reception module receive the signal of the second communication network the first communication control module may be in for example an idle state. Additional information on a method in which the communication control module controls the first reception module to receive a paging signal of the first communication network will be described below with reference to .

When the communication control module desires to receive a paging signal of the first communication network for example the CS network the communication control module controls the first reception module to receive the paging signal of the first communication network. For example the first communication control module is connected to the first reception module through the switch module . Further the first communication control module receives the paging signal of the first communication network received by the first reception module through the second antenna . Further the first communication control module may receive the paging signal of the first communication network received by the first reception module through the first antenna .

According to an embodiment the electronic device monitors a state of a signal of at least one of the first communication network and the second communication network received through at least one of the first antenna and the second antenna periodically or aperiodically. For example the electronic device monitors a state of a signal for example a paging signal a pilot channel signal a broadcast control channel signal a command pilot channel signal or the like of the first communication network for example the CS network through at least one of the first antenna and the second antenna .

According to an embodiment the electronic device obtains a state of a signal for example an electric field based on a paging signal of the first communication network or the second communication network received through at least one of the first antenna and the second antenna . For example the electronic device may receive the paging signal of the first communication network about every 2.56 seconds. When the electronic device receives the paging signal of the first communication network the electronic device determines a state for example a signal intensity or a communication quality of the signal for the first communication network. For example the electronic device may identify the state of the signal of the first communication network when the paging signal is received as well as before or after the paging signal of the first communication network is received. According to an embodiment the electronic device may identify the state of the signal of the first communication network based on at least two of various signals of the first communication network.

According to an embodiment the electronic device selects an antenna for receiving a paging signal of the first communication network or the second communication network from the first antenna and the second antenna based on a state for example the signal intensity of the signal of the first communication network and the second communication network. For example according to the design of the antenna a signal reception capability of the first antenna may be higher than a signal reception capability of the second antenna by for example about 2 dB. In this case the electronic device may selectively change the antenna for receiving the paging signal of the first communication network or the second communication network from the first antenna to the second antenna or from the second antenna to the first antenna by considering both the state of the signal of the first communication network or the second communication network and the antenna reception capability.

For example when an intensity of the signal of the first communication network obtained through at least one of the first antenna and the second antenna for example the first antenna having a relatively larger signal reception capability is within a first designated range for example the intensity is strong enough to provide a service provided through the first communication network or a communication quality corresponds to fair among good fair and poor the electronic device may receive the paging signal of the first communication network through the second antenna having a relatively smaller signal reception capability. For example when the intensity of the signal of the first communication network is within the first designated range even though the electronic device receives the current paging signal of the first communication network through the first antenna having the larger signal reception capability the electronic device may change an antenna for receiving a next paging signal of the first communication network from the first antenna to the second antenna . Further in this case the electronic device may receive the signal of the second communication network for example a data signal of the second communication network through the first antenna having the relatively larger signal reception capability. Accordingly the electronic device may provide a data service by receiving the signal of the second communication network with a signal intensity stronger than the intensity of the signal of the first communication network.

According to an embodiment when an intensity of the signal of the first communication network obtained through at least one of the first antenna and the second antenna for example the first antenna having a relatively larger signal reception capability is within a second designated range for example the intensity is not strong enough to provide a service provided through the first communication network or a communication quality corresponds to poor among good fair and poor the electronic device may receive the paging signal of the first communication network through the first antenna . For example when the intensity of the signal of the first communication network is within the second designated range even though the electronic device receives the current paging signal of the first communication network through the second antenna having the smaller signal reception capability the electronic device may change an antenna for receiving a next paging signal of the first communication network from the second antenna to the first antenna .

According to an embodiment when the paging signal for example a paging signal received through a paging channel in CDMA of the first communication network for example the CS network and the paging signal for example a paging signal transmitted by a mobile mobility entity of LTE of the second communication network for example the PS network overlap each other the communication control module may give a priority to the paging signal of the first communication network. Accordingly even though the user uses a packet service through the second communication network the user may use a voice call performed through the first communication network. When the first reception module receives the paging signal of the first communication network additional information on a method in which the communication control module processes the signal of the second communication network will be described below with reference to . According to an embodiment when a service for example a VoIP service having a high priority is provided through the second communication network if the signal of the first communication network for example a signal for receiving an SMS MMS and the signal of the second communication network for example a paging signal for VoLTE reception overlap each other the communication control module may give a priority to the signal of the second communication network.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to . Parts of the electronic device of identical or similar to the electronic device described in will be omitted. is a block diagram of an electronic device for example electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. According to an embodiment the electronic device includes a first transmission reception module a second transmission reception module a communication control module a switch module an antenna and a duplexer . The first transmission reception module includes a first transmission module and a first reception module and the second transmission reception module includes a second transmission module and a second reception module . The communication control module includes a first communication control module and a second communication control module . The antenna includes a first antenna and a second antenna and the duplexer includes a first duplexer and a second duplexer .

According to an embodiment the first communication control module and the second communication control module may share the first reception module and the second reception module . The first transmission module may be identical or similar to the transmission module and the first reception module may be identical or similar to the reception module . The second transmission reception module for example RF module transmits a signal to for example the first communication network or the second communication network and receives a signal of the first communication network or the second communication network.

The communication control module controls the first transmission reception module or the second transmission reception module to process at least one of the signal of the first communication network and the signal of the second communication network. According to an embodiment the first communication control module and the second communication control module may share for example the first reception module or the second reception module to simultaneously or sequentially process the signal of the first communication network or the signal of the second communication network. Additional information on processing of the signal of the first communication network or the signal of the second communication network by the communication control module will be described below with reference to Table 1.

According to an embodiment the switch module includes a plurality of switches. For example the switch module may include two switches corresponding to the first reception module and the second reception module . Further the switch module may control for example switch to connect the first reception module or the second reception module with the first communication control module or the second communication control module based on the first reception module or the second reception module .

Since the first antenna and the second antenna are identical or similar to the first antenna of the electronic device a description thereof will be omitted. The first duplexer connects the first antenna and the first transmission reception module . The second duplexer connects the second antenna and the second transmission reception module .

The first communication control module is connected to the first transmission module in for the convenience of description and the second communication control module may be connected to the second transmission module . According to an embodiment the first communication control module and the second communication control module may share the first transmission module and the second transmission module . For example when the signal is transmitted to the second communication network for example the PS network and a MIMO implementation is required for example when an uplink MIMO is required the second communication control module may be connected to the first transmission control module and the second transmission control module .

Alternatively according to an embodiment the first communication control module may be connected to the first transmission module and the second transmission module . According to an embodiment when the first communication control module and the second communication control module share at least one of the first transmission module or the second transmission module an internal circuit included in the switch module may be changed to another internal circuit. Further the first communication control module and the second communication control module may further include at least one transmitter for sharing the first transmission module or the second transmission module .

Hereinafter signal processing of the first communication control module or the second communication control module will be described with reference to Table 1. In Table 1 the electronic device is expressed as having first to fourth states according to whether the electronic device is connected to the first communication network or the second communication network. The first communication network may be for example the CS network and CDMA1x is shown as one example of the CS network in Table 1. The second communication network may be for example the PS network and LTE is shown as one example of the PS network in Table 1. Other examples of the CS network and the PS network have been described above.

An idle state may refer to for example a state where there is no radio connection between the electronic device and the communication network for example first communication network or the second communication network . In the idle state the electronic device may monitor a paging signal of the first communication network or the second communication network.

A connected state may refer to for example a state where the electronic device and the communication network have a radio connection therebetween and thus can exchange a signal. In the connected state the electronic device may exchange for example a control message with the communication network and transmit receive user data. For example in the connected state the electronic device may perform at least one of a data service a voice call base station registration for example LTE attach or CDMA1x registration or operation s informing the base station of the communication network according to a condition when the electronic device moves.

In the first state of Table 1 both the first communication control module for example the CDMA1x system and the second communication control module for example the LTE system may be in the idle state. In the first state the first communication control module and the second communication control module monitor a paging signal by using at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module .

According to an embodiment the first communication control module may be connected to one of the first reception module and the second reception module to receive a paging signal of the first communication network for example CDMA1x . According to an embodiment the second communication control module may be connected to the other of the first reception module and the second reception module to receive a paging signal of the second communication network for example LTE . Since different communication systems use different paging periods each of the communication systems for example first communication control module and second communication control module may receive the paging signal by using an independent reception path for example Rx path . Further each of the communication systems may control on off of each reception path.

According to an embodiment each of the first communication control module and the second communication control module may monitor the paging signal or receive a signal by using both the first reception module and the second reception module . For example since the first communication control module has a priority over the second communication control module the first communication control module may use the first reception module as a first reception path and the second reception module as a second reception path to receive the signal of the first communication network. The first communication control module may also have a priority over the reception path for example second reception path allocated to the second communication control module . In this event only when the first communication control module does not use the reception path allocated to the second communication control module the second communication control module may use the allocated reception path as the reception path is allocated to the second communication control module . According to another embodiment when the second communication control module has a priority over the first communication control module the second communication control module may use the first reception module as a first reception path and the second reception module as a second reception path to receive the signal of the second communication network. For example the second communication control module may also have a priority over the reception path for example first reception path allocated to the first communication control module .

According to an embodiment when the first communication control module the CDMA1x system desires to acquire a diversity gain by using a plurality of reception modules for example first reception module and second reception module the first communication control module may use both of the two reception modules to utilize two reception paths. For example when a signal intensity of the CDMA1x signal is weak for example when the signal is weaker than a predetermined dB value or when a BER value larger than a predetermined BER value is acquired the first communication control module may use both reception paths corresponding to the two reception modules. According to another embodiment when the second communication control module the LTE system desires to acquire a diversity gain by using a plurality of reception modules the second communication control module may use both of the two reception modules to utilize two reception paths.

Further when a reception intensity of the paging signal of the first communication network is low for example when the first communication control module cannot detect the paging signal of the first communication network the first communication control module may receive the paging signal by using both reception paths. For example when the intensity of the paging signal of CDMA1x is less than or equal to a threshold the first communication control module may use both reception modules. When the intensity of the paging signal of CDMA1x is sufficiently large for example when the intensity is greater than a threshold the first communication control module may use one of the two reception modules. For example when the intensity of the paging signal of CDMA1x is sufficiently large the first communication control module receives an LTE signal through the first reception path and receives the paging signal of CDMA1x through the second reception path. Alternatively when the intensity of the signal of CDMA1x received through the first reception path is sufficiently large and the intensity of the signal of CDMA1x received through the second reception path is not sufficiently large the first communication control module receives the paging signal of CDMA1x through the first reception path. Further when the user blocks the LTE communication for another reason the first communication control module may use both reception modules. The first communication control module may dynamically use the two reception modules according to various reasons for example CDMA1x signal intensity diversity demand paging signal LTE network block etc. .

When the first communication control module uses the two reception modules the signal of the second communication network for example data service through the LTE network may not be processed in real time. Since the data reception of the LTE network may have a lower priority in comparison with signal reception of CDMA1x and the necessity of real time processing is relatively low the user may not feel a big inconvenience. For example even though an email server transmits a paging signal informing the user of an arrival of an email to the electronic device the electronic device may not receive the paging signal. In this event confirmation of the arrival of the email is somewhat delayed but it may not be an issue to the user.

According to an embodiment when the second communication network supports a service having a high priority for example a voice service the second communication control module may have a priority and receive the signal of the second communication network by using at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module. When the second communication control module uses both reception modules the signal of the first communication network may be processed.

In the first state of Table 1 both the first communication control module for example the CDMA1x system and first communication network for example the CDMA1x network may be in the connected state and the second communication control module for example the LTE system may be in the idle state. In the second state the electronic device communicates with the first communication network for example the user may perform a voice call. The first communication control module may communicate with the first communication network by using one of the two reception paths for example a first reception path and one of the two transmission paths for example a first transmission path corresponding to the first transmission module or second transmission path corresponding to the second transmission module . The second communication control module may receive the paging signal of the second communication network by using the other of the two reception paths.

In the second state also based on various reasons the first communication control module may have a priority over the second communication control module . For example the first communication control module may use both reception modules based on the priority. In this event the second communication control module cannot receive the paging signal of the second communication network or may use one reception path only when the second communication control module receives the paging signal of the second communication network. In the second state the second communication control module may have a priority over the first communication control module . For example when a service having a high priority for example a voice service or VoIP is provided through the second communication control module the second communication control module may use at least one of the two reception paths based on the priority. In this event the first communication control module cannot receive the signal of the first communication network or may receive the signal of the first communication network by using the reception path which the second communication control module does not use.

In the third state of Table 1 the first communication control module for example the CDMA1x system may be in the idle state and the second communication control module for example the LTE system and the second communication network for example the LTE network may be in the connected state. In the third state the electronic device may be in a state where communication with the second communication network is possible for example a case where the user uses a data service. The second communication control module may communicate with the second communication network by using one or the two reception paths for example second reception path and one of the two transmission paths for example second transmission path .

The first communication control module may receive the paging signal of the first communication network the CDMA1x network by using the other of the two reception paths for example first reception path . When intensities of the signals for example the signal of the first communication network or the signal of the second communication network received through the two reception paths are sufficiently large the first communication control module receives the paging signal of the first communication network by using one of the two reception paths. For example when the intensities for example electric field or communication quality of the signals received through the two reception paths are sufficiently large the first communication control module receives the paging signal through a reception path such as the second reception path having a relatively lower signal intensity between the two reception paths. According to an embodiment the signal reception capability of the first antenna may be the same as the signal reception capability of the second antenna or may be higher by about 3 dB. When an intensity of the received signal the electric field is large enough to provide the service the electronic device receives the paging signal of the first communication network through a reception path the second reception path including the second antenna . Further in this case the electronic device provides the data service by receiving the signal of the second communication network through a reception path the first reception path including the first antenna . Accordingly the electronic device may receive the signal of the second communication network corresponding to the data service with a stronger intensity in the third state. That is when the intensity of the signal of the first communication network received through only one of the two reception paths is sufficiently large the first communication module may receive the paging signal through the one reception path.

According to an embodiment when the paging signal of the first communication network is received the first communication control module may use both the first reception path and the second reception path. For example a priority of the paging signal of the first communication network the CDMA1x network may be higher than the priorities of other signals. Accordingly when the paging signal of the first communication network is received the first communication control module may dynamically use the two reception paths based on the various reasons. In another embodiment a priority of the paging signal of the second communication network the LTE network may be higher than priorities of other signals. Accordingly during communication with the second communication network the paging signal of the first communication network may not be received or may be restrictively received. For example when the second communication network does not communicate or when an operation is made in a Rank1 mode of the second communication network the paging signal of the first communication network may be received.

According to an embodiment the second communication control module may implement transmission reception of the signal of the second communication network in a MIMO scheme. When the paging signal of the first communication network is received one of the two reception paths is used for receiving the paging signal of the first communication network. When the second communication control module receives the signal of the first communication network for example the paging signal of the first communication network the second communication control module may change a reception mode of the signal of the second communication network. For example the second communication control module may change a processing mode of the signal received from the second communication network. When the signal of the first communication network is received additional information on a method in which the second communication control module receives the signal of the second communication network will be described below in connection with or .

In the fourth state of Table 1 the first communication control module the CDMA1x system may be in a connection state with the first communication network the CDMA1x network and the second communication control module the LTE system may be in a connection state with the second communication network the LTE network . For example the user may receive a voice call while using a data service or use the data service while performing the voice call such that the user may use the data service such as web surfing while performing the voice call at the same time. In this event the electronic device may be switched to the fourth state from the second state or from the third state.

In the fourth state the first communication control module or the second communication control module may not use the two reception paths. This is because continuously allocating one reception path to the first communication control module in the CS system may be advantageous to the first communication control module in continuing a connection with the CS network. Also this is because the second communication control module corresponds to for example the PS system and thus receives a Physical Downlink Control CHannel PDCCH in every Transmission Time Interval TTI when the second communication control module does not operate in a connected DRX Discontinuous Reception mode. According to an embodiment when the second communication control module operates in the connected DRX mode the first communication control module may use the reception path allocated to the second communication control module during an interval where the second communication control module does not receive the signal of the second communication network. Accordingly the second communication control module may acquire a diversity gain.

Referring back to a difference between the electronic device of and the electronic device of is that the electronic device includes for example one transmission module. Accordingly the electronic device supports the first to third states. Since a voice call has a higher priority than a data service if the electronic device receives a voice call during the data service the electronic device may stop the data service and perform the voice call. According to an embodiment the user may configure priorities of the voice call through the CS network and the data service for example data communication or voice call through the PS network through a user interface. Further the electronic device for example electronic device may have a different service and operating system for each condition according to a service provider s requirement.

Additional information on a state of the second communication network for example LTE will be described with reference to Table 2.

In a first state of Table 2 the LTE system for example communication control module of the electronic device may be in the idle state where a data communication signal of the PS network is not transmitting and receiving. Further the electronic device may be in a state where a broadcast signal or a multicast signal of the PS network is not received. In the first state the communication control module monitors the paging signal of the first communication network for example CS network by using at least one of the reception module and the first reception module .

In a second state of Table 2 the communication control module may be in the connected state where a data communication signal for example a signal corresponding to a voice call or data of the PS network can be transmitted and received and the broadcast signal or the multicast signal of the PS network is not received. In the second state the communication control module monitors the paging signal of the CS network by using at least one of the reception module and the first reception module .

In a third state of Table 2 the communication control module may be in the idle state where the data communication signal of the PS network is not transmitted and received and the broadcast signal or the multicast signal of the PS network can be received. For example the third state may be a state where there is no transmission reception of the data communication signal of the PS network but the broadcast signal or the multicast signal for example eMBMS of the PS network can be received. In the third state the communication control module monitors the paging signal of the CS network by using at least one of the reception module and the first reception module . According to an embodiment the communication control module may receive the broadcast signal or the multicast signal of the PS network by controlling at least one of the transmission reception module and the first reception module in the third state. Further the communication control module may periodically monitor the paging signal of the CS network by controlling the first reception module .

In a fourth state of Table 2 the communication control module may be in the connected state where the data communication signal of the PS network can be received and the broadcast signal or the multicast signal of the PS network can be received. For example the fourth state may be a state where the data communication signal of the PS network can be transmitted and received and the broadcast signal or the multicast signal for example eMBMS of the PS network can be received. In the fourth state the communication control module monitors the paging signal of the CS network by using at least one of the reception module and the first reception module . According to an embodiment in the fourth state the communication control module receives at least one of the data communication signal the broadcast signal and the multicast signal of the PS network by controlling the reception module and transmits the data communication signal of the PS network by controlling the transmission module . Further the communication control module receives at least one of the data communication signal the broadcast signal and the multicast signal of the PS network. In addition the communication control module may periodically monitor the paging signal of the CS network by controlling the first reception module .

Hereinafter when the second communication control module for example second communication control module or uses one of the first reception path and the second reception path a signal processing method will be described with reference to . is a timing chart illustrating data throughput of the signal of the second communication network for example the PS network when the paging signal of the first communication network for example the CS network is received. In a solid line refers to a signal of the communication network which the second communication control module or currently receives and a dotted line refers to a signal which the second communication control module or does not currently receive but will be able to receive.

According to an embodiment the second communication control module or may receive the signal of the PS network through the first antenna or . Further the second communication control module or may receive the signal of the PS network through the second antenna or and receive a paging signal of the CS network according to for example one period of 1 T. For example the second antenna or may switch the signal currently received in a first time point to the paging signal of the CS network from the signal of the PS network and switch the signal currently received in a second time point to the signal of the PS network from the paging signal of the CS network. Although not illustrated according to an embodiment when the second antenna or receives the paging signal of the CS network the first communication control module or may transmit a first feedback to the second communication control module or prior to reception of the paging signal of the CS network. A timing of receiving the paging signal of the CS network may be determined according to a series of procedures defined by the standard of the first communication network and the first communication control module or may know a reception time point of the paging signal of the CS network. Accordingly the first communication control module or may transmit first feedback to the second communication control module or in advance.

The second communication control module or having received the first feedback from the first communication control module or may provide second feedback for example transmit related information to a rank indicator through a Physical Uplink Control CHannel PUCCH of the LTE standard or through a data channel to the PS. A time point when the second feedback is transmitted to the PS network may be for example a third time point ahead of the first time point when the second antenna or receives the paging signal of the CS network. The PS network having received the second feedback switches a data transmission mode from a Rank2 mode to a Rank1 mode for example diversity mode so that the second communication control module or may receive data which has not been lost while the first communication control module or receives the signal of the CS network for example from the first time point to the second time point .

Although not illustrated according to an embodiment the first communication control module or may transmit the first feedback to the second communication control module or before the second time point when the reception of the paging signal of the CS network ends. Further the second communication control module or having received the first feedback may transmit the second feedback to the PS network. For example the second communication control module or may provide the second feedback to the PS network in a fourth time point before the second time point . Accordingly the PS network may transmit data to for example an interval where reception of the paging signal of the CS network ends in the Rank2 mode. Then the second communication control module or may receive PS network data which has not been lost to have data throughput of the PS network having a Max value.

A timing chart in shows that the data throughput of the PS network provides an enlargement of the data throughput of the PS network in a marked part of the second antenna or . The data throughput of the PS network may become the Max when the second antenna or receives the signal of the PS network for example third time point . This is because the second communication control module or operates for example in the Rank2 mode to receive the signal of the PS network by using both the first antenna or and the second antenna or . The second communication control module or provides the feedback to the PS network in the third time point but the second antenna or can still receive the signal of the PS network. The PS network having already received the feedback in the third time point may transmit the signal of the PS network in the Rank1 mode in order to allow the first antenna or to correctly receive data in the first time point where the second antenna or receives the paging signal of the CS network. Accordingly the data throughput of the PS network does not become the Max in the first time point but becomes a value higher than a Low value because data has not been lost. Similarly the second communication control module or transmits the signal of the PS network in the Rank2 mode in a time point for example second time point when the reception of the paging signal of the CS network ends so that data throughput of the PS network may become the Max from the third time point .

Although illustrates that the second communication control module or is implemented by a Multi Input Multi Output MIMO scheme for the convenience of description the second communication control module or may have various embodiments. For example the second communication control module or may be implemented in a Spatial Multiplexing MIMO SM MIMO mode or a Space Frequency Block Code SFBC mode to process the signal of the second communication network. The SM MIMO mode may be divided into for example the Rank2 mode where different pieces of data are received through a plurality of antennas or the Rank1 mode where the same data is received through a plurality of antennas. According to various embodiments when the second communication control module or uses two antennas and operates in the Rank1 mode or the SFBC mode a setting of the second communication control module or may be controlled according to an implementation mode of the second communication control module or . For example when the second communication control module or operates in the SFBC mode or the SM MIMO Rank1 mode deterioration of the reception capability of the signal of the PS network can be improved by controlling the second communication control module or while the paging signal of the CS network is received. Further a region where the electronic device or can operate in the SM MIMO Rank2 mode is limited to proximity of a base station of the second communication network. Accordingly even when the paging signal of the CS network is received the reception capability of the signal of the PS network is not significantly affected.

According to an embodiment a base station of the CS network may transmit feedback of a time point when the paging signal of the CS network is received to a base station of the PS network. In this event the base station of the PS network may switch a transmission mode in accordance with the time point when the paging signal of the CS network is received. For example when the electronic device or receives the paging signal of the CS network the PS network may transmit the signal of the PS network in the Rank1 mode. Further the PS network may transmit the signal of the PS network in the Rank2 mode in a time point when the reception of the paging signal of the CS network by the electronic device or ends. In this event the electronic device or may not provide the feedback of the time point when the PS network receives the paging signal of the CS network and switches a reception mode of the signal of the PS network based on whether the paging signal of the CS network is received.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to . A description of parts of the electronic device identical or similar to the electronic device will be omitted. is a block diagram of the electronic device for example electronic device of according to various embodiments. The electronic device includes a transmission reception module a communication control module and an antenna . According to an embodiment the transmission reception module includes a transmission module a first reception module and a second reception module and the antenna includes a first antenna and a second antenna .

According to an embodiment when the signal of the PS network is received through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module may at least temporarily receive the signal of the CS network in preference to the signal of the PS network. For example the communication control module may control the transmission reception module such that the electronic device receives the paging signal of the CS network according to a period of the paging signal of the CS network while communicating with the PS network.

According to an embodiment when the signal of the CS network is received through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module determines whether to receive the signal from the PS network based on a reception intensity of the signal received from the CS network. For example when the signal intensity of the CS network corresponds to a first range for example a service of the CS network can be used even though one antenna is used the communication control module controls such that one of the first reception module and the second reception module receives the signal of the PS network. Further for example the communication control module may control such that a reception module having a relatively weak signal intensity of the CS network between the first reception module and the second reception module receives the signal of the PS network.

For example the control module may control such that the signal of the CS network is received through a reception module having a relatively stronger electric field intensity for example signal intensity of the CS network between the first reception module and the second reception module and the signal of the PS network is received through a reception module having a relatively weaker electric field intensity. Alternatively when the signal intensity of the CS network received by the first reception module and the second reception module corresponds to a second range for example the service of the CS network cannot be stably used when one antenna is used the communication control module may not receive the signal of the PS network. The first range or the second range may be configured based on for example a threshold of the signal intensity and may be variously configured according to a state of the electronic device a setting by the user a region where the electronic device is located an intensity of the communication network and the like.

According to an embodiment the communication control module controls such that at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module determines whether to receive the signal from the PS network based on the paging signal of the CS network or the PS network. For example even when the signal of the CS network has priority over the signal of the PS network if the paging signal of the PS network is received the signal of the PS network may have priority over the signal of the CS network for example a priority of the signal of the PS network is higher than a priority of the signal of the CS network . Further the communication control module may control such that the priorities become equal whenever the paging signal is received or the priorities become different according to a number of times that the paging signal cannot be received. For example when the paging signal of the PS network is received at a predetermined interval for example 3.5 seconds the first paging signal may not be received since the CS network has priority. Then when a second paging signal is received a priority of the PS network may become higher than the priority of the CS network.

Further when the signal intensity of the CS network is less than or equal to for example a reference value a priority of the signal of the CS network may be higher than a priority of the paging signal of the PS network. For example even when the first paging signal of the PS network is not received and the second paging signal of the PS network is received if the signal intensity of the CS network is less than or equal to the reference value the priority of the signal of the CS network may be higher than the priority of the signal of the PS network. Further according to an embodiment when the paging signal of the CS network and the signal of the PS network overlap for example all or some intervals overlap the communication control module may assign a higher priority to the paging signal of the CS network over the paging signal of the PS network. Assigning the priority to the paging signal of the CS network reduces inconvenience felt by the user since the user may be more sensitive to the signal of the CS rather than the signal of the PS network.

According to an embodiment the priority may be assigned to the paging signal of the PS network based on a service provided through the PS network. For example when the PS network provides a voice service and the CS network provides another service for example SMS the paging signal of the PS network may have a higher priority in comparison with the signal of the CS network. Alternatively when the voice service of the PS network has a higher priority in comparison with the voice service of the CS network the paging signal of the PS network may have a higher priority in comparison with the signal of the CS network.

According to an embodiment when the signal received by at least one of the first reception module or the second reception module is changed the communication control module may provide feedback to the first communication network or the second communication network. For example when the signal received by the first reception module or the second reception module is switched from the signal received from the PS network to the signal received from the CS network or from the signal received from the CS network to the signal received from the PS network the communication control module may provide feedback to the CS network or the PS network. According to an embodiment when the paging signal of the CS network or the paging signal of the PS network is received the reception module implemented by the MIMO between the first reception module or the second reception module receives the signal of the PS network while switching a MIMO mode from a first reception mode for example Rank1 mode to a second reception module for example Rank2 mode .

According to an embodiment when the communication control module requires the switching of the reception mode of the signal of the PS network for example switching from the Rank1 mode to the Rank2 mode or from the Rank2 mode to the Rank1 mode the feedback may be provided to the PS network in a time point of the switching of the reception mode. For example when at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module receives the paging signal of the CS network the communication control module provides the feedback to the PS network before the paging signal of the CS network is received. According to an embodiment although not illustrated the communication control module may include a first modem for example the first communication control module or for processing the signal of the CS network or a second modem for example the second communication control module or for processing the signal of the PS network. Further when the paging signal is received from the CS network the first modem may provide feedback of the reception of the paging signal to the second modem. According to an embodiment although not illustrated the transmission reception module may further include a third reception module or a fourth reception module when the PS network provides a data service through CA Carrier Aggregation . For example the first reception module or the third reception module may receive a Primary cell Pcell signal or the signal of the CS network and the second reception module or the fourth reception module may receive a Secondary cell Scell signal or the signal of the CS network. when the signal of the PS network for example Pcell and Scell signals is received through at least one of the first to fourth reception modules at least one of the first to fourth reception modules may at least temporarily receive the signal received from the CS network in preference to the signal received from the PS network.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to . Descriptions of parts of the electronic device identical or similar to the electronic device will be omitted. is a block diagram of the electronic device for example electronic device according to various embodiments. The electronic device includes a first communication module a second communication module a communication control module and an antenna . The antenna may include a first antenna and a second antenna .

According to an embodiment when at least one of the first communication module and the second communication module transmits a signal to the first communication network at least one of the first communication module and the second communication module may at least temporarily receive a signal of the second communication network. Further at least one of the first communication module and the second communication module may transmit a signal to the communication network corresponding to the signal which is being received by the first communication module or the second communication module . For example when the first communication module receives a signal from the first communication network the first communication module transmits a signal to the first communication network.

According to an embodiment when the signal received by the first communication module or the second communication module is changed the communication control module may provide feedback to the first communication network or the second communication network. For example when at least one of the first communication module and the second communication module receives the signal of the second communication network and then receives the signal of the first network the communication control module provides feedback to the second communication network.

According to an embodiment at least one of the first communication module and the second communication module may select the signal of the second communication network in preference to the signal of the first communication network based on a reception intensity of the signal of the first communication network or based on at least one of the signal of the first communication network and the paging signal of the second communication network. For example even though the priority of the first communication network is higher than the priority of the second communication network the priority of the second communication network may become higher than the priority of the first communication network when the paging signal of the second communication network is received.

According to various embodiments the electronic device includes the transmission module for transmitting the signal of the Circuit Switching CS network or the signal of the Packet Switching PS network the first reception module and the second reception module for receiving the signal from the CS network or the PS network and the communication control module for controlling the transmission module and the first and second reception modules. When the signal of the PS network is received through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module the communication control module may at least temporarily receive the signal received from the CS network in preference to the signal received from the PS network through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module.

According to various embodiments the communication control module receives the signal from the PS network through the first reception module and at least temporarily receives the signal from the CS network through the second reception module.

According to various embodiments when the intensity of the signal received from the CS network through the second reception module is within a designated range or the signal is not received the communication control module at least temporarily receives an additional signal from the CS network through the first reception module.

According to various embodiments when the signal of the CS network is received through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module the communication control module may at least temporarily receive the signal received from the PS network through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module in preference to the signal received from the CS network.

According to various embodiments when the signal of the CS network is received through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module the communication control module may receive the signal from the CS network through the first reception module and may at least temporarily receive the signal from the PS network through the second reception module.

According to various embodiments when the signal of the CS network is received through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module the communication control module may determine whether to receive the signal from the PS network through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module based on a reception intensity of the signal received from the CS network.

According to various embodiments the communication control module may receive an additional signal from the CS network through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module based on the signal of the CS network received through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module.

According to various embodiments when the intensity of the signal of the CS network received through the first reception module and the second reception module is within a designated range the communication control module may receive an additional signal from the CS network through a reception module having a smaller signal intensity between the first reception module and the second reception module.

According to various embodiments the communication control module may determine whether to at least temporarily receive the signal from the PS network through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module based on at least one of the paging signals received from the CS network and the PS network.

According to various embodiments when the paging signals received from the CS network and the PS network overlap the communication control module may receive the paging signal of the CS network in preference to the paging signal of the PS network through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module.

According to various embodiments when the signal received by the first reception module or the second reception module is switched from the signal received from the PS network to the signal received from the CS network or from the signal received from the CS network to the signal received from the PS network the communication control module may provide feedback to the CS network or the PS network.

According to various embodiments at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module is implemented by the MIMO scheme and may receive the signal from the PS network in one of the first reception mode and the second reception mode based on the paging signal received from the CS network.

According to various embodiments when at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module receives the paging signal of the CS network the communication control module may provide the feedback to the PS network before the paging signal of the CS network is received.

According to various embodiments the communication control module may include the first modem for processing the signal received from the CS network or the second modem for processing the signal received from the PS network.

According to various embodiments when the paging signal is received from the CS network the first modem may provide feedback of the reception of the paging signal to the second modem.

According to various embodiments the electronic device may further include the first antenna for transmitting and receiving the signal of the CS network or the signal of the PS network and the second antenna for receiving the signal of the CS network or the signal of the PS network.

According to various embodiments the first antenna and the second antenna may have the same receiving sensitivity or a difference of the receiving sensitivities may be within 3 dB.

According to various embodiments when the intensity of the signal of the CS network received through one of the first antenna and the second antenna is within a designated range the communication control module may receive an additional signal of the CS network through the other one of the first antenna and the second antenna.

According to various embodiments the electronic device may further include the third reception module and the fourth reception module for receiving the signal from the CS network or the PS network. The communication control module may receive a first signal from the PS network through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module and receive a second signal from the PS network through at least one of the third reception module and the fourth reception module.

According to various embodiments the first signal and the second signal may include different pieces of information related to the PS network. For example the first signal and the second signal may include information corresponding to a signal received through a frequency of a first band for example 1800 MHz band and information corresponding to a signal received through a frequency of a second band for example 850 MHz band . In a system supporting CA the first signal and the second signal may include different pieces of information corresponding to a signal received through the Pcell and a signal received through the Scell. Alternatively the first signal and the second signal may include information corresponding to a plurality of signals received through a MIMO channel. For example the first signal and the second signal may include different pieces of information corresponding to a signal received through a first MIMO channel and a signal received through a second MIMO channel. In this event the first reception module and the second reception module may receive the first signal through a diversity reception method and the third reception module and the fourth reception module may receive the second signal through a diversity reception method.

According to various embodiments the communication control module may receive the signal from the CS network through one of the third reception module and the fourth reception module when the second signal is not received through at least one of the third reception module and the fourth reception module.

According to various embodiments the communication control module may receive the signal from the CS network through at least one of the first second third and fourth reception modules based on at least one of quality of the first signal and quality of the second signal.

According to various embodiments the electronic device may further include at least one transmission module for transmitting the signal to the CS network or the PS network.

According to various embodiments the communication control module may receive at least one of a unicast signal a broadcast signal and a multicast signal through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception as the signal of the PS network.

According to various embodiments when the signal of the CS network is received through one of the first reception module and the second reception module the communication control module may receive at least one of the broadcasting signal and the multicast signal of the PS network through the other one of the first reception module and the second reception module.

According to various embodiments when the communication control module receives at least one of the broadcast signal and the multicast signal of the PS network through the first reception module and the second reception module and then receives the signal of the CS network through one of the first reception module and the second reception module the communication control module may maintain reception of at least one of the broadcast signal and the multicast signal of the PS network through the other one of the first reception module and the second reception module.

According to various embodiments the communication control module may receive the signal of the CS network in an interval where the broadcast signal is not received through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module.

According to various embodiments when the communication control module receives the unicast signal and the broadcast signal or the multicast signal of the PS network through the first reception module and the second reception module and then receives the signal of the CS network through one of the first reception module and the second reception module the communication control module may stop receiving the unicast signal of the PS network through the other one of the first reception module and the second reception module and maintain the reception of the broadcast signal or the multicast signal of the PS network.

According to various embodiments the electronic device includes the first communication module and the second communication module for transmitting and receiving the first signal of the first communication network or the second signal of the second communication network and the communication control module for controlling the first and second communication modules. When the signal is transmitted to the first communication network through at least one of the first communication module and the second communication module the communication control module may at least temporarily receive the signal of the second communication network through at least one of the first communication module and the second communication module.

According to various embodiments the communication control module may transmit the signal to the communication network corresponding to the signal received by the first communication module or the second communication module through at least one of the first communication module and the second communication module.

According to various embodiments when the signal received by the first communication module or the second communication module is switched from one of the signal of the first communication network and the signal of the second communication network to the other signal the communication control module may provide feedback to the first communication network or the second communication network.

According to various embodiments the communication control module may select the signal of the second communication network in preference to the signal of the first communication network through at least one of the first communication module and the second communication module based on a reception intensity of the signal of the first communication network or based on at least one of the signal of the first communication network and the paging signal of the second communication network.

According to various embodiments when the signal of the second communication network is a signal for a voice service the communication control module may receive the signal of the second communication network in preference to the signal of the first communication network through at least one of the first communication module and the second communication module.

According to various embodiments the electronic device includes the transmission module for transmitting the signal to the CS network or the PS network and the first reception module and the second reception module for receiving the signals from the CS network and the PS network. When the transmission module transmits a first CS network signal to the CS network the communication control module may at least temporarily receive a second CS network signal from the CS network through the first reception module and the second reception module and may at least temporarily receive a first PS network signal from the PS network through the second reception module.

In step when the signal of the PS network is received through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module at least one of the reception modules and of the electronic device may at least temporarily receive the signal of the CS network. For example when the signal of the PS network is received through the first reception module or the second reception module the signal of the PS network may be received through the first reception module and the second reception module and at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module may at least temporarily receive the signal of the CS network.

According to various embodiments the communication method of the electronic device may include an operation of transmitting the signal to the CS network or the PS network and an operation of receiving the signal from the CS network or the PS network by the first reception module or the second reception module. When the signal of the PS network is received through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module the receiving operation may include an operation of at least temporarily receiving the signal of the CS network by at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module.

According to various embodiments when the signal of the CS network is received through at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module the receiving operation may include an operation in which at least one of the first reception module and the second reception module may at least temporarily receive the signal received from the PS network in preference to the signal received from the CS network.

Referring to the LTE system communication control module may receive the broadcast signal of the PS network through the transmission reception antenna for example first antenna of and the reception antenna for example second antenna of . Further the communication control module may monitor the paging signal of the CS network by using the second antenna . For example the communication control module receives the broadcast signal of the PS network through the second antenna and then receives the paging signal of the CS network for a predetermined time on a specified period T . The communication control module may switch a reception mode to receive the monitored paging signal for example paging signal of the CS network . Referring to the communication control module may transmit the signal of the CS network by controlling the transmission reception module and continuously receive the broadcast signal of the PS network by controlling the first reception module .

The broadcast signal for example a signal received through a Broadcast CHannel BCH of LTE may be received by the reception antenna for example second antenna of in a time division scheme. Accordingly the communication control module may receive the signal of the CS network through the reception antenna in an interval for example 2 to 3 ms where the broadcasting signal is not received.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to . Descriptions of parts of the electronic device identical or similar to the electronic device the electronic device or the electronic device will be omitted. is a block diagram of the electronic device for example electronic device and includes a transmission reception module a communication control module and an antenna . According to an embodiment the transmission reception module includes a first transmission module a first reception module a second reception module a third reception module a fourth reception module and a second transmission module . According to an embodiment the transmission reception module may include a plurality of sub transmission reception modules. For example the transmission reception module may include a first sub transmission reception module including the first transmission module the first reception module and the second reception module and a second sub transmission reception module including the second transmission module the third reception module and the fourth reception module . The antenna may include a plurality of antennas. For example the antenna may change a number of antennas or a configuration thereof according to a frequency characteristic supported by the electronic device or a design scheme.

According to an embodiment when the signal of the first communication network for example PS network is received through at least one of the first reception module to the fourth reception module at least one of the first reception module to the fourth reception module may at least temporarily receive the signal of the second communication network for example CS network in preference to the signal of the first communication network. For example the communication control module controls the transmission reception module such that the electronic device receives the paging signal of the second communication network according to a period of the paging signal of the second communication network while communicating with the first communication network.

According to an embodiment when the communication control module communicates in a downlink CA method the communication control module controls such that the reception module and the second reception module receive a first signal for example Pcell signal of the PS network and the third reception module and the fourth reception module receive a second signal for example Scell signal of the PS network. In this event the communication control module controls such that at least one of the first reception module to the fourth reception module at least temporarily receives the signal of the CS network in preference to the signal of the PS network. In this event the communication control module determines at least one reception module to receive the signal of the CS network based on a quality of a characteristic for example signal intensity or reception rate of the signal received by each of the reception modules. Alternatively when the second signal of the PS network is not received for example when Scell add or activation is not performed the communication control module may control to receive the signal of the CS network by using at least one of the third reception module and the fourth reception module .

In step the electronic device determines a reception module for receiving a signal among the at least one reception module. According to an embodiment when a signal state for example signal state of the CS network of the reception module and the first reception module is large enough to provide the communication service for example an intensity of the received signal is sufficiently large or communication quality is within a designated range the electronic device receives a signal for example paging signal of the CS network through at least one of the reception module and the first reception module . For example the electronic device may at least temporarily receive the paging signal of the CS network through a reception module having a relatively worse signal state for the CS network between the reception module and the first reception module while receiving the signal of the PS network through the reception module and the first reception module .

According to an embodiment when the signal of at least one of the reception module and the first reception module is in a state where a communication service cannot be provided the electronic device may receive the signal for example paging signal of the CS network through a reception module having a relatively better signal state between the reception module and the first reception module . For example the electronic device may at least temporarily receive the paging signal of the CS network through the reception module having the relatively better signal state for the CS network between the reception module and the first reception module while receiving the signal of the PS network through reception module and the first reception module .

According to an embodiment when the state of the signal of the reception module and the first reception module is outside a designated range for example when the state of the signal is poor or bad the electronic device may receive the signal for example paging signal of the CS network through the reception module and the first reception module .

According to an embodiment the electronic device may receive a first paging signal of the CS network through the first reception module . The electronic device may determine a state of the signal of the CS network based on the first paging signal. The electronic device may determine a reception module to receive a second paging signal of the CS network based on the state of the signal. For example when the electronic device fails to receive the first paging signal for example a designated number of times or more or for a designated time period or an intensity of the first paging signal is within a designated range the electronic device may receive the second paging signal by changing the first reception module to receive the second paging signal from the first reception module to the reception module . According to an embodiment when the electronic device fails to receive the second paging signal through the reception module or an intensity of the second paging signal is within a designated range the electronic device may receive a third paging signal of the CS network through the reception module and the first reception module .

The embodiments of the present disclosure disclosed in this specification and the accompanying drawings are merely particular examples provided in order to clearly describe the technical contents of the present disclosure and help in an understanding of the present disclosure and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure should be construed that all modifications or modified forms derived based on the technical idea of the present disclosure are included in the scope of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents.

