---

title: Method and apparatus of applying call suppression measures to restrict phone calls
abstract: A determination of whether to perform telephone call blocking includes initiating a telephone call from a call server, determining whether the call is a solicitation call and determining the area code of the call and performing a lookup operation of the area code in a call suppression database. The process may also include retrieving a call block entry for a current day from the call suppression database, and comparing the area code to the call block entry for the current day to determine whether the call should be blocked.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08903071&OS=08903071&RS=08903071
owner: West Corporation
number: 08903071
owner_city: Omaha
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140227
---
This application is a continuation from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 329 812 filed on Dec. 19 2011 and entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS OF APPLYING CALL SUPPRESSION MEASURES TO RESTRICT PHONE CALLS which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention relates to a method and apparatus of restricting undesired phone calls to an end user and in particular to providing a phone system that automatically applies rules and regulations to a telephone network to regulate the times frequency and or source of telephone calls to the end user.

Users may be called by business organizations at any time on their home phone mobile phone or even their office telephone. Generally the calls received by any individual user may be from a business or organization that the user has no desire to contact. The calls may be soliciting services or charities of which the user is not interested in participating or offering money to support.

Various state and Federal government laws rules and regulations offer users privacy from unwanted calls. However those laws may be difficult to enforce and violations may be even more difficult to report. Current phone systems are not equipped with options to automatically apply state and Federal rules with regard to limits on the hours days and times that solicitations are made to the user. Business organization may have no desire to violate the terms of these government rules and regulations. However keeping track of the dates times and localities being called on any given day may be difficult.

One embodiment of the present invention may include a method of determining whether to perform telephone call blocking. The method may include initiating a telephone call from a call server determining whether the call is a solicitation call and determining the area code of the call and performing a lookup operation of the area code in a call suppression database. The method may also provide retrieving at least one call block entry for a current day from the call suppression database and comparing the area code to the at least one call block entry for the current day to determine whether the call should be blocked.

Another example embodiment of the present invention may include an apparatus configured to determine whether to perform telephone call blocking. The apparatus may include a transmitter configured to transmit a telephone call. The apparatus may also include a processor configured to determine whether the call is a solicitation call determine the area code of the call and perform a lookup operation of the area code in a call suppression database and retrieve at least one call block entry for a current day from the call suppression database. The processor is also configured to compare the area code to the at least one call block entry for the current day to determine whether the call should be blocked.

It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein may be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following detailed description of the embodiments of a method apparatus and system as represented in the attached figures is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of selected embodiments of the invention.

The features structures or characteristics of the invention described throughout this specification may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. For example the usage of the phrases example embodiments some embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification refers to the fact that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment may be included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases example embodiments in some embodiments in other embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification do not necessarily all refer to the same group of embodiments and the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

In addition while the term message has been used in the description of embodiments of the present invention the invention may be applied to many types of network data such as packet frame datagram etc. For purposes of this invention the term message also includes packet frame datagram and any equivalents thereof. Furthermore while certain types of messages and signaling are depicted in exemplary embodiments of the invention the invention is not limited to a certain type of message and the invention is not limited to a certain type of signaling.

The regulations of each of the three respective private residences A B and C may be based on Federal state and local government laws and regulations. As may be observed from each of the three example private residences are located in different states across the United States. Each of the private residences is located in a geographically unique area that may be identified by a zip code area code postal code etc. each of which may be used by the telephony regulation database to distinguish certain regulations from one another. For example the telephony regulation database may organize regulations by state zip code and or area code. Such regulations may be regularly updated and downloaded to the database for cross referencing by the telephony server when attempting to dial a particular user located in a particular geographical area.

Phone calls originated from the telephony server may be automatically selected from a spreadsheet of end users telephone numbers. Once the call is dialed the call in progress may be handed over to a telemarketer automatically via a call distribution scheme handled by the telephony server . The call may be routed to the public switched telephone network PSTN which routes the call to its intended destination. The business organization may be responsible for regulating its own phone calling procedures and may require a call regulation system to be adapted to its internal calling infrastructure. Alternatively the call dialing may be performed with the assistance of a third party calling service that matches individual end users or call destinations to the geographical regulations that are enacted within the end users locations.

The regulation service may provide regulation information to the calling and text messaging platforms. For instance the regulation service may be utilized by the telephony server and or text messaging server which are responsible for sending notifications to the intended recipients. For example the regulation service may provide a list of zones that are eligible for a regulation to be applied a list of zone types. Federal State Area Code etc. a list of channels delivery methods that are eligible for a regulation block to be applied a listing of all active one time regulation blocks for a given date and time a listing of all active reoccurring regulation blocks for a given date and time a listing of active one time regulation blocks that are currently in effect based on the start and end times for the regulation adjusted for the local time zone and broken down by area code the most granular zone type available a listing of active reoccurring regulation blocks that are currently in effect adjusted for the local time zone and broken down by area code the most granular zone type available. Any regulations with an allowed window are not included. Other features of the regulation service may allow the deactivation of existing one time and reoccurring regulations a way to create a new one time block or reoccurring regulation blocks for a given zone and channel and a way to log notifications that have been blocked due to the existence of a specific one time or reoccurring regulation.

The user may be able to sort and filter each column except for the actions column which provides options to remove or edit the existing call suppression entry. Selecting the remove option will delete the entry from the database . If a record is active within 15 minutes of removing the record the system will acknowledge removal of the suppression. Selecting the edit action will open the screen shown in and or D. If the status of a date suppression record is complete the user will not be able to edit or remove the record. If the status of a date suppression record is pending the user will not be able to edit the record.

If the call block does exist the current area code of the call will be matched against the existing call block entry at operation . If the current area code of the call is part of the blocked entries then the result will be marked as a regulation block at operation which flags the call as not routed. Alternatively if there is no call block present for the current day or the call block does not prevent the call from being routed an additional regulation may be checked such as whether the call is violating a Federal calling window regulation e.g. no calls allowed 9 PM through 8 AM etc. at operation . If the Federal window is being violated the call may be marked as a regulation block at operation . If the Federal window is not being violated then state laws may be checked by mapping the area code of the call to the particular state at operation . If a state regulation does exist the state s calling window may be checked at operation and if it is not in violation the call may be routed at operation .

Through the interface compliance leaders who monitor the dynamic regulatory environments that impact business to consumer communications e.g. FTC FCC HIPAA and State Regulations have the capability to initiate global and state specific call blocking rules including the ability to apply specific dates recurring days and time blocking settings for specific hours in a day.

An input interface included in the top section of the user interface provides the capability to select the specific states that will be included in the suppression. The central portion of the user interface focuses on the specific dates or days of the week that will be evaluated for the blocked timeframe as well as notes regarding the reason for the regulation. The lower section summarizes the blocks that have been added and the active call filters and regulations that are presently active.

Storage of the criteria input is housed in the regulation database. From these settings the platform evaluates the communication delivery times based on the time zone of the message recipients to determine when calls can be placed based on the configuration settings specified by the conditions for each regulation.

 BlockingByDates stores regulations where the scope of the regulation is to be in effect one particular time. These regulations are associated with specific channels and zones and are in effect for the date range stored in the table. Once a regulation has been entered it cannot be deleted or modified only deactivated. The date and user associated with the regulation s entry is also stored.

 BlockingByDateLogs stores a history of voice calls that have been blocked due to a one time regulation. BlockingByDOW collects regulations where the scope of the regulation is reoccurring for a zone and channel for a specific day of the week. The AllowStartTime and AllowEndTime fields of provide for exceptions of a daily reoccurring regulation for a portion of the day. For example all calls to Louisiana are blocked on Sundays with the exception of the hours of 9 00 AM to 5 00 PM. Once a regulation has been entered it cannot be deleted or modified only deactivated. The date and user associated with the regulation s entry is also stored. The BlockingByDOWLogs entity stores a history of voice calls that have been blocked due to a reoccurring regulation.

The operations of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a computer program executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A computer program may be embodied on a computer readable medium such as a storage medium. For example a computer program may reside in random access memory RAM flash memory read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a compact disk read only memory CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art.

An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor may read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components. For example illustrates an example network element which may represent any of the above described network components of .

As illustrated in a memory and a processor may be discrete components of the network entity that are used to execute an application or set of operations. The application may be coded in software in a computer language understood by the processor and stored in a computer readable medium such as the memory . Furthermore a software module may be another discrete entity that is part of the network entity and which contains software instructions that may be executed by the processor . In addition to the above noted components of the network entity the network entity may also have a transmitter and receiver pair configured to receive and transmit communication signals not shown .

While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been described it is to be understood that the embodiments described are illustrative only and the scope of the invention is to be defined solely by the appended claims when considered with a full range of equivalents and modifications e.g. protocols hardware devices software platforms etc. thereto.

