---

title: Method and apparatus to elicit market research using game play
abstract: A system and method are described for a computer-based picture association game that can be used to elicit market research data, specifically sentiment and awareness data, from consumers. In a first game mode, each player is given an image and a list of phrases, and tasked with selecting the phrase that best describes the image. Then in a second mode, players are presented with a collection of images, including images assigned to players in the first game mode. They are also shown the phrases selected in the first game mode. Each player then has a limited amount of time to both associate these phrases with the corresponding images, and to assist other players in associating his own image. Points are allocated for correct associations. The phrases selected by players and the guesses players make can be analyzed to reveal opinions and knowledge that players have about products, brands, and people.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09610495&OS=09610495&RS=09610495
owner: Upfront Analytics Inc.
number: 09610495
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20140411
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 814 154 filed Apr. 19 2013 entitled Stamp Games which is hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Embodiments relate to a picture association computer game designed to entertain as well as elicit market research or business intelligence data.

Modernly data surveys are used to elicit consumer data. Such surveys are designed as data collection tools to assess peoples thoughts feelings and opinions. For example stores and hotels often use surveys to check on the customer s experience with staff airlines use surveys to get data on the passenger s travel experience and physicians psychologists and sociologists often use surveys to help diagnose medical conditions. While surveys work to some limited degree the questioning used by surveys are usually stated in a non context manner which often causes the subject to ask questions like Why am I being asked this and What do they want me to say Such questioning also may cause a user to answer questions using random answers just to get to the end of the survey as quickly as possible.

Computer games have come into popularity as data mining tools. Since games are inherently designed for entertainment the bulk of the data mining surrounds the data corresponding to the game itself. For example the number of mouse clicks may be counted as well as the users interaction with the game can tell the computer game manufacturer how well the game is being received. In order to gather such data the computer game industry uses metrics such as daily active users DAU Monthly Active Users MAU Engagement and K Factor which denotes the infection rate of viral game growth.

Computer games are typically designed for a particular demographic. For example computer games may be designed for teenage boys. The computer game manufacture will often surreptitiously examine the player profile data or surveys in order to determine the demographic makeup of the computer game players in order to assess whether the game was designed to appeal to a particular demographic. Such designs are often based on focus groups and surveys which have been shown to be ineffective.

Therefore what is needed is a computer game method designed to entertain and engage players gather consumer data to assess thoughts and feelings and obtain useful demographic data while protecting the privacy of the computer game players.

Embodiments include a picture association game that both entertains and elicits market research or business intelligence data. In one embodiment a system is used to present a first image and a first set of phrases associated with the first image to a player. In response to the presentation the player makes an association by selecting a first phrase from one of the phrases to match to the first image. The first image has content that is associated with a product or service being studied for consumer sentiment that relates to the set of first phrases. The system then presents a set of images to the player and also separately presents a second set of phrases to the player. The set of images includes at least a second image that also includes content related to a product or service that has been associated by another player to a second phrase selected from the second set of phrases by the second player. The second phrase is displayed separately to the first player. The first player attempts to find the second image from the second set of images to match to the second phrase. Similarly the second player attempts to find a matching phrase from the first set of phrases that describes the first image. The first and second players are provided points each time they find a correct match. The cumulative point values of the players along with the phrases are analyzed to determine a consumer sentiment with regard to products or services associated with the first image and the second image.

Embodiments include a picture association game that both entertains and elicits market research or business intelligence data. The picture association game is designed for a plurality of players with no set maximum. In an embodiment each player is presented with a query image and a list of phrases. A phrase consists of one or more words that collectively have meaning. He or she is asked to choose a phrase from the list of phrases to associate with the query image called a stamp based on a given criterion or criteria e.g. Pick the phrase that best describes your stamp . Players are then directed to a game interface containing the associated phrases chosen by other players as well as a set of images that include both the other players query images and a collection of distractor images. Distractor images as described herein are used to distract the player so as to require concentration for proper game play. Each player is then given a limited amount of time indicated by a countdown timer to guess the images that have been associated with the phrases chosen by the other players. The first player to both correctly associate the image choices of others and have his own image choice correctly associated wins. Should no player succeed in doing so the winner is decided by other means. For example a player with the highest number of correct associations once the countdown timer reaches zero could be named as winner.

High quality games are inherently engaging over long periods of time as dedicated players play their favorite games again and again. Mobile games are played by all demographics. And game play may tap into instinctual revealed preferences that are less susceptible than survey data to contextual issues and demand characteristics Why am I being asked this What do they want me to say How do I finish this task as quickly as possible . So by structuring games appropriately for market research purposes ambiguity and uncertainty in topic and polarity classification can be avoided by tapping into the broad demographics that play casual mobile games representative sampling can be performed and by weaving data collection into engaging game play revealed sentiment can be measured while avoiding the extremes that occur in unprompted expression. For these and other reasons data mining of specialized mobile games is an exciting new approach to gathering market research.

To this end the inventors have invented The Stamp Game a multi player picture association game which may be played on virtually any computing device including mobile devices likes smartphones and tablets. In one embodiment the game is played by two people but in other embodiments three or more can play. In the four player embodiment shown in the system comprises client devices that are connected via a communications network to a game server running on a computer . The client devices can be virtually any kind of computer such as a desktop laptop smartphone tablet wearable computer and the like. The communications network can be virtually any kind of computer network such as a packet switched network a local area network a cellular phone network and the like. The computer can be virtually any type of computing device such as a cloud computer mainframe Graphics Processing Unit GPU based processor and the like. In one embodiment a game consists of a single round of play divided into two sequential game modes one played after the other. When a player activates the The Stamp Game application on his mobile device the loading screen in is presented to him. Following this the menu screen of appears. From there the player can choose via a screen button to play the game. At this point in one example embodiment the player is informed via screen in that the game server is searching for three other players who are also waiting to play the game and is given an estimated waiting time . The game server considers the data in the player database shown in when potentially matching players. While the data in the database as shown in one example consists of player IDs demographic data and data about players playing skill and interests other data is contemplated. In one embodiment the matching algorithm is shown in . The players waiting to play are stored in the game room . In the first loop through step the player who has been waiting the longest is picked as the initial player. Step of the matching algorithm checks if there is a candidate player who is also in the game room and who has not yet been considered for the player set. If all the players have been considered and none is an ideal match then the next player is picked randomly and added to the player set . If a candidate partner is identified at step then the matching algorithm tests that player for demographic compatibility with players already in the player set . For example two players may be considered as demographically compatible if they had similar values for their demographic attributes in the player database. If a candidate partner is still in consideration after step then that player is tested for skill level and interest compatibility with other players . For example two players may be considered as being compatible if they had similar values for their skill level and interest attributes in the player database. In this embodiment if a candidate partner passes both steps and then she is added to the player set . This process is then repeated until all four players have been found . If four players have been found the matching algorithm ends at . If four player have not been found the matching algorithm returns to .

Once all players have been matched they are informed via the screen display in that a complete group of players has been found and the game is about to commence. The skill level interests and past game related achievements of the other players are depicted by the avatar and badge images so that each player has some knowledge about the skill level and interests of the players with whom he has been matched. Game mode one the first of two sequential game modes in one embodiment then begins. In game mode one each player is shown a unique image hereafter known as the player s stamp . In game mode one each player is also shown a unique list of phrases hereafter called descriptors . In one embodiment most of the descriptor phrases are sentiment oriented words fashionable strange expensive arrogant etc. so as to encourage the players to provide sentiment associations over factual and obvious associations through their choice of descriptors. Each player is asked from instruction to pick the descriptor that best describes his stamp image shown in and may touch or click on the image to see a larger version as shown in screen of . Each player can scroll over his list of descriptor phrases and then make his choice by touching or clicking one of the descriptor phrases . In a player s screen shows his stamp image with the caption Strively a descriptor phrase that the player has chosen from the selection of descriptors from the descriptor phases to associate with his stamp image . In the player s screen shows his stamp image with an alternative selection of descriptor phrase Expensive . In the player s screen shows his stamp image with yet another alternative selection of descriptor phrase in descriptor phases Fashionable . The countdown clock indicates the amount of time a player has to choose the descriptor. If a player does not choose one of the descriptor phases before the clock counts down to zero a random descriptor from descriptor phases will be associated with his stamp image .

When a player is finished assigning a descriptor to his stamp image he touches or clicks the next button to be brought to the waiting screen in which is displayed to each player until all players have completed game mode one. Game mode two begins when every player has completed the descriptor selection task in game mode one. Example field of play screen of is composed of a variety of images again called stamps a countdown clock a running points total and a number of blank stamps with captions in this embodiment three blank stamps are shown . In this embodiment a large number of distractor images that have not been chosen by players in game mode one are randomly selected from a database of images and placed on the field of play . Sometimes not all images on the field of play will be visible meaning players will have to pan from one end of the screen to the other using touch or button controls to access them. These additional distractor images increase the challenge for game mode two by making it hard for the players to find the stamp images needed to complete game mode two. Each caption on the blank stamps is a descriptor such as descriptor Strively that has already been associated with one of the images by another player in the game mode one. Players are given a set amount of time indicated by the countdown clock to correctly associate images with descriptor phrase by dragging and dropping the stamp image they think has been associated with a given descriptor by another player on to the blank stamp associated with that descriptor. illustrates an example interface for game mode two wherein a player is dragging and dropping the highlighted image onto the space associated with the phrase Tired resulting in a completed association between the stamp image and the descriptor phrase Tired .

Should a player succeed in making a correct association he is allocated points equal to the image s current stamp value which deteriorates as time progresses and presented with the example screen shown in . In this embodiment a player is allowed to guess up to five times without incurring a penalty. For each incorrect guess the player is warned that he has only a certain number of his free guesses remaining. In the example shown the player has been informed that he has four guesses remaining before a penalty is incurred. If these guesses are exhausted the player is temporarily locked out of the game as in .

When one or more players have correctly associated a given player s stamp with its descriptor phrase caption it will appear segmented to him. Screen of presents such a segmented stamp as a result of another player correctly associating it with the descriptor phrase Strively . The normally colored segment comprises about one third of the image indicating that one player has correctly associated the player s stamp image with Strively while the more muted coloring of the segment which makes up the remaining two thirds of the stamp image indicates that two players have yet to guess it correctly.

In some embodiments a player who has correctly associated all other players stamps and descriptor phrases and not yet had every player associate his stamp image and phrase may be permitted to aid them in their search. show an example of a game mechanic that would allow this. Screen of informs a player that as he has correctly associated the other players images with their descriptor phrase captions he is now tasked with helping them associate his image stamp with his descriptor phrase. In he then drags and drops image that could also be plausibly be associated with the descriptor Strively into a garbage can thereby removing it from the collection of stamps . To ensure that other players actually select it the player is not permitted to discard his own image stamp .

Should every player succeed in finding the correct image for a player s descriptor it is highlighted on the player s screen as a fully segmented stamp image and he is presented with screen of which informs him that he has won the game because he has associated every other player s image with its proper descriptor phrase and had his own stamp image associated with the correct descriptor phrase by every other player. The other players are also informed that the game has ended with the winning player being identified as Player 2 and that the score is being tabulated . The game can also end when the countdown reaches zero regardless of whether any player has correctly found the associated phrases for all stamps.

Screen of shows an example scoring screen. Players are allocated points both when other players correctly associate their image with the correct descriptor phrase and when they succeed in associating the images of others with the correct descriptor phrases. The exact number of points won is dependent on the image s stamp value . The winner is also given an additional winner s bonus . These when summed yield a player s total score .

Some embodiments may include leaderboards. Screen of shows an example leaderboard outlining the five players with the highest point totals of recent games. Player 2 who scored 5510 points in a game played on November 10 is leading he or she is followed by talldude with a score of 4900 points on October 16 keyboard who scored 4450 points on November 12 cutegirl with 4500 points on November 19 and Angelina with a score of 1000 points on December 12.

As an example of how The Stamp Game may be used to generate market research data the selected phrase Strively in the example scenario from and shows an awareness of a recent product initiative of that name by the athletic shoes brand whose product is depicted in the image Brand N. Alternate selections would indicate a comment on the pricing of the brand s products based on descriptor Expensive or some positive sentiment about the brand based on descriptor Fashionable . Market research data may be derived from such selections. For example such selections may be weighted to take into account the time dependent stamp value mechanic which encourages players to make the first association that comes to mind. Lower stamp values generally indicate a lower awareness of or lower sentiment toward a brand the inverse applies to higher stamp values. By integrating game play data from thousands of highly engaged players over days weeks or months we can discern significant patterns of awareness and sentiment. show hypothetical visualizations of such integrated data. contains two word clouds that show the relative frequency with which sentiment oriented descriptors were chosen for an image of a product by Brand R on the left and an image of a product by Brand P on the right. The word clouds show that Brand R s shoes are perceived as colorful and fashionable whereas Brand P s shoes are perceived as cheap and retro. Finally the chart in shows the relative selection frequency of the word Strively for an image of Brand N s new product by two demographic segments over a six month period in which Brand N began promoting the new product. This visualization tracks the degree to which the new product campaign has been noticed by males and females in the 18 24 age range. Graphs and show males were more receptive to the campaign than females with both groups going from low initial name recognition to high recognition and then to the beginning of a decline in recognition as the marketing campaign slackened.

In some embodiments players may select decoy images to associate with other players descriptors. show an example of how this game mechanic may be implemented. Screen of is presented to a player after he has selected the descriptor to associate with his original image . On this screen the player is asked to pair the given descriptors all of which have been chosen by other players to associate with the other players respective stamp images with the best decoy images . The player may scroll through the images to see larger versions. For example touching or clicking an image may be used to further enlarge the image . Once the player has decided which images to use he drags and drops them on to the blank stamp next to each descriptor phrase. In screen of an image has been dragged and dropped on to the phrase Tired . By screen of the player has associated all of the given phrases with decoys . In game mode two if another player chooses one of these decoys to associate with the descriptor phrases assigned to them the player receives bonus points . At the end of each game on screen of players can see the points they received when other players selected their decoys as well as those netted by other players for theirs . As with his own original image a player is not permitted to discard the decoys he has chosen in the discarding phase of this embodiment of game mode two in order to ensure that it is still possible for other players to associate them with the phrases with which he has associated them thus netting him points.

Some embodiments may include a chat room or discussion forum designed to both foster a sense of community amongst players and elicit player insights on the reasons for their choices. Screen of shows an example chat interface. Players may type messages into the typing bar using the on screen keyboard that are displayed for other players in real time .

In one embodiment the screen display in shows a list of power ups for the The Stamp Game . Power ups unlock entertaining game features that can be given to players as rewards or that can be sold to players for virtual or real currency. The power ups for The Stamp Game listed in are 

In other embodiments the images and descriptor lists presented to players may depend on physical context. For example certain phrases used as descriptors may be associated with specific geographic locations e.g. sneakers and tennis shoes are the preferred terms for athletic shoes in different parts of the United States. The context may even be very local with different images and descriptor lists used if the players are in different types of buildings such as a church workplace home hotel store restaurant and the like. The location data used to establish context may be derived from user supplied data in the player database or by using a geographic location technology such as GPS IP address etc.

In one embodiment the types of images presented to the player may be varied based on interests listed in the user supplied data in the player database or in response to user input by the players. In another embodiment the reading level of the descriptors presented to the players may be varied based on user supplied data in the player database or in response to user input by the players.

The cost of suitable descriptor lists for the images in The Stamp Game can represent a significant fraction of the development cost for the entire system. It is therefore advantageous to develop cost effective means for sourcing them. In one embodiment one or more novel processes as described herein are used to generate the descriptor lists for images.

In one embodiment techniques such as crowdsourcing may be used to generate descriptor lists by receiving responses to queries from teams of human contributors typically via the Internet. For example lists may be generated by presenting an image combined with a question about said image to a crowdsourcing service such as Amazon s Mechanical Turk and then retrieving answers. A question like What springs to mind when you see this image could be sent to several participants in the crowdsourcing system and their answers combined and filtered to improve quality. For example one player might answer spring silence and flowers while another might respond flowers home and walking . By picking only words that are reported multiple times like flowers in this example the quality and obviousness of the phrases can be improved.

In another embodiment descriptor lists for The Stamp Game may be crowdsourced by having human contributors play a word game. For example a game like Pictionary could be used to get contributors to generate lists of phrases that describe the same drawing.

Phrases may also be generated by extraction from on line and physical documents that contain images. For example an OCR device may be configured to read documents to extract words or a Web bot could be configured to extract words and phrases from documents on the World Wide Web. Reverse image searching the process of beginning a Web search with an image and searching for pages containing similar images may be used to generate suitable Web documents.

In another embodiment words and phrases may be sourced from the metadata associated with images from a stock photo agency such as Getty Images or Corbis . Care must be taken to ensure that intellectual property rights are respected when using such images and metadata.

In at least some embodiments a request from the client device can be received to an interface layer associated with a destination address of the request where the interface layer can include components such as routers load balancers application programming interfaces and the like. The interface layer can receive the request and direct information for the request to one or more computing resources such as one or more Web servers and or one or more application servers which can process the request using data in one or more data stores or databases in at least some embodiments. It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks as discussed and suggested herein. As used herein a data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. A server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between a client device and a resource can be handled by the Web server. It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depictions of various systems and services herein should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

Various aspects can be implemented as part of at least one service or Web service. Services such as Web services can communicate using any appropriate type of messaging such as by using messages in extensible markup language XML format and exchanged using an appropriate protocol such as SOAP derived from the Simple Object Access Protocol . Processes provided or executed by such services can be written in any appropriate language such as the Web Services Description Language WSDL . Using a language such as WSDL allows for functionality such as the automated generation of client side code in various SOAP frameworks. Various embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet a cellular network an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof. Server s may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java or C or any scripting language such as Perl or Python as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include any of a number of different database servers.

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

