---

title: Pluggable active optical module with managed connectivity support and simulated memory table
abstract: A pluggable active optical module (AOM) having an electrical connector at a first end and one or more optical adapters at a second end is disclosed. The AOM includes a storage device interface at the second end, and a programmable processor coupled to the storage device interface and one or more first contacts of the electrical connector. The programmable processor is configured to access a storage device in one or more optical fibers through the storage device interface and provide physical layer management (PLM) information obtained therefrom to a host device connected to the electrical connector. The AOM also includes a switch coupled between a second contact of the electrical connector and ground, the switch coupled to the programmable processor such that that programmable processor can control the switch to selectively connect a second contact of the electrical connector to ground.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544058&OS=09544058&RS=09544058
owner: CommScope Technologies LLC
number: 09544058
owner_city: Hickory
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140923
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 881 706 filed on Sep. 24 2013 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Data centers utilize high speed optical fiber connectivity to interconnect ports from network elements such as servers switches and routers to other network elements. These network elements can be configured for use with a pluggable active optical module that converts a high speed serial electrical signal at a port of the network element to and from an optical signal. Such a pluggable active optical module can be integrated into a connector of a fiber optic cable or can be separate from any cable which is commonly referred to as a pluggable active optical module AOM . A pluggable AOM has an electrical connector on one side for connection with a port of the network element also referred to herein as a host device and one or more optical adapters on the other side for connection with a fiber optic cable. One example of a pluggable AOM is a small form factor pluggable SFP module.

The mechanical and electrical interface between the network element and a pluggable active optical module is defined by a set of multi source agreement MSA documents. These documents are based on functional requirements defined in IEEE standard 802.3 for Ethernet and T11 X3T9.3 for Fiber Channel. The MSA defines one pin of the electrical interface as a module present pin . The module present pin is used by the network element to detect when a pluggable AOM is present in the respective port.

An embodiment described herein relates to a pluggable active optical module AOM having an electrical connector at a first end for communicating electrical signals and one or more optical adapters at a second end for communicating optical signals to from one or more optical fibers. The AOM includes a storage device interface at the second end wherein the storage device interface is configured to contact a corresponding storage device interface on the one or more optical fibers. The AOM also includes a transmitter optical assembly TOSA for converting electrical signals from the electrical connector into optical signals for transmission over the one or more optical fibers and a receiver optical assembly ROSA for converting optical signals from the one or more optical fibers to electrical signals for sending from the electrical connector. The AOM also includes a controller for controlling the TOSA and ROSA and a programmable processor coupled to the storage device interface and one or more first contacts of the electrical connector. The programmable processor is configured to access a storage device in the one or more optical fibers through the storage device interface and provide physical layer management PLM information obtained therefrom to a host device connected to the electrical connector. The AOM also includes a switch coupled between a second contact of the electrical connector and ground the switch coupled to the programmable processor such that that programmable processor can control the switch to selectively connect a second contact of the electrical connector to ground.

In accordance with common practice the various described features are not drawn to scale but are drawn to emphasize specific features relevant to the examples. Like reference numbers and designations in the various drawings indicate like elements.

The system is described here as including two host devices that are implemented as Gigabit ETHERNET switches though the system can include one or more than two switches and or different types of host devices . Consequently the two host devices shown in are also referred to here as switches . Examples of other types of host devices that can be used include without limitation routers gateways access points server computers end user computers appliance computers such as network attached storage NAS devices and nodes of a storage area network SAN . Also in the example shown in the system includes two passive optical interconnects that are implemented as two fiber patch panels though the system can include a different number of fiber patch panels including a system without patch panels and or different types of passive optical interconnects . Consequently the two passive optical interconnects shown in are also referred to here as fiber patch panels . Examples of other types of passive optical interconnects that can be used include without limitation other types of optical patch panels fiber distribution hubs FDH fiber splice panels fiber trays and fiber termination points. Examples of active optical modules and physical communication media include without limitation GIGABIT ETHERNET FIBRE CHANNEL INFINIBAND Serial Attached SCSI SAS and SONET SDH.

Many types of host devices and passive optical interconnects include multiple ports though the techniques described here are not limited to host devices or passive optical interconnects that include multiple ports.

In the example shown in a first active optical module is connected to a first port of a first one of the two switches . A second active optical module is connected to a second port of a second one of the two switches . In the example shown in each of the ports of the switches are configured to include an inventory interface shown in . The inventory interface in the ports is configured to mate and inter operate with a complimentary inventory interface in each of the active optical modules . Software executing on a programmable processor associated with each switch is able to read and write data to and from a storage device e.g. a storage device within a microprocessor as shown in included in each active optical module that is connected to a given port using that port s inventory interface. The software and programmable processor are implemented in a conventional manner except as described here.

A passive optical connector at a first end shown in of respective physical communication media is connected to the first and second active optical modules . The active optical module is configured to perform the electrical to optical E O and optical to electrical O E conversions for signals to be sent and received over the respective PCM to and from a respective switch .

In the example shown in a passive optical connector at a second end shown in of the PCM is connected to a duplex port of one of the two fiber patch panels . This fiber patch panel is also referred to here as the first patch panel and the port to which the first physical communication media is connected is also referred to here as the first patch panel port . The passive optical connector at the passive end of the second physical communication media is connected to a duplex port of the second of the two fiber patch panels . This fiber patch panel is also referred to here as the second patch panel and the port to which the second active optical cable segment is connected is also referred to here as the second patch panel port .

In the example shown in each of the patch panel ports of the fiber patch panels is configured to include a storage device interface not separately shown . The storage device interface in each port is configured to mate and inter operate with a storage device interface used in the passive optical connector of the second end of the respective PCM . Software executing on a programmable processor such as a controller associated with the fiber patch panel is able to read and write data from and to a storage device associated with any passive optical connector that is connected to a given port using that port s storage device interface. The software and programmable processor can be implemented in the manner described in the US provisional patent applications and US non provisional patent applications cited herein. One example of such a storage device and interface are the storage devices and interfaces used in the QUAREO family of physical layer management products that are commercially available from TE Connectivity.

In the example shown in each patch panel port in the first fiber patch panel is communicatively coupled to a respective patch panel port in the second fiber patch panel via an optical trunk cable . The optical trunk cable is a multiple fiber cable where each duplex port of each of the fiber patch panels is connected to a respective pair of fibers in the trunk cable . The trunk cable includes a multi fiber connector for example a suitable MPO or MTP connector at each end of the cable . Each fiber patch panel includes a trunk connector for example a suitable MPO or MTP connector designed to be connected to the multi fiber connector attached to the trunk cable .

In this example each multi fiber connector attached to the optical trunk cable also includes or is otherwise associated with a respective storage device and the connectors and include or are otherwise associated with a respective storage device interface not shown by which the software running on each fiber patch panel can read and write data to the storage device . The storage devices that are included in or otherwise associated with the multi fiber connectors attached to the trunk cable are also referred to here as the trunk cable storage devices . The storage device interface can be implemented as described in the manner described in the US provisional patent applications and US non provisional patent applications cited herein.

In other implementations the trunk cable plugged into the first patch panel is different from the trunk cable plugged into the second patch panel . In some implementations the two trunk cables may be connected at a third patch panel. In other implementations the two trunk cables may be connected using a panel network of multiple patch panels and trunk cables. In still other implementations multiple trunk cables may extend between the first and second patch panels . For example in some implementations multiple single optical fiber cables may extend between the patch panels or panel network. In other implementations multiple multi fiber cables may extend between the patch panels or panel network.

Non limiting examples of patch panels suitable for use as panels are shown and disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 750 and United States Publication No. US 2011 0116748 which were incorporated by reference above. Other non limiting examples of patch panels suitable for use as panels are shown and disclosed in United States Publication No. US 2011 0115494 A1 filed Oct. 19 2010 and titled MANAGED ELECTRICAL CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS U.S. application Ser. No. 12 905 689 filed Oct. 15 2010 and titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS AND METHODS THEREOF U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 466 696 filed Mar. 23 2011 and titled CABLE MANAGEMENT IN RACK SYSTEMS and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 476 041 filed Apr. 15 2011 and titled MANAGED ELECTRICAL CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

In the example shown in the system further comprises an aggregation point . The aggregation point switches and fiber patch panels communicate with one another over a network . The aggregation point is typically implemented as software that runs on a computer that is coupled to the network . The computer on which the aggregation point is implemented includes an appropriate network interface to communicatively couple the computer to the network . In the example shown in the programmable processors and in the switches and fiber patch panels respectively are communicatively coupled to the network by including a respective management or non service port that is separate from the service ports and . However one or more of the programmable processors and in the switches and fiber patch panels respectively can be communicatively coupled to the network using one or more of the service ports and . In an example the switches can communicate with the aggregation point using a suitable communication protocol such as the Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP or a telnet session to obtain information via CLI .

In one embodiment the network comprises an INTERNET PROTOCOL network. The network can be implemented using one or more of a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the INTERNET a virtual local area network VLAN and a virtual private network VPN an enterprise network and a telecommunication service provider network. Moreover the switches and fiber patch panels can be a part of the equipment used to implement the network .

The aggregation point is configured to receive physical layer information pertaining to various devices and media used to implement the physical layer in the network not just the physical communication media . The physical layer information can be sent to the aggregation point over the non service ports . Physical layer information may also be manually supplied to the aggregation point .

The physical layer information PLI includes information about various devices in the network for example information about the active optical modules switches and fiber patch panels also referred to here as device information as well as information about any physical communication media attached to the ports of those devices also referred to here as media information . The device information includes for example an identifier for each device a type identifier that identifies the device s type and port information that includes information about the device s ports. The media information includes information that is read from storage devices that are attached to various physical communication media for example from the storage devices that are attached to the physical communication media and storage devices that are attached to the optical trunk cables .

Examples of media information that can be stored in such storage devices include without limitation a cable identifier that uniquely identifies that particular physical communication media similar to an ETHERNET Media Access Control MAC address but associated with the physical communication media e.g. a serial number for the physical communication media a cable end identifier that identifies one end of the physical communication media from the other a port insertion count a cable end insertion count as well as attribute information such as a part number a plug or other connector type a cable or fiber type e.g. single mode multimode and length fiber rating e.g. om2 om3 om4 etc. a cable polarity a date of manufacture a manufacturing lot number information about one or more visual attributes of physical communication media or a connector attached to the physical communication media such as information about the color or shape of the physical communication media or connector or an image of the physical communication media or connector and other information used by an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system or inventory control system. In other embodiments alternate or additional data is stored in such storage devices as media information. For example the media information can include testing media quality or performance information stored in such storage devices. The testing media quality or performance information for example can be the results of testing that is performed when a particular physical communication media is manufactured or installed.

The physical layer information can also include information about physical communication media that does not have any storage devices attached to it.

The aggregation point includes a database or other data store not shown for storing the physical layer information provided to it. The aggregation point also includes functionality that provides an interface for external devices or entities to access the physical layer information maintained by the aggregation point . This access can include retrieving information from the aggregation point as well as supplying information to the aggregation point . In this example the aggregation point is implemented as middleware that is able to provide such external devices and entities with transparent and convenient access to the PLI maintained by the aggregation point . Because the aggregation point aggregates PLI from the relevant devices in the network and provides external devices and entities with access to such PLI the external devices and entities do not need to individually interact with all of the devices in the network that provide PLI nor do such devices need to have the capacity to respond to requests from such external devices and entities.

The aggregation point in this example implements an application programming interface API by which application layer functionality can gain access to the physical layer information maintained by the aggregation point using a software development kit SDK that describes and documents the API.

The aggregation point can aggregate the PLI from the devices and physical communication media to associate ports of devices e.g. patch panels with physical communication media. For example the PLI can be used to associate a given port of a device with a given physical communication media and or a particular connector of the physical communication media. Aggregating the PLI can include aggregating multiple such associations to determine physical layer connections between devices.

More information about physical layer information and the aggregation point can be found in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 152 624 filed on Feb. 13 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS AND METHODS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 497 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled AGGREGATION OF PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION RELATED TO A NETWORK both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Each physical communication media has a first end and a second end with one or more optical fibers therebetween. The first end of the PCM includes a passive fiber optic connector attached thereto. The passive optical connector can be connected to a pluggable active optical module for communication with a host device . The passive optical connector can pass optical signals between the fiber pair and the active optical module . The active optical module includes the active optical components that perform the electrical to optical E O and optical to electrical O E conversions for signals to be sent and received over a fiber pair of a PCM to and from a host device .

One example of a passive optical connector is a duplex LC SC or MPO fiber connector. In other examples the physical communication media can be implemented in other ways such as a simplex cable a hybrid cable a multi channel cable etc. and the passive end is implemented in a manner suitable for that type of cable for example using a simplex connector a hybrid cable connector or a multi channel cable connector .

In this example each passive optical connector includes or is otherwise associated with a storage device . The passive optical connector is configured to include a storage device interface via which the storage device can be accessed. This storage device interface can be implemented by incorporating appropriate electrical contacts in the passive optical connector .

Various examples of storage device interfaces are described in United States Patent Publication No. US 2011 0116748 filed Oct. 15 2010 and titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN FIBER OPTIC SYSTEMS AND METHODS THEREOF U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 841 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled MANAGED FIBER CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 750 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 152 624 filed on Feb. 13 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS AND METHODS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 497 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled AGGREGATION OF PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION RELATED TO A NETWORK all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference. In some of these examples a four line storage device interface is used where the interface includes a single data line for reading and writing data a power line for providing power to the storage device a ground line for providing a ground level and an extra line reserved for future use. Also in these examples a storage device that supports the UNI O bus protocol is used where the UNI O bus protocol is used for communicating over the single data lead. One example of such a storage device and interface are the storage devices and interfaces used in the QUAREO family of physical layer management products that are commercially available from TE Connectivity.

The second end of the PCM can include either a passive fiber optic connector or active optical connector. The examples of illustrate the second end using a passive optical connector including a storage device and a corresponding storage device interface. Such a passive optical connector can be connected to a corresponding pluggable AOM for interfacing with a respective host device . In other examples the second of the PCM can comprise an active optical connector. An active optical connector has an integrated active optical module integrated therein which includes active optical components that perform the electrical to optical E O and optical to electrical O E conversions necessary for signals to be sent and received over a fiber pair of a PCM to and from a host device .

In any case a passive optical connector on a PCM can be connected to a pluggable active optical module for communication with a host device . The active optical module includes an optical adapter configured to mate with the passive optical connector . The optical adapter and the passive optical connector are configured such that when the passive optical connector is inserted into the adapter optical signals can be coupled between the active optical module and the physical communication media . The optical adapter can have any suitable form such as a duplex LC SC or MPO adapter.

Each active optical module includes an electrical connector by which transmit and receive signals are input and output in electrical form typically as respective differential signal pairs to and from the active optical module . The electrical connector also includes contact traces for power PWR and GND lines for providing power and ground to the active components in the active optical module . In an example the active optical module comprises a Gigabit ETHERNET active optical module that implements one or more of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.3 family of standards relating to 1 10 or 40 Gigabit ETHERNET. In this example the electrical connector is implemented as an edge type connector having contact traces for each of the lines required by the Gigabit ETHERNET standards relating to electrical Gigabit ETHERNET connectors that is TX and TX contact traces for the transmit differential signal pair and RX and RX contact traces for the receive differential signal pair . In one common application the specifications for the active optical module are not standardized by any official standards body but are specified by a multi source agreement MSA between competing manufacturers. This is also referred to here as a MSA compatible active optical module or MSA compatible transceiver . The electrical connector and the rest of the active optical module can be any suitable connector and module such as small form factor connectors and modules including MSA compatible connectors and modules such as a SFP SFP QSFP QSFP CFP and CXP conforming connectors and modules as well as other types of active optical modules for example active optical modules other than MSA compatible active optical modules .

Each active optical module includes the active optical components that perform the electrical to optical E O and optical to electrical O E conversions necessary for signals to be sent and received over a fiber pair of a PCM connected to an optical adapter . In the example shown in the active optical module includes an optical transceiver . The optical transceiver comprises a receiver optical assembly ROSA that receives a first optical signal from a first one of the optical fibers and is part of the path that produces a first received electrical signal from the first optical signal suitable for outputting from the electrical connector . The optical transceiver further comprises a transmitter optical assembly TOSA that in the path that receives the electrical transmit signal from the electrical connector and outputs a second transmit optical signal for communicating over the second one of the optical fibers . The received electrical signal and the transmit electrical signal can be output supplied to the electrical connector . As noted above in this example the received electrical signal is output on the electrical connector as a differential pair of electrical signals RX and RX that complies with one or more of the IEEE 802.3 family of standards relating to 10 or 40 Gigabit ETHERNET. Likewise the transmit electrical signal to be transmitted on the physical communication media is supplied on the electrical connector as a differential pair of electrical signals TX and TX that complies with one or more of the IEEE 802.3 family of standards relating to 1 10 or 40 Gigabit ETHERNET. The transceiver also includes a controller for controlling the operation of the TOSA and ROSA . The controller can include any suitable ASIC and can be coupled to one or more lines on the electrical connector for communication with a host device .

The active optical module also includes a programmable processor coupled to a storage device . The programmable processor can include any suitable programmable processor such as a microprocessor and the storage device can be on a separate IC or can be incorporated one the same IC as the programmable processor . In an implementation of this example the storage device is an EEPROM however in other implementations other non volatile memory can be used.

The active optical module is also configured to obtain PLM information from the storage device associated with the passive optical connector that is inserted into the adapter of the active optical module . The programmable processor is configured to access the storage device through a storage device interface associated with the adapter . The storage device interface is configured to mate and inter operate with the storage device interface used in the passive optical connector of the physical communication media . Software executing on the programmable processor of the active optical module is able to read and write data from and to the storage device associated with any appropriate passive optical connector that is connected to the adapter using the storage device interface . The software and programmable processor can implement reading and writing to the storage device in the US provisional patent application and US non provisional patent applications cited herein.

The host device includes a protocol integrated circuit that is coupled to a first plurality of contacts in the edge card connector and is configured to communicate with the controller in the transceiver of the active optical module to control the electrical optical conversion in the transceiver . A serializer deserializer SERDES in the host device is coupled to a second plurality of contacts in the edge card connector and provides transmit and receive signal paths for high speed data between the host device and the active optical module . The receiver lines RD RD are the differential receiver inputs to the SERDES from the transceiver of the active optical module . In an example the receiver lines are AC coupled 100 Ohm differential lines which are terminated at the SERDES . The transmitter lines TD TD are the differential transmitter outputs from the SERDES to the transceiver of the active optical module . In an example AC coupling for the transmitter and receiver lines is done inside the active optical module .

A programmable processor such as a programmable array logic PAL programmable logic device PLD microcontroller or microprocessor in the host device is coupled to a third plurality of contacts in the edge card connector and implements an inventory interface between the host device and the active optical module . The programmable processor is coupled to contacts on the electrical connector that correspond to the third plurality of contacts and therefore is coupled to the inventory interface of the host device . The programmable processor of the active optical module is configured to communicate with the programmable processor of the host device over the inventory interface.

The controller converts current mode logic CML transmitter TD inputs from the SERDES of a host device into a drive signal for a VCSEL or laser diode electrical to electrical conversion . The controller also controls the biasing levels to insure that the VCSEL or laser diode is operating in lasing mode. The controller also converts the signal from the ROSA and drives the CML lines for the receiver RD output electrical to electrical conversion .

As mentioned above the active optical module also includes a programmable processor and a storage device . Information in the storage device can be accessed by a host device over the inventory interface implemented by the electrical connector discussed above. The inventory interface includes one data contact DATA and one clock contact CLK over which data and clock signals are exchanged between the programmable processor of the host device and the programmable processor in the active optical module . In an example the inventory interface is a serial communication interface. In some examples the programmable processor and the programmable processor implement the IC I squared C bus protocol over the inventory interface .

The programmable processor of the host device is configured to access the storage device indirectly via the programmable processor . The programmable processor is configured to receive a command for example a read command or write command from a host device for the storage device and take appropriate action and provide an appropriate response. For example in response to a read command from the host device the programmable processor can access the storage device to obtain the appropriate data that is with data corresponding to the memory locations or fields identified in the read command and respond with the data in a format as though the data were from the storage device directly. In response to a write command from the host device the programmable processor can store the corresponding information in the storage device . In an implementation of this example the programmable processor is transparent to the host device .

The storage device includes information pertaining to the active optical module of which the storage device is a part. This information is referred to herein as active optical module AOM information. The AOM information is information intended for use by the host device or a management system that is used to manage the host device . Typically the AOM information is information that is prescribed by a manufacturer of the host device and is controlled at least in part by an MSA.

An example use of AOM information is for authenticating the active optical module to the host device . Many types of host devices require an active optical module to be authenticated before the ports can be enabled for use with those active optical modules . The authentication could also be performed by a device other than host device . Example AOM information includes performance calibration boot firmware and vendor proprietary information for the AOM . The AOM information can include an AOM identifier for example a serial number that uniquely identifies the active optical module of which the corresponding storage device is a part. The AOM information can also include attribute information such as the bandwidth of the cable for example 1 Gigabit 10 Gigabit 25 Gigabit etc. and a communication protocol s for which the active optical module was designed. As used herein PLM information refers to information that is specifically intended for use by the aggregation point or more generally a PLM system whereas AOM information refers to information that is intended for purposes other than use by an aggregation point or more generally a PLM system . The host device can also store other information such as a connection table routing table media access control MAC addresses of other device host MAC address host identifier that the host is provided with or learns from other devices such as through a spanning tree protocol. This other information is also referred to herein as other host information .

As discussed above with respect to the programmable processor can obtain PLM information from the storage device associated with the passive optical connector that is inserted into the adapter of the active optical module . The programmable processor is configured to access the storage device through the storage device interface associated with the adapter . The storage device interface is configured to mate and inter operate with the storage device interface used in a passive optical connector of a given physical communication media . Software executing on the programmable processor of the active optical module is able to read the write data from and to the storage device associated with any appropriate passive optical connector that is connected to the adapter using the storage device interface . The software and programmable processor can implement reading and writing to the storage device in the US provisional patent application and US non provisional patent applications cited herein. Accordingly the programmable processor can obtain PLM information from the storage device associated with the passive optical connector when the passive optical connector is inserted into the adapter .

In the example shown in the storage device interface includes four contacts. The programmable processor is coupled to a first contact of the storage device interface over a first trace referred to herein as the input output line . The input output line is used as a communication line e.g. for serial communications for communicating with e.g. reading and writing information from to a storage device coupled to the storage device interface . The input output line is also used to detect the present of a passive optical connector in the adapter . A second contact of the storage device interface is coupled to ground and a third contact of the storage device interface is coupled to a voltage rail VDD . The second and third contacts provide power to the storage device coupled to the storage device interface .

The programmable processor is coupled to a fourth contact of the storage device interface over a fourth trace referred to herein as the reset line . The programmable processor can be externally reset by receiving the appropriate signal on the reset line. For example a diagnostic device can be coupled to the adapter instead of a passive optical connector . The diagnostic device can have an interface corresponding to the storage device interface . The diagnostic device can then send the appropriate signal e.g. a voltage level on the reset line to reset the programmable processor .

Upon reset or power up the programmable processor enters the boot loader mode. In this mode the input output line is operating as the transmit line of a universal serial asynchronous receiver transmitter USART port. The reset line discussed above operates as the receive line for the USART port. In this manner the diagnostic device can after resetting the programmable processor communicate with the programmable processor to for example provide updated firmware to the active optical module without removing the active optical module from the host device .

If no USART signals are received on the reset line the boot loader mode of the programmable processor expires after a period of time. Upon expiration of the boot loader mode the reset line returns from a receive line of the USART port to a line for resetting the programmable processor and the input out line returns from a transmit line of the USART to a line for communicating with a storage device .

The programmable processor is also coupled to a second switch . The second switch is coupled to the third contact of the storage device interface and a resistor is coupled between the second switch and the first contact of the storage device interface . The second switch is a tri state switch and the programmable processor is configured to switch VDD off and on to the input output line by controlling the second switch . More information regarding the second switch is provided with respect to below.

One or more light emitting diodes LEDs can also be included in the active optical module and disposed such that the LEDs are visible when the active optical module is inserted into a host device . The programmable processor can be coupled to the LEDs over one or more traces that are used to drive the LEDs .

The PLM information from the storage device can include a cable identifier as well as attribute information. The PLM information from the storage device can be stored in memory locations of the storage device that are not being used for AOM information. In one implementation of this example the PLM information is stored in a location that in addition to not being currently used for AOM information is unlikely to be written over with AOM information by a host device .

For example the information in a conventional storage device in an active optical module is organized into a plurality of fields. The fields typically include fields that are required by the relevant MSA also referred to here as required fields and fields that are not required by the relevant MSA also referred to here as user defined fields . In one implementation of this example the programmable processor implements a virtual table in the storage device including the fields of such a conventional storage device. The programmable processor uses this virtual table to emulate a conventional storage device during communications with the host device over the inventory interface .

The programmable processor also stores PLM information in one or more of the user defined fields of the virtual table. For example the manufacturer of the physical communication media can define one or more of the user defined fields as including various PLM information. A first user defined field can be defined as including a cable identifier as discussed above and the particular cable identifier for the associated cable is accordingly stored in this first user defined field. In one implementation an extended memory map defined by an MSA e.g. memory map positions is used to write messages and commands to from the active optical module . For example a command may be written in the extended memory map to set the dual color port LED to solid green amber flash slow amber or flash fast green etc. This enables the management system to create and perform work orders in a similar manner to panel work orders. Other commands include for example requesting the programmable processor to invoke software download mode enter normal operation reset module reset port insertion count write a user defined value to storage device request specific inventory information to be written to AOM for example manufacture info enable or disable invalid cable type processing enable or disable the data path for invalid cable types.

In other implementations PLM information is included with AOM information in one or more of the required fields of the virtual table. For example if the AOM information stored in a required field does not use all the memory space allocated to that field the PLM information may be stored in the unused memory space of that field. A required field that is defined for an AOM identifier that is a serial number can be used by encoding or otherwise storing information in that required field in a way that includes both the AOM identifier and the desired PLM information for example a cable identifier or universal code indicating no cable connector connected . Moreover the PLM information can be combined with the AOM information e.g. the AOM identifier in a manner that does not affect the use of the AOM information by the non PLM processes of the host device .

In an example the AOM identifier is stored in a vendor serial number field which is an MSA required field. According to the MSA the vendor serial number field contains ASCII characters and is assigned a total of 16 bytes at locations of the memory map of a storage device in an active optical module. In an implementation of this example the AOM identifier uses only 8 bytes of the 16 bytes allowing the other 8 bytes to be used for PLM information e.g. a cable identifier . As an example the PLM information in these other 8 bytes and therefore is concatenated with the AOM identifier is used to identify one or four states for the adapter of the active optical module . The first state is that nothing is connected to the adapter . The second state is that an unmanaged cable connector is connected to the adapter . The third state is that a managed cable connector is connected to the adapter . The fourth state is than a managed cable connector is connected to the adapter but the managed cable connector is of an invalid type. In the first and a second state respective universal codes that can be stored in the second 8 bytes. That is to indicate that nothing is connected to the adapter a first universal code corresponding to no cable connector connected is stored in the second 8 bytes and to indicate that an unmanaged cable connector is connected to the adapter a second universal code corresponding to an unmanaged cable connected is stored in the second 8 bytes.

In the third state PLM information e.g. a cable identifier cable end identifier obtained from the storage device associated with the passive optical connector connected to the adapter is stored in the second 8 bytes. In an implementation of this example the PLM information for the third state stored in the second 8 bytes addresses to in the memory map are a cable identifier and a sub ID. The cable identifier is a 6 byte big endian globally unique unsigned integer value. Each connector on the same cable contains the same cable identifier value. Therefore endpoint connections of the same cable may be found by matching the cable identifier value. The sub ID contains a value to uniquely identify the cable end. Sub IDs are only unique within a cable assembly. The cable identifiers have no internal structure and can be consider a 6 byte long contiguous unsigned integer value. The sub ID also has no internal structure.

In the fourth state the PLM information e.g. a cable identifier can be stored. In some implementations a third universal code indicating that an invalid cable type is connected can be stored in the second 8 bytes addresses to in the memory map and the cable identifier can be placed in an unused field e.g. in locations of memory . Other examples are also possible. In this example additional PLM information such as fiber category indicating single mode multimode fiber rating indicating OM3 OM4 etc. cable length cable color and manufacturing information regarding the cable connected to the adapter can be stored in the vendor specific area of the memory map of the emulated storage device in the active optical module e.g. memory locations .

In an example the active optical module toggles the module present pin of the host device in response to every change of state i.e. first second third fourth state discussed above . In this way the updated PLM information captured generated by that change of state is captured by the host device and can be aggregated by the aggregation point .

In some implementations PLM information is stored in unallocated memory locations. That is the PLM information is stored in memory locations that are not part of any defined field.

As mentioned above the host device is configured to access the storage device through the inventory interface to obtain the AOM information stored therein. After accessing the storage device the host device can store some or all of the AOM information on a local storage device or memory on the host device . In an implementation of this example the AOM information can be stored in a MIB by an SNMP agent running on the host device . The AOM information stored in the MIB can include the AOM identifier discussed above.

The host device can also obtain the PLM information stored in the virtual table of the storage device . The programmable processor emulates a conventional storage device and includes the PLM information in communications to the host device such that a legacy host device will automatically read the PLM information when it reads the AOM information. That is the PLM information the programmable processor emulates a conventional storage device such that the host device does not need to be updated for example no hardware or software modifications in order to obtain the stored PLM information or the AOM information.

In one implementation of this example the host device can automatically obtain the PLM information based on information for example a header in the virtual table of the storage device which indicates that there is data in one or more user defined fields in the storage device . Upon reading the header and recognizing that there is data in one or more user defined fields the host device can access the locations on the virtual table of the storage device corresponding to the user defined fields to obtain the information therein. In another implementation the host device can be configured to obtain all information in the locations of the virtual table of the storage device dedicated to the user defined fields whether or not the user defined fields are actually used that is whether or not there is information stored in the locations corresponding to the user defined fields . In this way the host device can automatically obtain any PLM information stored in the user defined fields. In yet another implementation the host device can be configured to automatically obtain all information in all memory locations stored in the virtual table of the storage device and can thereby obtain the PLM information whether the PLM information is stored in a user defined field s or an unallocated memory location. In implementations where the PLM information is stored in one or more required fields of the virtual table that is fields required by the relevant MSA the host device can automatically obtain the stored PLM information when the host device obtains the AOM information in the corresponding field.

As mentioned above the PLM information can be provided to the host device in a transparent manner implemented by the programmable processor of the active optical module . The host device can send a command over the inventory interface configured to access the storage device in the active optical module . The programmable processor can retrieve the requested data data requested in the command from the host device from the virtual table of the storage device . In addition the requested data for example AOM information the programmable processor can include PLM information in the response to the command. In one implementation of this example the programmable processor inserts the PLM information into the response in a manner that is transparent to the host device .

For example the aggregation point can send an SNMP write request to the host device instructing the host device to write to the user host writable area e.g. memory locations of the virtual table some requested data bytes. In response to the request the host device sends a write to the AOM module to write the requested data bytes to the requested location. The programmable processor receives the write from the host device and interprets the requested data bytes as a message. The message can be instructions to perform an action such as set an LED value write inventory values to certain memory locations etc. The message can also be a request to retrieve information such as PLM information from storage device . In this way aggregation point is able to communicate with the active optical module .

Since the host device is configured to communicate with a storage device in the active optical module the host device is configured to receive responses that are formatted as described above e.g. according to the MSA defined memory maps . In some examples the host device does not perform any additional formatting other than that defined by the MSA. For example the host device can be configured to access information from a storage device that is formatted in accordance with a relevant MSA into required fields and user defined fields. Other organization structures can also be used. In one implementation of this example the programmable processor can insert the PLM information into a user defined field. In one implementation the programmable processor can provide information for example appropriate header information indicating that one or more of the user defined fields are present in the virtual table. This can prompt the host device to request the one or more user defined fields and the programmable processor can provide the information corresponding to the user define field which can include the PLM information to the host device in response to such a request. Alternatively the programmable processor can provide the PLM information as information stored in unallocated memory locations of the emulated storage device in a similar manner. In another implementation the programmable processor can concatenate encode or otherwise include the PLM information with AOM information corresponding to a required field in the emulated storage device. For example the programmable processor can provide the PLM information with an AOM identifier in a field that is defined for the AOM identifier. The PLM information for example a cable identifier and a cable end identifier or a portion thereof can be concatenated with the AOM identifier and provided to the host device in portions of the field that are not used by the AOM identifier.

In some implementations the programmable processor can be configured to provide different PLM information in response to different commands from the host device . For example the particular PLM information that is provided to the host device can be determined based on the memory location of the virtual table that the host device is attempting to access. This approach is also referred to here as an addressed based scheme . In other implementations the PLM information can be provided based on a timing or sequencing of the commands from the host device . For example the programmable processor can implement a state based process flow in which first PLM information for example a first portion of a cable identifier is provided in response to a first command and second PLM information for example a second or remaining portion of the cable identifier can be provided in response to a second command. This approach is also referred to here as a state based scheme . In some implementations the PLM information can be provided using both an addressed based scheme and a state based scheme. For example in response to a first command attempting to access a first memory address for example corresponding to an AOM identifier first PLM information can be provided and in response to a second command attempting to access a second memory address no PLM information can be provided and in response to a second message attempting to access the first memory address second PLM can be provided. That is in response to a first and second command to access a first memory address the processor can provide first and second PLM information. This state based scheme can be used as a logical communication channel between the aggregation point and the programmable processor with the aggregation point controlling the process flow via messages for example SNMP messages to the host device . The aggregation point and the programmable processor can implement corresponding state based process flows. For example the aggregation point can send a first SNMP request to the host device causing the host device to send a corresponding message to the programmable processor for example attempting to access a first memory address of the virtual table . The programmable processor can respond by providing first PLM information to the host device . The host device can then send the first PLM information to the aggregation point in response to the SNMP request. The aggregation point can send another SNMP request which may be the same as the first SNMP request to the host device again causing the host device to send a corresponding message to the programmable processor . If this second message is received before a timeout of the state of the programmable processor the programmable processor can respond by providing second PLM information to the host device . If no messages are received before a timeout of a corresponding state the programmable processor and aggregation point can return to an initial state. In this manner the programmable processor and the aggregation point could communicate PLM information as desired.

The inventory interface of the active optical module can be implemented over a first one or more contacts in the electrical connector of the active optical module . The active optical module can also include a first switch coupled between a second contact distinct from the first one or more contacts of the electrical connector and ground. The second contact is configured to contact a corresponding contact on the host device . This corresponding contact is referred to as the active optical module present pin AOM present pin because it is used to determine whether there is an active optical module present in the port . For example legacy active optical modules are configured to couple the second contact to ground such that if the active optical module is inserted into a port of the host device the second contact of the electrical connector will contact the AOM present pin of the host device pulling the voltage state of the AOM present pin to a logic zero. The host device can then determine than an active optical module is present in that particular port by identifying that the AOM present pin for that particular port is at a logic zero ground . The first switch can selectively couple the second contact to ground. The programmable processor is coupled to the first switch and configured to control whether the first switch couples the second contact to ground. In an example the programmable processor is configured to set the first switch into one of two states the first state is coupling the second contact to ground and the second state is to provide an open connection i.e. floating for the second contact.

The host device is configured to read information in the virtual table of the storage device in response to detecting insertion of the active optical module . In an example the host device can detect insertion of the active optical module by identifying a change in the voltage state of the AOM present pin from open floating to ground logic 0 . In response to identifying such a change the host device can attempt to read information from the virtual table of the storage device in the active optical module . The host device is configured to read AOM information from the active optical module for authentication of the active optical module or other purposes as discussed above.

Also as discussed above the active optical module is configured to access PLM information from a storage device of a passive optical connector inserted into an adapter of the active optical module . In an example the active optical module is configured to read PLM information from the storage device in response to detection insertion of the passive optical connector into the adapter . The active optical module can then store the PLM information in the virtual table of the storage device as discussed above.

Typically the active optical module will be inserted into a port of the host device before the passive optical connector of a PCM is inserted into the adapter of the active optical module . Accordingly the PLM information from the storage device will not be stored in the virtual table of the storage device of the active optical module at the time in which the host device reads the AOM information from the storage device . Thus the programmable processor of the active optical module will not be able to provide the PLM information from the storage device along with the AOM information with the response to the read request from the host device . The active optical module in particular the programmable processor however is configured to simulate an insertion of itself into the port of the host device by toggling the voltage state on the second contact. To toggle the voltage state the programmable processor can set the switch to an open connection for a period of time and thereafter set the switch to couple the second contact to ground. Upon sensing that the AOM present pin has transitioned from an open state to a ground state the host device will determine that an active optical module has been inserted into the port and attempt to read from the storage device . In response to the read request from the host device the programmable processor can include all or a portion of the PLM information from the storage device in a response to the host device . The PLM information can be included in addition to the AOM information requested by the host device in any of the manners discussed above.

The active optical module can control the timing of the toggles of the voltage state on the second contact in order to cause the host device to read information from the storage device . In particular the active optical module can control the timing such that desired PLM information from the storage device is provided to the host device . For example after any new PLM information is obtained from the storage device e.g. in response to detecting insertion of a passive optical connector the active optical module can toggle the switch and therefore toggle the voltage state of the second contact and AOM present pin to cause the host device to read from the storage device . The programmable processor can then insert the new PLM information in the response to the host device in any of the manners described above. In this way the active optical module can cause the host device to obtain PLM information therefrom. This information can then be accessed by the aggregation point as discussed below. In an example the active optical module is configured to toggle the switch and to provide updated new PLM information to the host device in response to detecting insertion of a passive optical connector into an adapter of the active optical module . Thus PLM information from a storage device in a passive optical connector inserted into the adapter can be passed from the active optical module to the host device and to the aggregation point . In this way the PLM information from a passive optical connector that is newly inserted into an adapter can be captured and aggregated by the aggregation point . Thus when a PCM is disconnected from an adapter and another or the same PCM is reconnected to the adapter the PLM information from the newly connected PCM can be captured and aggregated by the aggregation point . In an example the active optical module is configured to toggle the switch to implement state based communication with the aggregation point as described above.

In an example the active optical module in particular the programmable processor is configured to store PLM information in the storage device indicating that the passive optical connector connected to the adapter does not have a storage device associated therewith. That is the active optical module is configured to store PLM information indicating that the passive optical connector is unmanaged. For example the active optical module can detect that a passive optical connector has been inserted into the adapter and attempt to read from a storage device via the storage interface . If the passive optical connector is unmanaged no storage device will be coupled to the storage device interface and the read operation performed by the programmable processor will return null. The programmable processor will then store PLM information that indicates an unmanaged passive optical connector. The programmable processor can then toggle the first switch and this PLM information can be provided to the host device in any of the manners described above.

In any case PLM information can be provided to the host device by the programmable processor . Advantageously the above implementations may be configured to operate transparently to the host device that is the host device does not need to be updated or otherwise modified to support the communication of such PLM information or to use the modified active optical modules .

The aggregation point shown in is configured to obtain the AOM identifier PLM information and or other AOM information obtained by the host device . In an implementation of this example the aggregation point is configured to obtain the AOM information PLM information and or other host information by sending a SNMP request or other request to the host device for example the SNMP agent running thereon requesting that the host device send the AOM information the PLM information e.g. the entire contents of the MIB and or the other host information to the aggregation point . The host device can be configured to respond to a request from the aggregation point to access a particular field and or a particular memory location in the virtual table of the storage device to obtain the PLM information stored therein. The PLM information for example the cable identifier along with its corresponding port number can therefore be provided from the host device to the aggregation point .

In another implementation instead of interacting directly with the host device the aggregation point interacts with another entity in the system for example a management system that is used to manage the host device that has already obtained such information from the host device either directly or via another source . In such an alternative implementation the aggregation point can be configured to use an API implemented by the other entity to obtain the AOM PLM information from the host device . Typically the other host information includes port numbers or other identifiers for the respective ports in which the various active optical modules corresponding to the AOM information are connected. In an implementation of this example the port number can be obtained by the same or a different request from the aggregation point or using the API behind the software managing the host device as described above.

The aggregation point can be configured to itself discover any changes in the state of the ports at each host device . This can be done by configuring the aggregation point to periodically or as manually instructed obtain the AOM PLM information and its associated port for each host device and to compare the current state of the ports of the host device with a previous state of those ports. Also where each host device includes pre existing functionality for reporting changes in the state of its ports for example using SNMP traps the aggregation point can be configured to use such functionality to detect changes in state of the ports . Typically the aggregation point will be configured to use a combination of such approaches for determining the state of the ports of the host device .

The aggregation point can use the AOM PLM information for example the AOM identifier and or the other information for example the port number to associate the corresponding active optical module with the port to which the active optical module is connected or more generally the other host information . The aggregation point can use the PLM information for example the cable identifier from the storage device in the first end of the PCM which is accessed via the active optical module in particular the programmable processor to associate the port of the host device to which the active optical module is connected with the physical media which is connected to the adapter of the active optical module .

In this example the passive optical connectors on the second end of the PCM is inserted into a port of a patch panel or other passive device. The PLM information e.g. the cable identifier from the storage device associated with the passive optical connector of the second end can be obtained by the aggregation point via the patch panel or other passive device in the manner described above with respect to . Accordingly the aggregation point can associate the passive optical connector of the second end and or the physical communication media with the corresponding port of the patch panel . The aggregation point can then associate the cable identifier and therefore the corresponding physical communication media with a port of the patch panel as described above. In this manner the aggregation point can determine the physical layer connection from a particular port of the patch panel to a particular port of the host device .

Advantageously incorporating a storage device interface in an active optical module and enabling the PLM information from a corresponding storage device to be provided to the aggregation point can enable the physical layer connection to be identified from a given port of a patch panel to a given port of a host device without requiring changes to the host device or the physical communication media . A simple replacement of a legacy pluggable active optical module with the active optical module can provide the physical layer management capability.

In another implementation another active optical module is used at the second end of the physical communication media such that the physical communication media is coupled to two active optical modules one on each end. In this implementation the combination of the active optical modules and the physical communication media can be connected between two host devices and used to provide physical layer management capability for the connection between the two host devices .

For example a first passive optical connector of the physical communication media can be connected to a first active optical module . A second passive optical connector of the physical communication media can be connected to a second active optical module . The first active optical module can be connected via its electrical connector to a port of a first host device . The second active optical module can be connected via its electrical connector to a port of a second host device . The first host device and the second host device can send and receive signals over the combination of active optical modules and the physical communication media . Additionally in the manner described above the aggregation point can obtain PLM information from a first storage device associated with the first passive optical connector of the physical communication media and information on the port of the first host device in which the first active optical module is inserted. The aggregation point can also obtain PLM information from a second storage device associated with the second passive optical connector of the physical communication media and information on the port of the second host device in which the second active optical module is inserted. The aggregation point can aggregate this information to associate the port in which the first active optical module is inserted of the first host device with the port in which the second active optical module is inserted of the second host device and determine the physical layer connection between the ports.

If the active optical module is disconnected from a port of the host device and re connected to a different port of the host device or if the passive optical connector is disconnected from the adapter of the active optical module and a different or the same passive optical connector is reconnected to the adapter the aggregation point will learn of these changes in the state of the ports adapters using the state discovery techniques described above. In response to the state changes the aggregation point can obtain the new AOM information PLM information and or other host information as well as its corresponding port number and associate the two as described above. This association would include de associating the AOM information and or PLM information with the former port number.

The above described acts of the programmable processor are implemented by instructions e.g. firmware stored on a storage device e.g. storage device coupled to the programmable processor . The instructions are configured to be executed by the programmable processor to implement the acts described above. In an example the instructions implement an embedded real time operation system RTOS with preemptive scheduling. The instructions define 4 tasks for the RTOS. These are the AOM task the storage device task the boot loader task and the idle task.

The AOM task is the main task. The AOM task continuously monitors the inventory interface for messages from the host device . The AOM task also emulates a storage device as described above by maintaining the virtual INF 8074i table in the storage device e.g. RAM of the programmable processor . The AOM task response to two addresses from the host device . One address is for the host connection to the AOM transceiver the other address is for the host connection to the emulated storage device. The AOM task also configures and periodically retrieves data from the transceiver monitors for insertion and removal of passive optical connectors to the adapter from the storage device task and toggles the first switch . When a new passive optical connector is inserted into the adapter the AOM task obtains PLM information from storage device task and stores PLM information in the virtual table of the storage device . The AOM task also reads information for user host writable area and interprets as commands messages.

The storage device task is the highest priority task and is normally inactive until a cable insertion or removal event occurs. When such a cable event occurs the storage device task reads the PLM information from a storage device if associated with the passive optical connector notifies the AOM task and returns to inactive. The boot loader task also gives visual indications of the boot loading process via the LEDs for example software download failed. The boot loader task only runs on startup and on external reset of the programmable processor when other tasks are inactive. The idle task runs when no other task is running.

In the example shown the pluggable active optical module is a Small Form factor Pluggable SFP SFP module. For example the pluggable active optical module meets the outside dimensional requirements for a Small Form factor Pluggable Transceiver as defined in MSA SFF 8432 5 or MSA INF 8074i 4 . Each transceiver module includes a housing enclosing a transceiver arrangement and a main circuit board . The transceiver arrangement is configured to convert between optical signals and electrical signals. The optical signals are carried by the optical fibers via the optical connectors and the electrical signals are carried by electrical conductors via the host device . The main circuit board defines a connection e.g. an edge connection configured to connect with circuitry within the host device . In some implementations an EEPROM or other storage device is coupled to the main circuit board .

In some implementations the transceiver housing includes a latch arrangement that mates with a latch arrangement of the host device to releasably secure the transceiver module to the host device . In some implementations the transceiver housing includes a first piece e.g. a base and a second piece e.g. a cover that cooperate to define an interior . In some implementations the pieces are die cast and will therefore act as a passive heat exchanger for the transceiver arrangement. In some implementations the housing pieces facilitate a top down assembly process in which all components are assembled in the first housing piece through an open top of the first housing piece . The second housing piece installs over the open top of the first housing piece .

The housing extends from a first end to a second end . Ports are defined at the first end for receiving optical connectors . One or more ports are defined at the second end for connection to the host device . The transceiver arrangement is disposed within a first portion of the housing located towards the first end . For example the transceiver arrangement can include a receiver that aligns with a first port and a transmitter that aligns with a second port . The main circuit board is disposed within a second portion of the housing located towards the second end .

In some implementations the transceiver arrangement includes a Receiver Optical Subassembly ROSA and a Transmitter Optical Subassembly TOSA . The ROSA includes a detector diode to detect optical signals and a transimpedance amplifier to convert changes in the diode current into voltage. The TOSA includes a source laser to generate optical signals. In certain implementations the ROSA and TOSA include sleeves to align connector ferrules with the diode and laser respectively. In other implementations the transceiver arrangement can include a Bidirectional Optical Subassembly BOSA for converting between optical and electrical signals. The BOSA houses a laser source detector diode and a wave division multiplexing filter.

A retainer is mounted over the transceiver arrangement within the housing. The retainer defines cutout regions to accommodate the ROSA and TOSA . In certain implementations the retainer also defines a slot that will be described in more detail herein. The cover includes a first portion that extends along the first portion of the housing and a second portion that extends along the second portion of the housing. The first cover portion extends over the transceiver arrangement and the second cover portion extends over the main circuit board .

An Electro magnetic Interference EMI shield is disposed around the housing. In the example shown in the shield is disposed around the second portion of the housing. In certain implementations the shield includes a skirt with EMI spring members. In certain implementations the shield is located at a latching area for the transceiver module at the host device .

In accordance with some aspects of the disclosure management circuitry also is disposed within the interior of the transceiver housing. illustrates one example of suitable management circuitry including a management circuit board and a storage device interface attached thereto. The management circuit board defines a first surface facing towards the second housing piece and a second surface facing towards the transceiver arrangement. The second surface of the management circuit board seats on the retainer . In certain implementations the management circuit board extends across at least part of the first housing portion .

The storage device interface is disposed on the second surface of the management circuit board . The storage device interface aligns with one of the transceiver module ports . In certain implementations the management circuitry includes multiple storage device interfaces each aligned with one of the ports . For example the management circuitry can include a first storage device interface disposed at the port aligned with the ROSA and a second storage device interface disposed at the port aligned with the TOSA .

The storage device interface includes a contact arrangement coupled to a base which couples to the management board . The contact arrangement includes one or more contact members extending between first and second ends. The first ends touch contact pads on the management circuit board . The contact members extend away from the management circuit board so that the second ends are spaced from the base . In certain implementations the contact members curve back towards the management circuit board to define contact surfaces .

Each optical connector terminates an optical fiber configured to carry optical signals to and or from the transceiver arrangement. In some implementations each optical connector includes a connector body holding a ferrule holding a distal tip of the optical fiber . In other implementations the optical connector can be a ferrule less connector. The optical connector is configured to releasably attach to the port . For example the optical connector may have a latch arm . In other implementations the connector may have other structure e.g. latch openings etc. . In the example shown the optical connector is an LC connector. In other implementations the optical connector can be an SC connector an LX.5 connector an ST connector and FC connector etc.

In accordance with some aspects of the disclosure at least one of the optical connectors includes a storage device on which information e.g. physical layer information pertaining to the connector and or fiber can be stored. In some implementations the storage device includes an EEPROM or other memory storage chip. In certain implementations the storage device also includes a circuit board having contact pads connected to the memory e.g. to the EEPROM . In the example shown the storage device is disposed at a keying member of the optical connector . In other implementations the storage device can be disposed elsewhere on the optical connector .

As shown in the contact pads of the storage device align with the contact members of the storage device interface when an optical connector is inserted into one of the transceiver module ports . The contact surfaces of the contact members slide over swipe against the contact pads of the storage device when the connector is plugged into the transceiver module . Physical contact between the contact pads and the contact members establishes a connection between the memory of the storage device and the management board .

In certain implementations the contact arrangement includes the same number of contact members as the optical connector storage device includes contact pads . In the example shown the contact arrangement includes four contact members and the storage device includes four contact pads . In other implementations the contact arrangement and or storage device can include a greater or lesser number of contact members and pads .

The transceiver module can include a module processor that contacts the optical connector memory and reads writes to the memory. In certain implementations the module processor can be mounted to the main circuit board . In certain implementations the module processor can be mounted to the management circuit board . In still other implementations the module processor can be otherwise disposed within the housing. The management circuit board is electrically connected to the module processor. In some implementations the management circuit board is connected to the main circuit board . For example a flexible cable can extend between the management board and main circuit board . In another example the main board and management board can be formed from a rigid flex circuit board.

In some implementations the contact arrangement can include a presence sensing member normally open switch that is used to determine whether an optical connector has been received at the port . For example the presence sensing member can be configured to touch swipe a contact pad on the second surface of the management board when an optical connector is inserted at a port . In the example shown the presence sensing member includes an extension on one of the contact members . The contact member flexes so that a contact surface at the distal end of the extension travels towards and away from the contact pad when the contact surface of the contact member rides over a contact pad of the connector storage device . Touching the extension contact surface to the contact pad completes or shorts a circuit that indicates the presence of a connector .

As shown in at least part of the contact member having the extension rides within a slot defined in the retainer . The slot limits the lateral travel of the distal tip to increase reliability of the distal tip touching the contact pad . In some implementations the distal tip travels within the slot . In other implementations the extension travels within the slot with the distal tip protruding through the slot .

An indicator e.g. an LED is mounted to and controlled by the management circuit board see . The indicator can be used to identify the port to a user to identify a status of the port and or to identify whether a correct type of optical connector e.g. mode consistency security clearance or whether a specific connector e.g. having the correct unique identifier has been received at the port . In an example the indicator includes a mono colored LED. In another example the indicator includes a bi colored LED. In another example the indicator includes a tri colored LED. In other implementations other types of indicators e.g. audible indicators can be utilized.

In the example shown the indicator is disposed on the first surface of the management board . The indicator is visible through an opening defined at the first end of the housing. In the example shown in the opening is defined by a notch in the base at the first end and a notch defined in the first portion of the cover . In other implementations either housing piece can fully define the opening.

Further details embodiments and implementations can be found in the following United States patent applications all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 152 624 filed on Feb. 13 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS AND METHODS also referred to here as the 624 application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 497 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled AGGREGATION OF PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION RELATED TO A NETWORK is also referred to here as the 497 application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 501 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled INTER NETWORKING DEVICES FOR USE WITH PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION also referred to here as the 501 application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 506 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled NETWORK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS FOR USE WITH PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION also referred to here as the 506 application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 514 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY DEVICES SYSTEMS AND METHODS also referred to here as the 514 application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 395 filed on Oct. 16 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS AND METHODS THEREOF also referred to here as the 395 application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 253 208 filed on Oct. 20 2009 titled ELECTRICAL PLUG FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS also referred to here as the 208 application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 964 filed on Oct. 19 2009 titled ELECTRICAL PLUG FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS also referred to here as the 964 application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 386 filed on Oct. 16 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN FIBER OPTIC SYSTEMS AND METHODS THEREOF also referred to here as the 386 application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 303 961 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled FIBER PLUGS AND ADAPTERS FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY the 961 application and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 303 948 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled BLADED COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM the 948 application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 964 filed on Oct. 19 2009 titled ELECTRICAL PLUG FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 253 208 filed on Oct. 20 2009 titled ELECTRICAL PLUG FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 907 724 filed on Oct. 19 2010 titled MANAGED ELECTRICAL CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 303 948 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled PANEL INCLUDING BLADE FEATURE FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 413 844 filed on Nov. 15 2010 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 439 693 filed on Feb. 4 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 730 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 737 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 743 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 750 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 303 961 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled Fiber Plug And Adapter For Managed Connectivity U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 413 828 filed on Nov. 15 2010 titled Fiber Plugs And Adapters For Managed Connectivity U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 437 504 filed on Jan. 28 2011 titled Fiber Plugs And Adapters For Managed Connectivity U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 784 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled Managed Fiber Connectivity Systems U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 788 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled Managed Fiber Connectivity Systems U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 797 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled Managed Fiber Connectivity Systems U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 841 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled Managed Fiber Connectivity Systems U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 413 856 filed on Nov. 15 2010 titled CABLE MANAGEMENT IN RACK SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 466 696 filed on Mar. 23 2011 titled CABLE MANAGEMENT IN RACK SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 395 filed on Oct. 16 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 905 689 filed on Oct. 15 2010 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 386 filed on Oct. 16 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN FIBER OPTIC SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 905 658 filed on Oct. 15 2010 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN FIBER OPTIC SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 467 715 filed on Mar. 25 2011 titled DOUBLE BUFFER INSERTION COUNT STORED IN A DEVICE ATTACHED TO A PHYSICAL LAYER MEDIUM U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 467 725 filed on Mar. 25 2011 titled DYNAMICALLY DETECTING A DEFECTIVE CONNECTOR AT A PORT U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 467 729 filed on Mar. 25 2011 titled IDENTIFIER ENCODING SCHEME FOR USE WITH MULTI PATH CONNECTORS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 467 736 filed on Mar. 25 2011 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR UTILIZING VARIABLE LENGTH DATA FIELD STORAGE SCHEMES ON PHYSICAL COMMUNICATION MEDIA SEGMENTS and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 467 743 filed on Mar. 25 2011 titled EVENT MONITORING IN A SYSTEM FOR AUTOMATICALLY OBTAINING AND MANAGING PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION USING A RELIABLE PACKET BASED COMMUNICATION PROTOCOL .

Example 1 includes a pluggable active optical module comprising an electrical connector at a first end for communicating electrical signals one or more optical adapters at a second end for communicating optical signals to from one or more optical fibers a storage device interface at the second end wherein the storage device interface is configured to contact a corresponding storage device interface on the one or more optical fibers a transmitter optical assembly TOSA for converting electrical signals from the electrical connector into optical signals for transmission over the one or more optical fibers a receiver optical assembly ROSA for converting optical signals from the one or more optical fibers to electrical signals for sending from the electrical connector a controller for controlling the TOSA and ROSA a programmable processor coupled to the storage device interface and one or more first contacts of the electrical connector wherein the programmable processor is configured to access a storage device in the one or more optical fibers through the storage device interface and provide physical layer management PLM information obtained therefrom to a host device connected to the electrical connector and a switch coupled between a second contact of the electrical connector and ground the switch coupled to the programmable processor such that that programmable processor can control the switch to selectively connect a second contact of the electrical connector to ground.

Example 2 includes the pluggable active optical module of Example 1 wherein the switch is configured to couple the second contact to ground in a first state and to provide an open connection for the second contact in second state.

Example 3 includes the pluggable active optical module of any of Examples 1 2 wherein the programmable processor is configured to toggle the switch to decouple the second contact from ground and then recouple the second contact to ground in response to receiving or generating updated PLM information regarding the one or more optical adapters.

Example 4 includes the pluggable active optical module of Example 3 wherein the updated PLM information includes information regarding at least one of an insertion of a managed cable an insertion of an unmanaged cable a removal of a managed cable and a removal of an unmanaged cable.

Example 5 includes the pluggable active optical module of Example 3 wherein the updated PLM information includes PLM information read from a storage device coupled to the storage device interface.

Example 6 includes the pluggable active optical module of Example 3 wherein the updated PLM information includes information indicating that one or more optical connectors connected to the one or more optical adapters do not have associated therewith a storage device for coupling with the storage device interface.

Example 7 includes the pluggable active optical module of any of Examples 3 6 wherein the programmable processor is configured to obtain or generate updated PLM information in response to detecting insertion of an optical connector into the one or more optical adapters.

Example 8 includes the pluggable active optical module of any of Examples 3 5 or 7 wherein the updated PLM information includes a cable identifier for a cable having one or more optical connectors connected to the one or more optical adapters wherein the storage device is associated with at least one of the one or more optical connectors.

Example 9 includes the pluggable active optical module of any of Examples 3 5 or 7 8 wherein the updated PLM information includes a cable end identifier identifying which end of a cable is connected to the one or more optical adapters.

Example 10 includes the pluggable active optical module of Example 3 wherein the updated PLM information includes at least one of information indicating an invalid cable or information indicating no cable connected.

Example 11 includes a system comprising a host device having a first port with a first electrical connector a pluggable active optical module connected to the first port of the host device the pluggable active optical module including a second electrical connector at a first end for communicating electrical signals the second electrical connector connected to the first electrical connector of the host device one or more optical adapters at a second end for communicating optical signals a first storage device interface at the second end a programmable processor coupled to the first storage device interface and to one or more first contacts of the second electrical connector and a switch coupled between a second contact of the second electrical connector and ground the switch coupled to the programmable processor such that the programmable processor can control the switch to selectively connect a second contact of the electrical connector to ground wherein the host device is configured to determine whether a pluggable active optical module is connected to the first port based on voltage state of a third contact on the first electrical connector contacting the second contact a fiber optic cable having a first passive optical connector on a first end the first passive optical connector having a first storage device and a second storage device interface associated therewith wherein the first passive optical connector is connected to the one or more optical adapters of the pluggable active optical module and the second storage device interface contacts the first storage device interface and an aggregation point communicatively coupled to the host device wherein the programmable processor is configured to access the first storage device in the fiber optic cable through the first storage device interface and provide physical layer management PLM information obtained therefrom to the host device over the one or more first contacts wherein the host device is configured to send a read message to the pluggable active optical module over the one or more first contacts to obtain AOM information therefrom wherein the programmable processor of the pluggable active optical module is configured to include the PLM information obtained from the first storage device along with the AOM information in a return message over the one or more first contacts in response to the read message from the host device wherein the host device is configured to provide the PLM information to the aggregation point.

Example 12 includes the system of Example 11 wherein the switch is configured to couple the second contact to ground in a first state and to provide an open connection for the second contact in a second state wherein the host device is configured to determine that a pluggable active optical module is connected to a first port when the third contact is at ground voltage and to determine that a pluggable active optical module is not connected to the first port when the third contact has an open connection.

Example 13 includes the system of any of Examples 11 12 wherein the programmable processor is configured to toggle the switch to decouple the second contact from ground and then recouple the second contact to ground in response to receiving or generating updated PLM information regarding the one or more optical adapters wherein the host device is configured to send the read message to the pluggable active optical module to obtain AOM information in response to decoupling the third contact from ground and then recoupling the third contact to ground wherein the programmable processor of the pluggable active optical module is configured to include the updated PLM information along with the AOM information in the return message in response to the read message from the host device.

Example 14 includes the system of Example 13 wherein the updated PLM information includes information regarding at least one of an insertion of a managed cable an insertion of an unmanaged cable a removal of a managed cable and a removal of an unmanaged cable.

Example 15 includes the system of any of Examples 13 14 wherein the programmable processor is configured to obtain or generate the updated PLM information in response to detecting insertion of an optical connector into the one or more optical adapters.

Example 16 includes the system of any of Examples 13 or 15 wherein the updated PLM information includes a cable identifier for the fiber optic cable a cable rating a cable category a cable length a cable color a manufacturer date a manufacturer place a port insertion count a cable end insertion count.

Example 17 includes the system of any of Examples 13 or 15 16 wherein the updated PLM information includes a cable end identifier identifying the first end of the fiber optic cable from a second end of the first optical cable.

Example 18 includes the system of Example 13 wherein the updated PLM information includes at least one of information indicating an invalid cable or a universal code indicating no cable connector connected.

Example 19 includes the system of any of Examples 11 18 wherein the host device is configured to store the AOM information and the PLM information in a MIB block at the host device wherein the aggregation point is configured to obtain the PLM information in the MIB by issuing a SNMP request to the host device.

Example 20 includes the system of any of Examples 11 19 wherein the PLM information is inserted into a portion of the read message that is not used for the AOM information.

Example 21 includes the system of any of Examples 11 20 wherein the programmable processor is configured to conform to the IC interface for messages sent to the host device over the one or more contacts.

Example 22 includes the system of any of Examples 11 or 19 21 wherein the AOM information includes an AOM identifier and the PLM information includes a cable identifier.

Example 23 includes a method for simulating insertion of a pluggable active optical module the method comprising detecting whether a state of an optical adapter of a pluggable active optical module regarding connection of a fiber optic cable has changed obtaining generating PLM information regarding the fiber optic cable in response to detection of change in state of the optical adapter toggling a voltage state of a module present pin of a host device to which the pluggable active optical module is connected in response to obtaining generating the PLM information wherein the host device is configured to determine whether a pluggable active optical module is present based on the voltage state of the module present pin receiving a read command from the host device in response to toggling the switch and providing the PLM information to the host device in response to the read command.

Example 24 includes the method of Example 23 wherein obtaining PLM information includes determining that the first optic cable is unmanaged and generating the PLM information such that the PLM information indicates that the fiber optic cable is unmanaged.

Example 25 includes the method of Example 23 wherein obtaining PLM information includes reading the PLM information from a storage device coupled to a storage device interface associated with the optical adapter of the pluggable active optical module wherein the storage device is associated with the fiber optic cable.

Example 26 includes the method of any of Examples 23 25 wherein toggling a voltage state includes decoupling the module present pin from ground and then recoupling the module present pin to ground.

Example 27 includes the method of Example 26 wherein decoupling the module present pin from ground includes providing an open connection for the module present pin.

Example 28 includes the method of any of Examples 23 27 comprising detecting a toggle in the voltage state of the module present pin at the host device and sending the read command to the pluggable active optical module in response to detecting the toggle.

Example 29 includes the method of any of Examples 23 28 comprising storing the PLM information in a MIB block at the host device issuing a SNMP request for the MIB block from an aggregation point to the host device and receiving the PLM information in the MIB block at the aggregation point in response to the SNMP request.

Example 30 includes the method of any of Examples 23 29 wherein receiving a read command and providing the PLM information include communicating in a manner that conforms to the IC interface.

