---

title: Relevant file identification using automated queries to disparate data storage locations
abstract: Relevant files are determined for a user upon detecting a user action such as save, load, open, view, share, or comparable ones associated with a file. The relevancy may be determined through one or more queries based on, a number of criteria, where the queries are executed on local or remote data stores related to the user. For example, files on the local computing device of the user, files in an enterprise network associated with the user, files on a social network subscribed by the user may be evaluated for various relevancy criteria. Files determined to be relevant may be prioritized, ordered, and/or grouped for suggestion to the user and presented through a user interface of an application performing the detected action.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09141709&OS=09141709&RS=09141709
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09141709
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141120
---
Users often work with many file which may be locally saved or from one or more networks. When working with a variety of applications users need access to files to open a new file to send a file to another user to save a file to share a file and other use scenarios. Users may have to find files they need through manual search. Some approaches provide a list of most recently used files or a list of files from a current or last used location. However in the multi dimensional file storage use and attribute environments of today s computing these approaches may be limited and one dimensional.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to exclusively identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments are directed to relevant file identification using automated queries to disparate data storage locations for actions such as save open load view share or similar ones. The automatic suggestion may include detection of an action on a locally stored file or a remotely stored file associated with a user such as viewing of a library or folder generation of one or more queries to determine files relevant to the user and submittal the one or more queries to one or more local data stores at the computing device and remote data stores. The one or more files determined to be relevant to the user may then be suggested based on results of the submitted one or more queries.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory and do not restrict aspects as claimed.

Content any form of structured data and streaming data that is associated with audio video graphics images and text.

Subscriber an account holder with access to applications and cloud storage at a collaborative service.

Collaborative Service a set of coordinated applications and associated cloud storage hosted by a plurality of servers providing access to the functionality of the applications and collaboration opportunities through web browser or locally installed client application user experiences to a plurality of users. The collaborative service may provide its services to clients or tenants who in turn may allow users or subscribers to access the provided services.

Permission level a security setting that enables a user to control access to the content within a data storage.

Computing device a device comprising at least a memory and a processor that includes a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a smart phone a vehicle mount computer or a wearable computer.

Memory a component of a computing device configured to store one or more instructions to be executed by one or more processors.

A processor a component of a computing device coupled to a memory and configured to execute programs in conjunction with instructions stored by the memory.

Third party service an independent service separate from a system used by the initiating user and the target user another service or an application.

Operating system a system configured to manage hardware and software components of a computing device that provides common services and applications.

Integrated module a component of an application or service that is integrated within the application or service such that the application or service is configured to execute the component.

Application a program that when executed enables a user to communicate create edit and share content.

Computer readable memory device a computer readable storage medium implemented via one or more of a volatile computer memory a non volatile memory a hard drive a flash drive a floppy disk or a compact disk and comparable hardware media that includes instructions thereon to automatically save content to a location.

User experience a visual display associated with an application or service through which a user interacts with the application or service.

User action an interaction between a user and a user experience of an application or a user experience provided by a service that includes one of touch input gesture input voice command eye tracking gyroscopic input pen input mouse input and keyboards input.

Application programming interface API a set of routines protocols and tools for an application or service that enable the application or service to interact or communicate with one or more other applications and services managed by separate entities.

Confidence level a percentage of confidence that candidate files are selected according to selection criteria that correspond to a user s interests.

Productivity service a service to which a user subscribes to access one or more applications that when executed enable a user to communicate view create edit analyze and share content.

Wireless communication a communication medium to facilitate a communication session through a selected communication mode between two or more devices in the absence of a physical connection through an electrically or optically conductive medium.

Wired communication a communication medium to facilitate a communication session through a selected communication mode between two or more devices with a physical connection through an electrically or optically conductive medium.

As briefly described above upon detecting a user action such as save load open view share or comparable ones on a file a file suggestion module or an application may determine other relevant files for the user performing the action. The relevancy may be determined through one or more queries based on a number of criteria where the queries are executed on local or remote data stores related to the user. For example files on the local computing device of the user files in an enterprise network associated with the user files on a social network subscribed by the user may be evaluated for various relevancy criteria. Files determined to be relevant may be prioritized ordered and or grouped for suggestion to the user and presented through a user interface of an application performing the detected action.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustrations specific embodiments or examples. These aspects may be combined other aspects may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

While some embodiments will be described in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with an application program that runs on an operating system on a personal computer those skilled in the art will recognize that aspects may also be implemented in combination with other program modules.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and comparable computing devices. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Some embodiments may be implemented as a computer implemented process method a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product or computer readable media. The computer program product may be a computer storage medium readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program that comprises instructions for causing a computer or computing system to perform example process es . The computer readable storage medium is a computer readable memory device. The computer readable storage medium can for example be implemented via one or more of a volatile computer memory a non volatile memory a hard drive a flash drive a floppy disk or a compact disk and comparable hardware media.

Throughout this specification the term platform may be a combination of software and hardware components for automatic file suggestion. Examples of platforms include but are not limited to a hosted service executed over a plurality of servers an application executed on a highest prioritized computing device and comparable systems. The term server generally refers to a computing device executing one or more software programs typically in a networked environment. However a server may also be implemented as a virtual server software programs executed on one or more computing devices viewed as a server on the network. More detail on these technologies and example operations is provided below.

In one example configuration a computing device such as a laptop computer may have an operating system . A number of applications such as application may be executed within the infrastructure provided by the operating system . The applications may include any application such as word processing applications spreadsheet applications presentations applications communication applications imaging applications audio video processing applications graphic processing applications and comparable ones. Application may process files as part of its operation such as open save load modify. Application may also enable the user to view edit share or perform other actions on the files. The files processed by the application may be stored locally on the computing device such as in local storage . Application may also process files stored remotely such as cloud storage which may be accessible over one or more networks or clouds such as network .

In some embodiments a file suggestion module operating within the operating system may detect an action associated with a locally stored file or a remotely stored file being processed by the application and coordinate with one or more local search engines generation of one or more queries to determine files relevant to the user . The queries may be based on criteria such as whether a user initiating the action is an author of a file whether the user has edited the file whether the file is shared with the user whether the user opened the file in the past whether the file was presented at a meeting that the user attended whether the file was emailed to the user whether the user submitted a post to a social network or a professional network associated with the file whether the user commented on the file and or whether the user joined a group or team site on which the file is listed. The criteria listed above are not an exhaustive list and are intended to provide illustrative examples.

In other embodiments file suggestion module may coordinate the generation and submission of the queries with remote search engines such as cloud search engines over the network . The search engines may execute the queries on the local storage and or cloud storage . The files from the local storage and or cloud storage may be prioritized ordered and or grouped for presentation based on the criteria used for the queries a chronological recency of the one or more criteria and similar factors. The prioritized ordered and or grouped files may then be presented to the user through a user experience of the application or a generic user experience managed by the file suggestion module . In one example application may allow the user to view a library or a directory of files associated with himself or herself. The library or directory of files may include document folders on the computing device on a different online file library website or a remote file share library. The suggested files may be presented separately or along with the files and folders of the viewed library or directory.

In further embodiments summary information associated with each file may be displayed along with a representation of each file. The summary information may include one or more of a name of the file an owner of the file a storage location of the file one or more images associated with the file a type of the file and a modification date of the file. The summary information may also include a reason for selection of the file to be suggested to the user to give confidence to the user about the selection of the suggested file. The suggested files may be displayed for example in grid or list format. The suggested files may also be displayed along with regular files in a folder or directory of the user distinguished through one or more of a textual scheme graphical scheme color scheme shading scheme or similar scheme. The additional summary information may also distinguish the suggested files from the regular files.

The computing device may include a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a vehicle mount computer a smart phone or a wearable computing device. The user may be enabled to interact with the user experience and select among the suggested files through one or more of touch input gesture input voice command eye tracking gyroscopic input pen input mouse input and or keyboard input.

The components in diagram such as cloud search engines cloud storage network operating system application file suggestion module local storage and local search engines may be similarly structured and function similar to their counterparts in . The computing device is illustrated as a smart phone in . Differently from the file suggestion module in diagram may be an integrated part of the application and thus work within the application enabling presentation of suggested files to user .

The components in diagram such as cloud search engines cloud storage network operating system file suggestion module local storage and local search engines may be similarly structured and function similar to their counterparts in or . The computing device is illustrated as a laptop computer in . Differently from a coordinated application set may provide functionalities of a variety of applications applications to the user under one umbrella. The file suggestion module in diagram may be an integrated part of the coordinated application set and provide file suggestion services to the applications within the coordinated application set . For example the coordinated application set may be a productivity suite and include applications such as word processing applications spreadsheet applications presentation applications communication applications calendaring applications and note taking applications.

The components in diagram such as cloud search engines cloud storage network operating system application local storage and local search engines may be similarly structured and function similar to their counterparts in . The computing device is illustrated as a client device connected to a server in . Differently from or the system in diagram includes a file suggestion service which may be accessed by multiple applications executed on multiple devices via network and enable presentation of suggested files to user . For example file suggestion service may be a third party hosted service that can be accessed through standardized application programming interfaces APIs by any application that is compatible with it.

In some embodiments a confidence level in the determination and or prioritization of the relevant files may be determined based on the criteria used how strongly a file meets the criteria or how many criteria the file meets . The suggested files may then be selected among those that have a confidence level above a predefined threshold.

The example user experience in is associated with an application . As mentioned above suggested files may also be presented through a generic user experience managed by the file suggestion module or the operating system for different applications. The user experience may include one or more command menus and present suggested files and in a number of textual and or graphical formats. In the example illustration each file is represented by a file name a type of file a location of the file an owner or author of the file and an indication of when the file was last edited . The representation may also include an icon a graphic or one or more images associated with the file. The graphic representation may be an icon of the file type or thumbnail images from the file e.g. selected images from a video file .

In some embodiments graphic color or shading schemes may be employed to indicate further information associated with the files for example a file type a priority of the files whether a file is currently being processed by someone else whether the file has been recently used or similar information. The indications may include shading as in file or a graphic for example.

User experience is an example of a generic file user interface managed by the file suggestion module or the operating system or a file management system within the operating system . In section of the user experience available storage containers such as local file directories networked file directories shared files etc. may be listed as links to provide those containers contents. In section suggested files may be presented as discussed above in conjunction with . In addition to the suggested files the user interface may present files in a selected container e.g. My Documents in a traditional manner in section .

For example the files in the selected container may be displayed in a list format with icons representing each file type file names last modification dates sharing information and last modified by information . The user experiences in are for illustration purposes only and any user experience with any configuration may be used to present suggested files with various presentation schemes.

The examples in have been described using specific network environments systems services applications and processes to automatically suggest files. Embodiments to automatically suggest files are not limited to the specific network environments systems services applications and processes according to these examples.

Relevant file identification using automated queries to disparate data storage locations as described in the embodiments above may help reduce processor load by enabling faster selection of files as opposed to manual selection which may involve multiple operations for each file to be selected. Network bandwidth usage may also be reduced through prevention of individual manual file search operations. User efficiency may be improved by allowing users to see relevant files without having to remember or think about where to search. Through the summary information presented with the suggested files users interaction performance may be increased allowing users to select relevant files rapidly.

For example computing device may be used as a server desktop computer portable computer smart phone special purpose computer or similar device. In an example basic configuration the computing device may include one or more processors and a system memory . A memory bus may be used for communicating between the processor and the system memory . The basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within the inner dashed line.

Depending on the desired configuration the processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. The processor may include one more levels of caching such as a level cache memory one or more processor cores and registers . The example processor cores may each include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. An example memory controller may also be used with the processor or in some implementations the memory controller may be an internal part of the processor .

Depending on the desired configuration the system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. The system memory may include an operating system an application and program data . The application may include a file suggestion module and a search engine which may be integrated modules of the application or independent modules. The file suggestion module and the search engine may perform tasks associated with detection of user actions generation of queries and determination of relevant files for suggestion to the user as described herein. The program data may include among other data process data related to relevancy criteria and relevant files as described herein.

The computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and any desired devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . The data storage devices may be one or more removable storage devices one or more non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of the removable storage and the non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDDs optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

The system memory the removable storage devices and the non removable storage devices are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVDs solid state drives or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by the computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of the computing device .

The computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices for example one or more output devices one or more peripheral interfaces and one or more communication devices to the basic configuration via the bus interface controller . Some of the example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . One or more example peripheral interfaces may include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices for example keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices for example printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . An example communication device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication link via one or more communication ports . The one or more other computing devices may include servers client devices and comparable devices.

The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media.

The computing device may be implemented as a part of a general purpose or specialized server mainframe or similar computer that includes any of the above functions. The computing device may also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations.

Example embodiments may also include methods to automatically suggest files. These methods can be implemented in any number of ways including the structures described herein. One such way may be by machine operations of devices of the type described in the present disclosure. Another optional way may be for one or more of the individual operations of the methods to be performed in conjunction with one or more human operators performing some of the operations while other operations may be performed by machines. These human operators need not be collocated with each other but each can be only with a machine that performs a portion of the program. In other embodiments the human interaction can be automated such as by pre selected criteria that may be machine automated.

Process begins with operation where an action associated with a file is detected. The action may include a save action a view action a comment action an open action a share action or similar actions. For example the view action may include a user viewing a library or a directory of files associated with themselves and optionally indicating interest in a file by hovering over it or selecting it. Other example actions may involve a selected file more directly.

At operation one or more queries may be generated to determine relevance of other files to the user who is performing the action. The queries may be based on criteria such as whether the user initiating the action is an author of a file whether the user has edited the file whether the file is shared with the user whether the user opened the file in the past whether the file was presented at a meeting that the user attended whether the file was mailed to the user whether the user submitted a post to a social network or a professional network associated with the file whether the user commented on the file and or whether the user joined a group or team site on which the file is listed.

At operation the queries may be submitted to local or remote data stores to be executed on files at those data stores. The data stores may include the user s file directories the user s cloud directories networked data stores public data stores to name a few.

At optional operation relevant files determined based on the results of the submitted queries may be prioritized ordered for display and or grouped for display based on the query results and the used criteria. At operation the prioritized ordered and or grouped relevant files may be suggested through a user experience with or without the user s own files in a selected directory. In some embodiments other operations may occur between querying a search provider and displaying the results. For example upon receiving the search results a query may be submitted for related information about the resultant files such as appropriate file type icons.

The operations included in process are for illustration purposes Relevant file identification using automated queries to disparate data storage locations may be implemented by similar processes with fewer or additional steps as well as in different order of operations using the principles described herein.

In some examples a computing device to automatically suggest one or more files is described. The computing device may include a display device a memory configured to store instructions and a processor coupled to the display device and the memory. The processor may be configured to detect an action on one of a locally stored file or a remotely stored file associated with a user generate one or more queries to determine files relevant to the user submit the one or more queries to one or more local data stores at the computing device and remote data stores and automatically suggest through the display device the one or more files determined to be relevant to the user based on results of the submitted one or more queries.

In other examples the one or more queries may be generated based on one or more criteria including but not limited to whether the user initiating the action is an author of a file whether the user has edited the file whether the file is shared with the user whether the user opened the file in the past whether the file was presented at a meeting that the user attended whether the file was emailed to the user whether the user submitted a post to one of a social network or a professional network associated with the file whether the user commented on the file and whether the user joined a group or team site on which the file is listed. The processor may also determine the one or more files to be relevant to the user based on a chronological recency of the one or more criteria.

In further examples the processor may be further configured to prioritize the one or more files determined to be relevant to the user based on the results of the one or more queries and a chronological recency of the one or more criteria order and group the one or more files determined to be relevant to the user based on the results of the one or more queries and a chronological recency of the one or more criteria and or display the ordered and grouped one or more files determined to be relevant to the user along with summary information associated with each file. The summary information may include one or more of a name of the file an owner of the file a storage location of the file one or more images associated with the file a type of the file and a modification date of the file. The summary information may also include a reason for selection of the file to be suggested to the user.

In yet other examples the one or more queries may be generated and submitted by one or more search engines independent from a file suggestion module configured to automatically suggest the one or more files. At least one of the one or more search engines may be local and at least another of the one or more search engines may be a remote search engine. The processor may also be configured to determine a confidence level for each of a plurality of candidate files based on the results of the submitted one or more queries and select the one or more files to be suggested in response to a determination that the confidence level is above a predefined threshold. The action on one of the locally stored file or the remotely stored file may include one of an open action a save action a share action a comment action or a view action.

In other examples a system to automatically suggest one or more files is described. The system may include a first computing device configured to provide access to an application a second computing device configured to manage storage of a plurality of files and a third computing device communicatively coupled to the first computing device and the second computing device. The third computing device may be configured to execute a file suggestion module which may detect an action on one of a locally stored file or a remotely stored file associated with a user generate one or more queries based on one or more criteria to determine files relevant to the user submit the one or more queries to one or more local data stores at the computing device and remote data stores and automatically suggest through the display device the one or more files determined to be relevant to the user based on results of the submitted one or more queries and present summary information for each of the one or more files the summary information comprising one or more of a name of the file an owner of the file a storage location of the file one or more images associated with the file a type of the file and a modification date of the file.

In further examples the file suggestion module may be an integrated part of the application an integrated part of a coordinated set of applications including the application a part of an operating system of the third computing device providing file suggestion services to applications within the operating system or a part of a third party service accessible by a plurality of computing devices over one or more networks. The one or more queries may be generated by one or more of a search engine at the third computing device a search engine at the second computing device and a search engine at a fourth computing device accessible over one or more networks.

In yet other examples a method to automatically suggest one or more files is described. The method may include detecting one of an open action a save action a share action a comment action or a view action on one of a locally stored file or a remotely stored file associated with a user generating one or more queries based on one or more criteria to determine files relevant to the user submitting the one or more queries to one or more local data stores at the computing device and remote data stores determining the one or more files to be relevant to the user based on results of the submitted one or more queries one or more of prioritizing ordering and grouping the one or more files based on the results of the one or more queries and a chronological recency of the one or more criteria and automatically suggesting the one or more files.

In yet further examples automatically suggesting the one or more files may include automatically suggesting through a display device the one or more files determined to be relevant to the user along with a plurality of files in a selected file directory associated with the user. The method may also include displaying the suggested one or more files in one of a list or a grid form on one of a user experience of an application processing the file or on a separate user experience.

In some examples a means to automatically suggest one or more files is described. The means to automatically suggest one or more files may include a means for detecting one of an open action a save action a share action a comment action or a view action on one of a locally stored file or a remotely stored file associated with a user a means for generating one or more queries based on one or more criteria to determine files relevant to the user a means for submitting the one or more queries to one or more local data stores at the computing device and remote data stores a means for determining the one or more files to be relevant to the user based on results of the submitted one or more queries a means for one or more of prioritizing ordering and grouping the one or more files based on the results of the one or more queries and a chronological recency of the one or more criteria and a means for automatically suggesting the one or more files.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the embodiments. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims and embodiments.

