---

title: Automatic window placement
abstract: A method for rendering data on a display device is described. Data representative of graphics objects rendered on the display device is received. The data is analyzed to identify white space areas. The white space areas are compared to a display area to be rendered on the display device. The white space areas are areas that are substantially free of displayed objects according to a criterion. Based on the comparison, one or more of the white space areas are identified for rendering the display area. The display area is automatically rendered in the identified white space areas on the display device without user intervention. When the white space areas are insufficient to render the display area, the display area may be automatically rendered based on one or more criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09373184&OS=09373184&RS=09373184
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 09373184
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140303
---
Transportation crew and staff typically use management information tools to perform various tasks and operations. For example for an air traffic scenario an airport controller may use the Advanced Surface Movement and Guidance Control System A SMGCS . The A SMGCS may provide a user display that includes an airport layout with airport traffic information. The A SMGCS may provide multiple information sources during various operational scenarios. Other transportation operations such as passenger train and cruise ship operations also use other types of management information tools.

Illustrative examples of the present disclosure include without limitation a method computing device and computer readable storage medium. In one aspect a method for rendering data on a display device is described. Data representative of graphics objects rendered on the display device is received. The data is analyzed to identify white space areas. The white space areas are compared to a display area to be rendered on the display device. The white space areas are areas that are substantially free of displayed objects according to a criterion. Based on the comparison one or more of the white space areas are identified for rendering the display area. The display area is automatically rendered in the identified white space areas on the display device without user intervention. When the white space areas are insufficient to render the display area the display area may be automatically rendered based on one or more criteria.

In another aspect a computing device configured to cause rendering of data on a display device is provided. The device may include a processor and memory. Areas on the display device where graphics objects are rendered are determined. White space areas based on the determined areas are identified and one or more of the white space areas are determined for rendering an additional graphics object. The additional graphics object is automatically rendered in the determined white space area on the display device without user intervention. When the white space areas are insufficient to render the additional graphics object the additional graphics object may be automatically rendered based on one or more criteria.

In another aspect a computer readable storage medium is provided. A user screen rendered on a display device is analyzed to identify white space areas. One or more of the white space areas are determined for rendering a graphics object. The graphics object is automatically rendered in the determined white space areas. When the white space areas are insufficient to render the graphics object the graphics object may be automatically rendered based on one or more criteria.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed can be achieved independently in various embodiments or may be combined in yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings.

The A SMGCS may provide and render multiple information sources during various operational scenarios such as an airport layout with own ship positions of aircraft. In some cases important and timely information may be provided on the screen for example by using pop up windows to provide alerts. If a pop up window is rendered over an area that the controller is viewing then the controller may have to move the pop up windows manually to unused areas or other white space areas of the display so as not to impede viewing of important information. The placement of pop up windows and other user display artifacts on the display may lead to problems that may impact operational efficiency and effectiveness especially during time critical operations such as aircraft taxiing operations or runway incursions. Problems encountered in these scenarios may include delays in identifying potential problems and missed communications to name a few. Although such pop up windows can be manually placed in unused screen areas such pop up windows may continue to be generated during certain scenarios causing continued interruptions to the controller s operations.

The present disclosure describes methods and systems for the automatic placement of pop up windows to whitespace areas on a map screen while minimizing or avoiding overlap with important areas of the map screen thus avoiding the need to manually move the windows from an initial placement on the map screen to a white space area. In various implementations an algorithm may be provided for automatically detecting the whitespace area based on the display contents e.g. airport map for placement of windows and other display artifacts.

The various examples used in this disclosure are described in the context of a commercial airline flight operation but it should be understood that the described principles may be applied to any scenario where automatic placement of display artifacts may be provided. Such examples in the field of transportation include airline train and cruise ship operations. Other examples include scenarios such as computer games and other computer applications mobile phone notifications head up display or augmented reality devices. In general the described principles are applicable to any display where it is desirable to avoid overlaying objects of higher importance with notifications of lower importance.

The Advanced Surface Movement Guidance Control System A SMGCS is a system providing routing guidance and surveillance for the control of aircraft and vehicles to maintain a declared surface movement rate. The A SMGCS is used to safely and efficiently manage the aircraft and vehicles in an aerodrome a location from which aircraft flight operations take place with respect to traffic density and aerodrome layout taking into account the demanded capacity under various visibility conditions.

A user of the A SMGCS can be provided a user interface such as the one shown in . depicts a user interface to a user in a window of a browser or other client application executing on a computer system. illustrates the manual placement of windows and from the airport map area to white space areas by manual interaction.

In at least some implementations of this disclosure an algorithm may be provided to determine pop window placement on a display. depicts an example operational procedure for automatic window placement including operations and . The illustrated operations are provided as examples and do not imply a particular order and such an algorithm may include one or more of the described operations.

Referring to operation begins the operational procedure and operation illustrates determining the screen size and the local coordinate system. The current size of the user display may be obtained from the operating system the graphics rendering system an application programming interface API or other sources. Additionally the local coordinate system that is associated with currently displayed information may be obtained from the same source or different sources.

Operation may be followed by operation . Operation illustrates determining covered areas or rendered areas on the user screen by determining locations of known objects. A database or listing of rendered objects may be used to determine objects that are currently rendered on the user screens. In some implementations a geographic information system GIS database may be used to identify rendered objects. More generally any system that provides spatial and visualization data may be used. For example polygon objects e.g. runways taxiways aprons etc. from the Airport Mapping Database AMDB may be matched to geographic coordinates to determine geographic placement of rendered objects. The AMDB may include objects described as points lines and polygons to represent a view such as the spatial layout of an airport and the geometry of features such as runways taxiways and buildings.

Operation may be followed by operation . Operation illustrates translating geographical coordinates to local coordinates. The position of the known objects may be expressed in the local coordinate system using for example a matrix transformation.

Operation may be followed by operation . Operation illustrates using spatial operations or analysis such as surface subtraction to determine the white space areas. A spatial operation may be any function that takes inputs based on a first model or coordinate system and analyzes and assimilates the inputs to perform some transformation or other operation to a second model or coordinate system. White space on a display may be any portion of a display or screen that is left unrendered or unmarked. An area of white space on a screen may not be completely unmarked but can be substantially free from visual artifacts according to one or more criteria such as the maximum number of marked pixels per predefined area.

Operation may be followed by operation . Operation illustrates determining the window dimensions based on the content for rendering on the display. The dimensions of the content such as a pop up window may be indicated by size such as 3.5 inches by 2.5 inches pixels such as 100 125 pixels or any other units for identifying the size for the object to be rendered.

Operation may be followed by operation . Operation illustrates comparing window dimensions with white space dimensions. The dimensions of the window that is to be rendered may be compared to the dimensions of the white space areas. Operation may be followed by operation . Operation illustrates determining if the window fits within the white space dimensions.

If the window fits within the white space dimensions then operation may be followed by operation . Operation illustrates placing the window where the dimensions fit. The windows may be placed where white space areas have been identified as being of sufficient size to accommodate the window. In some cases the window may exceed the size of an identified white space within a predetermined tolerance. For example it may be acceptable to obscure an outside edge of a rendered display object without interfering with the operator s view of the overall displayed information.

If no windows fit any of the white space dimensions then operation may be followed by operation . Operation illustrates determining if the window size can be reduced or resized to fit the white space dimensions. In many cases a resizing of the window may allow the window to fit into an identified white space area. Further analysis may be performed to determine if any restrictions are in place that bound the amount of resizing that can be allowed. For example a minimum font size for text inside the pop up window may restrict how much the size of the pop up window can be reduced.

If the window size can be reduced or resized to fit the white space dimensions then operation may be followed by operation which illustrates resizing the window. Operation may then be followed by operation to compare the resized window with the white space dimensions.

If the window size cannot be reduced or resized to fit the white space dimensions then operation may be followed by operation which illustrates determining priorities for the covered or rendered areas. Determining priorities may include accessing data that indicates the relative importance between the currently rendered areas on the display. Some rendered areas may be of high importance and may be marked as an area that cannot be obscured with a pop up window. Other areas may allow pop up windows but such areas may be ordered by priority based on the relative importance of the areas. This information may be included with metadata associated with each area or may be defined in an accessible file or any other means for providing priority information. Operation may then be followed by operation which illustrates placing the window over an area where a pop up window is allowed.

The windows may be rendered automatically on the user display. For example the pop up windows may be placed in the identified white space areas without further interaction or input from the user thus avoiding the need for the user to move the windows or otherwise be interrupted for current user tasks. Because of the automatic placement the controller or user need not respond to alerts and actions that may be deemed to be unimportant at the current time and move windows and other visual artifacts on the display.

It should be noted that other methods for identifying white space areas may be used. For example image data for the currently rendered user frame may be analyzed to determine user interface elements and borders between image data and text data. In some implementations the current frame may be divided into areas to separate image and text content. In one example it can be assumed that the text areas should not be covered by a pop up window and the image areas can then be analyzed to identify white space areas. The image areas can be analyzed to identify edges and an edge map can be generated. The edge map may be analyzed to identify displayed elements and white space areas. In one implementation the edge map may be divided into rectangular white space areas of various sizes using the horizontal and vertical edges of the edge map. The sizes of the various white space rectangles can be compared to pop up windows that are to be rendered to identify appropriate areas for the windows. By using the above described procedure a grid of possible window locations may be determined that is aligned to the current display while avoiding obscuring areas that are being used for providing user information.

Processor includes any suitable programmable circuit including one or more systems and microcontrollers microprocessors reduced instruction set circuits RISC application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic circuits PLC field programmable gate arrays FPGA and any other circuit capable of executing the functions described herein. The above example examples are not intended to limit in any way the definition and or meaning of the term processor. 

Memory device includes a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as without limitation random access memory RAM flash memory a hard disk drive a solid state drive a diskette a Flash drive a compact disc a digital video disc and or any suitable memory. In the exemplary implementation memory device includes data and or instructions embodying aspects of the disclosure that are executable by processor e.g. processor may be programmed by the instructions to enable processor to perform the functions described herein. Additionally the memory device may comprise an operation system and applications.

Wireless transmitters are configured to transmit control signals and data signals over a network. In one example wireless transmitters may transmit in a radio frequency spectrum and operate using an appropriate communication protocol.

Wireless receivers are configured to receive control signals and data signals over network. In one example wireless receivers may receive signals on a radio frequency spectrum using an appropriate communication pro.

The node may also include at least one output component for presenting information to a user . Output component may be any component capable of conveying information to user . In some implementations output component includes an output adapter such as a video adapter and or an audio adapter or the like. An output adapter is operatively coupled to processor and is configured to be operatively coupled to an output device such as a display device e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD organic light emitting diode OLED display cathode ray tube CRT electronic ink display or the like or an audio output device e.g. a speaker headphones or the like . In some implementations at least one such display device and or audio device is included with output component .

The node may also include at least one input component for receiving input from user . Input component may include for example a keyboard a pointing device a mouse a stylus a touch sensitive panel e.g. a touch pad or a touch screen a gyroscope an accelerometer a position detector an audio input device or the like. A single component such as a touch screen may function as both an output device of output component and input component . In some implementations output component and or input component include an adapter for communicating data and or instructions between the node and a computer connected thereto.

As discussed above at least a part of the communications in the shared collaboration and communication space may be recorded for later retrieval and consumption or analysis. In some examples the communications may be recorded and stored on the user device. In other examples the communications may be stored on a server. For example the shared collaboration and communication space may be implemented and facilitated by a service running remotely.

It will be appreciated that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them may be transferred between memory and other storage devices. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software modules and or systems may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computing systems via inter computer communication. In some embodiments some or all of the systems and or modules may be implemented or provided in other ways such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers e.g. by executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers field programmable gate arrays FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs etc. Some or all of the modules systems and data structures may also be stored e.g. as software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk a memory a network or a portable media article to be read by an appropriate drive or via an appropriate connection. The systems modules and data structures may also be transmitted as generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave or other analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission media including wireless based and wired cable based media and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly the present invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

In some embodiments a system memory may be used which is one embodiment of a computer readable storage medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above for for implementing embodiments of the corresponding methods and apparatus. However in other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media. Generally speaking a computer readable storage medium may include non transitory and tangible storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD coupled to a computer system or gateway device. A computer readable storage medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. that may be included in some embodiments of the computer systems described above as system memory gateway device or another type of memory. Portions or all of the multiple computer systems such as those illustrated herein may be used to implement the described functionality in various embodiments for example software components running on a variety of different devices and servers may collaborate to provide the functionality.

It will be appreciated that in some embodiments the functionality provided by the routines discussed above may be provided in alternative ways such as being split among more routines or consolidated into fewer routines. Similarly in some embodiments illustrated routines may provide more or less functionality than is described such as when other illustrated routines instead lack or include such functionality respectively or when the amount of functionality that is provided is altered. In addition while various operations may be illustrated as being performed in a particular manner e.g. in serial or in parallel and or in a particular order in other embodiments the operations may be performed in other orders and in other manners. Similarly the data structures discussed above may be structured in different ways in other embodiments such as by having a single data structure split into multiple data structures or by having multiple data structures consolidated into a single data structure and may store more or less information than is described e.g. when other illustrated data structures instead lack or include such information respectively or when the amount or types of information that is stored is altered .

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain examples include while other examples do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more examples or that one or more examples necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular example. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

In general the various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in different ways. All possible combinations and subcombinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain method or process blocks may be omitted in some implementations. The methods and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described blocks or states may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple blocks or states may be combined in a single block or state. The example blocks or states may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Blocks or states may be added to or removed from the disclosed example examples. The example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed example examples.

While certain example or illustrative examples have been described these examples have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the inventions disclosed herein. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of certain of the inventions disclosed herein.

