---

title: Countermeasures for threats to an uncrewed autonomous vehicle
abstract: Uncrewed autonomous vehicles (“UAVs”) may navigate from one location to another location. Described herein are systems, devices, and methods providing countermeasures for threats that may compromise the UAVs. A plurality of UAVs may establish a mesh network to distribute information to one another. A first UAV may receive external data from a second UAV using the mesh network. The external data may be used to confirm or cross-check data such as location, heading, altitude, and so forth. Disagreement between data generated by the first UAV with external data from the second UAV may result in the determination that the first UAV is compromised. Remedial actions may be taken, such as the first UAV may be directed to a safe location to land or park, may receive commands from another UAV, and so forth.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09524648&OS=09524648&RS=09524648
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09524648
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141117
---
Uncrewed autonomous vehicles UAVs may navigate from one location to another location. During navigation the UAVs may be vulnerable to various threats. For example an adversarial person may interfere with the wireless communications of a UAV using a wireless signal jammer. These threats may cause a variety of adverse effects including the UAV crashing.

Certain implementations and embodiments will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying figures in which various aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

This disclosure relates to systems devices and methods providing countermeasures for threats that may compromise an uncrewed autonomous vehicle UAV . The UAV may comprise a mobile machine configured to operate in one or more autonomous or semi autonomous modes. In a fully autonomous mode the UAV may be configured to manage route selection navigation piloting and so forth without human intervention. In a semi autonomous mode some human intervention may be utilized. For example in a semi autonomous mode a human operator may designate or approve a particular navigational route. The UAV may include an uncrewed ground vehicle an uncrewed aerial vehicle a drone a remotely piloted aircraft and so forth.

The UAV may be exposed to various threats that may compromise the UAV. A compromise takes place when operation of the UAV is tampered with impaired and so forth. For example the UAV may be configured to transport packages from a distribution center to a residential home business and so forth. While the UAV navigates proximate to a destination computing device the UAV may wirelessly communicate with one or more computing devices including the destination computing device. For example authentication information may be transmitting between the UAV and the destination computing device. During navigation an adversarial person or other adversarial entity may attempt to disrupt communications between the UAV and the destination computing device by using a computing device such as a wireless signal jammer. In another example the adversarial person may use a weapon to inflict damage to the UAV. In yet another example other signal sources may accidently cause interference between the data transfer between the UAV and the destination computing device. These threats may cause a variety of adverse effects including the UAV being redirected to an unintended location destruction of the UAV and so forth.

The UAV may perform a variety of operations. For example the operation of the UAV may include navigating to a particular location. In another example the operation of an aerial UAV may include providing a sufficient amount of energy to rotors to sustain flight. In yet another example the operation of the UAV may include establishing a communication link with a particular computing device.

The UAV may include one or more systems. For example the UAV may include a navigation system that directs the UAV from a first location to a second location. The UAV may include different navigation systems that determine the location of the UAV. In another example the UAV may include a UAV wireless communication interface that is configured to establish a communication link with a computing device. The one or more systems of the UAV may be characterized or their operation described by way of one or more parameters.

Operation of the UAV may be compromised due to component failure software failure or external input such as from malicious actions or benign actions on the part of another. The UAV may determine operation is compromised when the UAV determines that one or more of the parameters are above a threshold value or other out of bound conditions occur. For example the UAV may determine operation is compromised when indicated speed exceeds a maximum speed or processor usage exceeds a maximum value.

In one example the UAV may include a first system and a second system. The UAV may access a first parameter associated with the first system and the UAV may access a second parameter associated with the second system. The UAV may compare the first parameter with the second parameter. The UAV may determine an operation of the UAV is compromised when the first parameter is different from the second parameter by a threshold value. In another example the UAV may use the first parameter to form a third parameter and the UAV may determine operation of the UAV is compromised when the second parameter is different from the third parameter by a threshold value.

A plurality of UAVs may communicate with one another. The communication may comprise a mesh network in which each UAV that participates may send receive or relay data such that data is distributed to designated recipient s . In other implementations other network topologies may be used such as ring networks star networks tree networks and so forth.

The location data discussed herein may be specified in terms of latitude longitude altitude grid square street address position relative to navigational beacons or landmarks and so forth. For example the location of the UAV may be specified as 48.918 North 119.446 West altitude of 310 meters 816 Juniper Street radial 297 distance 15.4 kilometers from CWK VORTAC Maidenhead Grid Square DN08gw and so forth. In some implementations the location data may include other information as well such as heading speed and so forth.

The UAV may determine a compromise based on external data received from another UAV. For example a first UAV may send a request to other UAVs via the mesh network asking for confirmation of location data. The other UAVs may report their own location or may determine the location of the first UAV and provide that information back to the first UAV.

In another example other UAVs may observe behavior of the first UAV that is unexpected or beyond a threshold value. The other UAVs may then send external data to the first UAV indicating a potential compromise. Continuing the example a second UAV may determine that the altitude of first UAV is above a maximum cruise altitude or below a minimum cruise altitude threshold value.

Once operation is determined to be compromised the UAV may perform one or more remedial actions to attempt to mitigate or correct the compromise. For example the UAV may transmit alert data indicative of the compromised operation to a server that is associated with an administrative user. The administrative user may plan on how to solve any possible issues that may arise based on the occurrence of a threat that may compromise the UAV.

In another example the first UAV that has been determined to be compromised may transmit the alert data to other UAVs in the mesh network. Continuing the example responsive to the alert data a second UAV may approach the first UAV and provide commands or other data to direct the first UAV to a safe landing parking docking and so forth.

Directionality of signals received by the UAV may be used to determine a compromise or attempt to compromise the UAV. The UAV may incorporate directional antennas optical detectors and so forth configured to provide information such as a direction relative to the UAV of a source of a signal. In some implementations a plurality of antennas may be used in conjunction with other devices suitable for measuring Doppler frequency differences phase differences and so forth to determine a direction of the signal. The UAV may access source data providing information about the source. An expected direction may be generated indicating from what direction relative to the UAV the signal is expected to arrive from. Should the direction as received differ from the expected direction a compromise may be determined. For example signals from a satellite navigation system may be expected to come from an overhead direction. Receipt of satellite navigation signals from below an aerial UAV in flight may result in a determination of a compromise such as resulting from malicious or inadvertent jamming from a terrestrial radio transmitter.

In another example an adversarial person may interfere with the UAV such that the UAV begins to fall from the sky. The UAV may deploy a protective device such as an airbag foam parachute bumper and so forth or the UAV may initiate a mode such as configuring autorotation of one or more rotors in response to the determination that the UAV is compromised. The protective device may be configured to absorb or reduce the kinetic energy released during impact between the UAV and another object. For example foam may be deployed to cover at least a portion of one or more surfaces of the UAV. Other actions that the UAV may perform in response to an occurrence of a compromise are discussed below.

By determining that an operation of the UAV may be compromised countermeasures may be provided. The countermeasures may reduce or eliminate ill intentioned acts inadvertent system failures or mitigate the impact of such acts or failures. For example theft of the UAVs or items carried by the UAVs due tampering may be reduced or eliminated. In another example if a malicious person attempts to gain control of the UAV the compromise may be detected and the UAV may enter a fail safe mode in which the UAV returns to base or lands on the ground. The countermeasures may reduce the adverse consequences associated with the compromise.

One or more networks not shown facilitate communication between the one or more UAVs the one or more first computing devices the one or more second computing devices and the one or more servers . These networks may include a local network a wide area network WAN broadcast network a personal area network PAN a wired and wireless local area network LAN and so forth. In some implementations the network includes at least one of Ethernet Wi Fi as promulgated by the Wi Fi Alliance 3G and 4G Bluetooth as promulgated by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group and so forth. In some implementations the devices and systems described herein are configured to directly connect to each other. A plurality of UAVs may establish a network between one another to exchange data. For example as depicted here the UAVs may form a mesh network . External data may be received from one or more of the plurality of UAVs using the mesh network . The communication links between the UAVs in the mesh network may be encrypted. The communication links may also utilize particular modulation schemes such as frequency hopping spread spectrum and so forth to maintain security reduce interference and so forth. In other implementations other network topologies may be used such as ring networks star networks tree networks and so forth.

The UAV comprises a mobile machine able to operate in one or more autonomous or semi autonomous modes. In a fully autonomous mode the UAV may be configured to manage without human intervention route selection navigation piloting and so forth. In a semi autonomous mode some human intervention may be utilized. For example in a semi autonomous mode a human operator may designate or approve a particular navigational route. The UAV may be configured to transport one or more items such as a package for delivery. The UAV may include an uncrewed ground vehicle an uncrewed aerial vehicle a drone a remotely piloted aircraft and so forth. In some implementations the UAV is configured to transport people.

The first computing device may include at least one of a wireless beacon a smartphone a tablet computer a laptop computer a wearable computing device an electronic book eBook reader an in vehicle communication system a desktop computer a television a gaming console a server and so forth. The first computing device may include one or more communication interfaces. For example the first computing device may include a wireless communication interface . The wireless communication interface may be configured to provide communications with the UAV web based resources servers routers wireless access points network access satellites cellular towers and so forth. The wireless communication interface may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including LANs wireless LANs WANs wireless WANs and so forth.

The first computing device may include a control module configured to manage various components devices or systems of the first computing device . The control module may be configured to manage hardware resources such as an input output I O interface e.g. the wireless communication interface or an I O device. The control module may provide various services to applications or modules executing on the first computing device .

The UAV may navigate towards the first computing device using information transmitted by the first computing device . The UAV may use trustworthy data transmitted by the first computing device to navigate to the first computing device . In one example the first computing device comprises a wireless beacon. The wireless beacon periodically transmits trustworthy data comprising information that includes at least one of the location of the wireless beacon or a unique identification of the wireless beacon. In the first computing device is associated with a user . The user may be described as trustworthy because the user may operate the first computing device with good intentions such that harmless information that is not structured to cause harmful effects may be transmitted from the first computing device to the UAV .

The second computing device may include at least one of a wireless signal jammer a wireless beacon a smartphone a tablet computer a laptop computer a wearable computing device an eBook reader an in vehicle communication system a desktop computer a television a gaming console a server and so forth. The second computing device may include one or more communication interfaces. For example the second computing device may include a wireless communication interface . The wireless communication interface may be configured to provide communications with the UAV web based resources servers routers wireless access points network access satellites cellular towers and so forth. The wireless communication interface may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including LANs wireless LANs WANs wireless WANs and so forth. The second computing device may include a control module configured to manage various components devices or systems of the second computing device . The control module may be configured to manage hardware resources such as an I O interface e.g. the wireless communication interface or an I O device. The control module may provide various services to applications or modules executing on the second computing device .

The second computing device may be configured to cause a threat that may compromise the UAV . In the second computing device is associated with a person . In one example the person may be described as an adversarial person with ill intentions seeking to exploit weaknesses in a computer system or computer network for personal gain. In another example the person may attempt to damage or capture the UAV using a weapon such as a firearm or bow and arrow. In yet another example the person may be unaware that the second computing device is causing a threat that may compromise the UAV . In this example unknown to the person an operational malfunction of or compromise of the software executing on the second computing device may cause interfering signals from the second computing device to compromise the UAV .

The second computing device may transmit malicious data to the UAV using the wireless communication interface . For example the second computing device may be compromised by a virus malware Trojan horse and so forth configured to transmit the malicious data . In another example the second computing device comprises a wireless signal jammer and the person intends to use the wireless signal jammer to cause the UAV to crash or otherwise manipulate its operation by interfering with the reception of data transmitted by the first computing device . The malicious data may comprise malicious information or instructions structured to cause harmful effects false data and so forth. The harmful effects may include a disruption of computer operations gathering sensitive information gaining access to private computer systems providing false input and so forth. In one example the malicious data comprises malicious software malware . The malware may include at least one of computer viruses ransomware worms Trojan horses keyloggers adware spyware root kit or other malicious programs. In some implementations the malicious data may be described as a computer contaminant. In another example the malicious data may comprise information that is improperly constructed such that harmful effects occur. In yet another example the malicious data may comprise false navigational data such as when spoofing a navigational system.

The UAV may include a first wireless communication interface configured to establish a first wireless communication link with the first computing device . The first wireless communication interface may establish the first communication link on a carrier frequency below 10 gigahertz GHz . The first computing device may provide data indicating an identification of the first computing device or the location of the first computing device using the first communication link. As discussed in more detail below with regard to heartbeat data may be transmitted between the UAV and the first computing device . The heartbeat data may be used to verify that the first communication link is established between the UAV and the first computing device over a period of time.

The UAV may include a second wireless communication interface configured to establish a second wireless communication link with the first computing device or with another UAV that is close by. The second wireless communication interface may establish the second wireless communication link on a carrier frequency above 60 GHz with a bandwidth that is equal to or greater than 100 megahertz MHz .

The first computing device may provide data indicating an identification of the first computing device or the location of the first computing device using the second wireless communication link. The heartbeat data may be transmitted between the UAV and the first computing device using the second wireless communication link. To increase resistance to interference and signal jamming the second wireless communication link may be executed using one or more of spread spectrum or frequency hopping.

In another implementation the first UAV may receive commands from another UAV by way of the second wireless communication interface . For example upon determination of a compromise of the first UAV the second UAV may take control over the first UAV and guide it to a predetermined location such as a safe landing zone.

The UAV may include a first navigation system and a different second navigation system . At least one of the first navigation system or the second navigation system may include an inertial navigation system dead reckoning navigation system network positioning system radio position finding system satellite based navigation system cellular tower based locating systems an accelerometer system a gyroscope system altimeters speed measuring devices odometers compasses and so forth. The satellite based navigation system may include one or more of a Global Positioning System GPS receiver a global navigation satellite system GLONASS receiver a Galileo receiver an Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System and so forth.

In the first navigation system generates first location data indicative of a first location of the UAV and the second navigation system generates second location data indicative of a second location of the UAV . The location data and may include any suitable data indicative of a location. The location may be specified in terms of latitude longitude altitude grid square street address position relative to navigational beacons or landmarks and so forth. For example the location of the UAV may be specified as 48.918 North 119.446 West altitude of 310 meters 816 Juniper Street radial 297 distance 15.4 kilometers from CWK VORTAC Maidenhead Grid Square DN08gw and so forth.

The UAV may include a compromise module configured to generate UAV compromise data . The UAV compromise data may indicate a determination that a threat which may compromise the UAV has occurred. The UAV compromise data may indicate the occurrence of an actual compromise or the UAV compromise data may provide information indicative of a possible occurrence of a compromise. In the compromise module compares the first location data with the second location data and determines operation of the UAV is compromised. In this example the operation of the UAV includes determining the location of the UAV . The UAV may navigate proximate to the first computing device using the location of the UAV . The compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data because the location indicated by the first location data is different from the location indicated by the second location data by a threshold value.

The compromise module may be configured to accept input from different systems redundant systems or external systems such as other UAVs in the mesh network . For example the compromise module may receive external data from other UAVs in the mesh network .

The input used by the compromise module may be compared in a voting scheme. For example a third navigation system onboard another UAV may be present that generates third location data indicative of the location of the first UAV as observed by the third UAV . The compromise module may compare the first location data the second location data and the third location data assigning a vote or value to the location indicated by each. The compromise module may disregard the location data that provides a result outside of a boundary condition with the remaining two votes . For example if the first location data indicates a location in the vicinity of Austin Tex. the second location data indicates a location in the vicinity of Houston Tex. and the third location data also indicates a location of Austin Tex. the second location data may be outvoted and disregarded.

The UAV may include a fail safe module . The fail safe module may be configured to minimize harm or potential harm that may be caused to or by the UAV . The fail safe module may be configured to perform one or more actions in response to the generation of the UAV compromise data . In one example the fail safe module terminates the navigation of the UAV to a previously assigned destination such as the first computing device .

In some implementations the fail safe module causes the UAV to land on the ground park dock or otherwise assume a safe situation in response to the generation of the UAV compromise data . For example the fail safe module may transition the UAV to a fail safe mode in which only a limited set of sensors are used and programming is limited to landing the UAV .

The fail safe module may be configured to direct the UAV where possible to a safe location. The safe location may be a predetermined area such as a facility at which the UAV is based has designated landing or parking areas and so forth. For example prior to deployment of the UAV data indicative of the safe locations may be stored by the UAV for subsequent use should the need arise.

In some implementations the fail safe module may determine safe locations based on criteria. For example the criteria may be such that a safe location is designated as a relatively flat area determined to be free of people vehicles homes and so forth. In some implementations the UAV may store or be provided with information indicative of the safe location such as by other UAVs in the mesh network . In yet another example the fail safe module may cause the UAV to backtrack along a previously traveled route return to a predetermined location such as a base proceed to the destination location and then shutdown and so forth.

In another example the fail safe module may instruct the compromised UAV to hold one or more of a particular location or altitude until one or more other UAVs U arrive or are able to provide additional information about the compromised UAV . For example upon detecting a potential compromise the compromised UAV may hover over a safe location until another UAV arrives to provide commands to guide the compromised UAV to another destination such as a safe landing.

The fail safe module may comprise dedicated hardware such as a separate processor memory I O devices and so forth. In other implementations the fail safe module may be executed at least in part with a secured environment such as the Intel Trusted Execution Technology from Intel Corporation the TrustZone Technology as promulgated by ARM Holdings and so forth.

The UAV may include an alert module configured to generate alert data . The alert data may comprise information indicating an occurrence of the compromise module generating the UAV compromise data . In one example the alert module is configured to activate a strobe light configured to produce flashes of light which may be used by an administrative user or another UAV to find the UAV that has landed. In another example the alert module is configured to emit a high volume sound. For example a siren sound or warning announcement may be audibly broadcast by speakers onboard the UAV while the UAV is landing or parking.

The alert data may be sent to one or more of the UAVs in the mesh network . The UAVs in the mesh network may relay the alert data to the server . In some implementations one or more of the other UAVs may take action. For example where the compromised UAV has issued alert data the second UAV may travel proximate to the compromised UAV and maintain surveillance on the compromised UAV . Other UAVs . . . U may join in the surveillance supplementing or replacing the second UAV . Continuing the example several UAVs may trade out the role of watching over the compromised UAV to a fresh UAV as each runs low on battery power.

In another implementation distribution of the alert data may result in other UAVs having a route proximate to the location of the compromised UAV may be redirected. While these UAVs may not loiter near the compromised UAV they may pass by gathering surveillance data as to the disposition of the compromised UAV . For example the first UAV may be compromised and may land in a safe location such as an empty parking lot. Other UAVs having routes carrying them near the empty parking lot may change their routing such that they overfly the empty parking lot. During their overflight the other UAVs may acquire surveillance data such as imagery of the first UAV in the empty parking lot telemetry from the first UAV and so forth.

In some implementations the administrative user may plan on how to solve any possible issues that may arise because of the threat that may compromise the UAV . For example the administrative user may plan to retrieve the UAV or contact the user to inform the user of the occurrence of the threat.

In some implementations a plurality of UAVs may operate collaboratively. For example UAVs within communication range of one another using one or more of the first wireless communication interface or the second wireless communication interface may be configured to establish the mesh network and exchange information such as current location data a bearing of the neighboring UAV as determined by another sensor and so forth. By comparing the information from neighboring UAVs the compromise module may determine a compromise to one or more of the UAVs has occurred.

The UAV may include at least one hardware processor or processor configured to execute stored instructions. The at least one processor may comprise one or more cores.

The UAV may include a clock not shown such as a circuit that produces a timing signal or clock signal used to synchronize operations of the UAV . The clock may include a resonant circuit e.g. a quartz piezoelectric oscillator and amplifier.

The UAV may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software not shown that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the UAV .

The UAV may include one or more communication interfaces . The communications interface may include one or more input output I O interfaces that enable portions of the UAV e.g. the processor to communicate with other devices. The I O interface may be configured to implement various protocols such as Inter Integrated Circuit I2C Serial Peripheral Interface bus SPI Universal Serial Bus USB RS 232 HDMI TOSLINK Bluetooth and so forth.

The communications interface may include one or more network interfaces . The network interface may be configured to provide communications with other UAVs the first computing device the second computing device web based resources servers routers wireless access points network access satellites cellular towers and so forth. The network interface may include wireless functions and devices configured to couple to one or more networks including LANs wireless LANs WANs wireless WANs and so forth.

The network interface may include the first wireless communication interface . The first wireless communication interface may be configured to establish a first wireless communication link with the first computing device or another UAV . The first wireless communication interface may establish the first communication link on a carrier frequency below 10 GHz. For example the first computing device may provide data indicating an identification of the first computing device or the location of the first computing device using the first communication link. The first wireless communication link may use a cellular wireless network licensed dedicated frequencies associated with operation of the UAVs and so forth.

The first wireless communication interface may be configured to provide communications with other UAVs the first computing device the second computing device web based resources servers routers wireless access points network access satellites cellular towers and so forth. The first wireless communication interface may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including wireless LANs wireless WANs and so forth.

The network interface may include the second wireless communication interface . The second wireless communication interface may be configured to establish a second wireless communication link with one or more of the first computing device or other UAVs . The second wireless communication interface may establish the second wireless communication link on a carrier frequency above 60 GHz with a bandwidth that is equal to or greater than 100 MHz. For example the first computing device or another UAV may use the second wireless communication link to provide data indicating one or more of an identification of the first computing device or another UAV the location of the first computing device or another UAV and so forth.

To increase resistance to interference and signal jamming the second wireless communication link may be executed using one or more of spread spectrum frequency hopping or other techniques. The second wireless communication interface may be configured to provide communications with other UAVs the first computing device the second computing device web based resources servers routers wireless access points network access satellites cellular towers and so forth. The second wireless communication interface may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including wireless LANs wireless WANs and so forth.

In some implementations the first wireless communication interface the second wireless communication interface or both may include a directional antenna or array of antennas. The compromise module may be configured to acquire and provide information about the location data of neighboring UAVs . This information combined with directional information as to the source of a received signal may be used to determine a compromise. For example a first UAV and a second UAV may be travelling together. The first UAV may report first location data indicative of a first set of coordinates and the second UAV may report second location data indicative of a second set of coordinates. The first set of coordinates may be to the left of the second set of coordinates. The directional data from the wireless communication interface of the first UAV may indicate that signals from the second UAV are being received from somewhere to the left of the first UAV instead of somewhere to the right as expected from the coordinates. As a result a compromise may be determined based on this discrepancy. In another example satellite navigation signals received from below the UAV while in flight may indicate a compromise.

The I O interface may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard a touch sensor a digital camera user input buttons and so forth.

The I O device may include one or more sensors not shown that may comprise one or more devices that detect or measures certain properties. The sensor may record indicate or otherwise respond to the detection of a certain property. The sensor may include a location sensor configured to generate information about the location of the UAV . The information about the location of the UAV may comprise the location data . The location data may include geolocation data which is indicative of a latitude and longitude and in some implementations altitude of the UAV . The location data may be specified in terms of grid square street address position relative to navigational beacons or landmarks and so forth. For example the location of the UAV may be specified as 48.918 North 119.446 West 310 meters 816 Juniper Street radial 297 distance 15.4 kilometers from CWK VORTAC Maidenhead Grid Square DN08gw and so forth. The location sensor may determine the location of the UAV using at least one of the first navigation system or the second navigation system .

The sensors may include an imager e.g. a camera . The imager may detect objects which may allow the UAV to identify the objects. There could also be different imagers oriented in different directions left right and rear views or a lens system that captures views in multiple directions all of which are captured by the same imager . The imager may be configured to acquire image data e.g. photographs video data or a combination thereof. The imager may include any device configured to acquire image data .

The sensors may include a sun sensor . The sun sensor may be configured to generate sun data indicative of a position of the sun relative to at least one of the sun sensor or the UAV . As discussed in more detail below the compromise module may use the sun data to determine whether a threat that may compromise the UAV has occurred. The sun data may be compared with information such as from a celestial almanac navigational tables and so forth to determine information such as latitude or longitude estimate time of date and so forth.

The sensors may include a compass that indicates direction in a frame of reference that is stationary to the surface of earth. In one example the compass generates heading data that indicates a direction towards which the UAV is moving. For example the heading data may indicate that the UAV is travelling northeast. The compass may include at least one of a magnetometer or a gyrocompass.

The sensors may include a microphone to acquire audio data about the surrounding environment of the UAV . The audio data may indicate that a projectile e.g. an arrow or a bullet has been discharged from a weapon. As discussed in more detail below the compromise module may use the audio data to determine whether a threat that may harm the UAV has occurred.

In yet another example the sensors may include a proximity sensor configured to generate presence data indicative of a presence of an object proximate to the UAV . For example the proximity sensor may detect another UAV a projectile e.g. an arrow or a bullet from a weapon the earth and so forth. The proximity sensor may include optical proximity sensors capacitive proximity sensors acoustic proximity sensors near field communication NFC tag readers radio frequency identification RFID tag readers and so forth. For example the RFID tag readers may generate proximity data based on detection and strength of a radio signal received from an RFID tag. The proximity sensors may generate the presence data by using remote sensing technologies such as lidar radar sonar and so forth.

The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more displays speakers haptic output devices and so forth. The I O device may include other I O devices . For example the other I O devices may include at least one of an accelerometer or a gyroscope that is configured to generate movement data representing movement of the UAV . In some implementations the gyroscope may be configured to generate information about vibrations of the UAV . In another example the other I O device includes a magnetometer configured to measure the strength and the direction of magnetic fields. Other I O devices may include a temperature sensor a vibration sensor an altimeter a pitot tube and so forth. The I O devices may be physically incorporated within the UAV or the I O devices may be externally placed. The I O devices may include various other devices not shown as well.

A directional array is configured to determine a direction of a signal. The signal may be associated with a communication interface navigation system and so forth. For example where the signal comprises a radio frequency RF signal the directional array may comprise one or more antennas exhibiting gain or directivity in one or more predetermined directions. Continuing the example the directional array may comprise a plurality of microwave horn antennas each mounted to provide gain in a different direction. In another example the directional array may comprise a plurality of omnidirectional antennas. In yet another example where the signal comprises an optical signal such as infrared visible or ultraviolet light the directional array may comprise a set of optical detectors having baffles lenses or other structures to accept light from a particular direction.

The directional array may be configured to generate signal direction data . For example an array of a plurality of omnidirectional antennas may use a comparison of Doppler or phase differences in the signals received at the antennas to determine a direction. The signal direction data comprises information indicative of the direction from which a signal was received by the directional array . The signal direction data may indicate an absolute direction such as a compass heading or a relative direction such as a bearing relative to the UAV to which the directional array is affixed.

The compromise module may be configured to access source data . The source data comprises information indicative of an expected location of a source of the signal received by the directional array . The source data may vary based on the type of source mode in which the UAV is operating and so forth. In one implementation the source data for a satellite based source such as a navigational satellite may be based on almanac data received from a satellite navigation system ephemeris data received from the satellite navigation system and so forth. Continuing the example the source data associated with the GPS navigational satellites may be the ephemeris data and almanac data transmitted by the satellites.

In another implementation the source data may comprise coordinates indicative of a location of the source when the source is fixed. For example the latitude longitude and altitude of a fixed terrestrial broadcast transmitter may be stored.

In another implementation the source data may be relatively coarse. For example the source data may provide relative position data indicating that the source is expected to be above or below in front or behind and so forth relative to the UAV . The relative position data indicates the expected direction of the signal relative to the UAV and may be independent of the exact location of the UAV .

The UAV may include the first navigation system and the second navigation system . At least one of the first navigation system or the second navigation system may include an inertial navigation system dead reckoning navigation system network positioning system radio position finding system satellite based navigation system cellular tower based locating systems an accelerometer system a gyroscope system tilt sensor odometers compasses accelerometers and so forth. The satellite based navigation system may include one or more of a GPS receiver a GLONASS receiver a Galileo receiver an Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System and so forth.

The UAV may include one or more protective devices or modes configured to absorb or reduce the kinetic energy released during an impact between the UAV and another object. As discussed in more detail below the fail safe module may deploy the protective devices or modes in response to a determination that a compromise to the UAV has occurred.

The protective devices may include an airbag foam a parachute a bumper a rotor and so forth. The airbag may be configured to inflate and absorb kinetic energy released during an impact between the UAV and another object.

The foam may be configured to be deployed in response to a determination that a compromise to the UAV has occurred. The foam may be designed to coat or cover at least a portion of one or more surfaces of the UAV .

The parachute may be aerodynamically or ballistically deployed. For example a person may shoot the UAV with a weapon such as a gun causing the UAV to fall towards Earth. The compromise module may detect the gunshot and loss of altitude and the fail safe module may cause the parachute to deploy which may reduce the severity of the impact between the UAV and another object such as the ground.

The bumper may comprise one or more structures configured to deform or crush upon impact to absorb kinetic energy released during an impact. For example the bumper may comprise a set of crushable pylons configured to be deployed beneath the UAV .

The UAV may include one or more rotors configured to generate aerodynamic lift force that supports the weight of the UAV and thrust that counteracts the aerodynamic drag in forward flight. In some implementations the rotors may be operated in an autorotation or drag mode. For example in the autorotation mode the rotors may not be producing lift but may retard a fall of the UAV or allow for some lateral control of the UAV . As discussed in more detail below the compromise module may use the amount of energy consumed by the rotors to determine whether a compromise to the UAV has occurred.

As illustrated in the UAV may include at least one memory or memory device. The memory may include at least one non transitory computer readable storage media CRSM . The CRSM may include at least one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium a mechanical computer storage medium and so forth. The memory may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the UAV .

The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . The OS module may be configured to manage hardware resources such as the communication interface the I O devices and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processor . The memory may also store at least one of the following modules that may be executed as foreground applications background tasks daemons and so forth.

The memory may include the compromise module configured to generate the UAV compromise data indicative of a determination that a threat which may compromise the UAV has occurred. Generating the UAV compromise data may comprise determining one or more operations of the UAV are compromised. The generation of the UAV compromise data may be based on a variety of different systems and determinations. For example the compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data based on different locations associated with the UAV being different by a threshold value. The compromise module may compare the first location data with the second location data and determine that a distance between the locations indicated by the first location data and the second location data are greater than a threshold distance.

In another example the compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data based on the heading data . For example the first navigation system may generate first heading data using a satellite based navigation system. The first heading data may indicate a first direction towards which the UAV is moving. The second navigation system may generate second heading data using the compass . The second heading data may indicate a second direction towards which the UAV is moving. The compromise module may compare the first heading data with the second heading data and the compromise module may determine that the first direction is different from the second direction by a threshold value. As a result the compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data .

The compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data based on the image data . For example while the UAV navigates to the first computing device the imager may acquire the image data that includes data representing objects e.g. a mountain a road a building and so on in the surrounding environment. The compromise module may access an image data store that includes data representing one or more objects that are expected to be depicted in the acquired image data . The compromise module may compare the image data acquired from the imager with the data from the image data store and determine that one or more objects are missing from the acquired image data . In another example the compromise module may compare the image data acquired from the imager with the data from the image data store and determine that one or more unexpected objects are included. In response the compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data . In another example based on the trajectory and location of the UAV the compromise module may expect that an object e.g. the sun a bridge and so on should be depicted in the acquired image data . In this example if the compromise module determines that the acquired image data does not include the expected objects the compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data .

The image data may also include information about visible occurrences in the environment around the UAV . For example the image data may include images of lightning muzzle flashes and so forth. The compromise module may be configured to generate UAV compromise data indicative of these events. For example the compromise module may determine that lightning or muzzle flashes are proximate to the UAV .

The compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data based on a parameter exceeding a threshold level. For example an airspeed measuring device may transition from reading 10 m s to 300 m s within 500 milliseconds. The UAV may be unable to accelerate that quickly and so this transition may result in generation of the UAV compromise data .

The compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data based on a change in the direction in which data is received. For example the compromise module may receive first command data from the first computing device . The first command data may comprise data indicative of a request for the UAV to perform a process. The compromise module may determine a first direction relative to the UAV in which the first command data was received. The compromise module may receive second command data from the second computing device . The compromise module determines that the second command data was received from a second different direction relative to the UAV . The compromise module determines that the first direction is different from the second different direction by a threshold value. In response the compromise module generates the UAV compromise data .

The command data may comprise one or more instructions configured to elicit a particular response from one or more devices or systems onboard the UAV . For example the command data may comprise location data such as latitude longitude altitude airspeed heading and so forth. In another example the command data may comprise particular instructions to turn left turn right increase altitude decrease altitude increase speed decrease speed and so forth.

The compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data based on energy consumption of one or more systems or devices of the UAV . For example the compromise module may generate energy consumption data indicative of an amount of energy consumed by the one or more rotors . The compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data in response to a determination that the amount of energy consumed by the one or more rotors is greater than or equal to a threshold value. In another example the compromise module may access data indicative of previous amounts of energy consumed by the one or more rotors . The compromise module may compare the current energy consumption amount of the rotors with the previous amounts of energy consumed by the rotors and determine that the difference between the current energy consumption and the previous energy consumption is greater than or equal to a threshold amount. As a result the compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data .

The compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data based on heartbeat data . The heartbeat data may comprise periodic signals generated at regular time intervals. The first computing device may provide the heartbeat data to the UAV over a period of time. The UAV may use the heartbeat data to confirm that a communication link is established between the UAV and the first computing device . The compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data if the compromise module expects to but does not receive the heartbeat data from the first computing device . The heartbeat data may be provided between the network interface of the UAV and the wireless communication interface of the first computing device using an encrypted data stream.

In some implementations UAVs within the mesh network may provide heartbeat data to one another. For example the first UAV may receive heartbeat data from the UAVs and that are in range or within a threshold number of hops within the mesh network . As UAVs move about their respective routes they may move closer or farther apart coming into or out of range of one another. However changes to heartbeat data in a short span of time may indicate compromise. For example should the first UAV no longer be receiving heartbeat data from the UAVs this may be indicative of compromise in the form of jamming of the receiver of the first UAV failure of a communication interface and so forth.

The compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data based on sun data that is indicative of the position of the sun relative to at least one of the sun sensor or the UAV . For example while the UAV navigates to the first computing device the sun sensor may generate first sun data indicating a first position of the sun relative to the sun sensor . The compromise module may generate second sun data indicating a second position of the sun relative to the sun sensor based on the location data of the UAV . For example based on the trajectory and location of the UAV the compromise module may determine the second sun data by looking up information about the position of the sun stored within a data store that includes information about the position of the sun relative to the location and the trajectory of the UAV . The compromise module may compare the first sun data with the second sun data and may generate the UAV compromise data in response to a determination that the first position of the sun is different than the second position of the sun by a threshold value.

The compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data based on the establishment of one or more communication links between the UAV and another computing device. For example the UAV may be configured to establish a first wireless communication link with the first computing device . The first wireless communication link may have a first operational range equal to or greater than 100 meters. The UAV may also be configured to establish a second wireless communication link with the first computing device when the UAV is proximate to the first computing device . In this example the UAV is proximate to the first computing device when the UAV is located less than 100 meters from the first computing device . The compromise module may determine one or more operations of the UAV are compromised in response to a determination that the second wireless communication link has been established when the first computing device is located greater than 100 meters from the UAV .

The memory may include an acoustic module configured to generate the audio data that includes information about the surrounding environment of the UAV . In one example the acoustic module uses the microphone to capture audio from the surrounding environment of the UAV . The acoustic module may analyze the audio data to determine whether the captured audio data is associated with one or more predetermined actions. For example the acoustic module may analyze the audio data to determine that a gunshot has occurred from the surrounding environment of the UAV . The compromise module may include the acoustic module or operate with the acoustic module to determine whether a threat that may compromise the UAV has occurred. For example in response to the audio data indicating a gunshot has occurred the compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data .

The memory may include a damage detection module configured to generate damage data indicative of a determination that one or more devices or systems of the UAV has been damaged. For example the damage data may indicate that one or more of the rotors of the UAV have failed. In one implementation this determination may be due to one or more of a change in onboard vibrations as detected by a vibration detector unexpected decrease in power consumption by the rotor .

The compromise module may include the damage detection module or operate with the damage detection module to determine whether or not a threat that may compromise the UAV has occurred. For example in response to the damage data indicating that one or more devices or systems of the UAV has failed the compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data . In yet another example the compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data in response to a determination that the damage data was generated within a threshold period of time from the generation of the audio data indicating that one or more predetermined actions e.g. a gunshot has occurred.

The memory may include a metric module configured to generate metric data . The compromise module may include the metric module or operate with the metric module to determine whether or not a threat that may compromise the UAV has occurred. The metric data may comprise information about one or more metric values indicative of one or more quantitative measurements of operation or performance while executing one or more computational tasks. The metrics may include processor usage memory usage I O interface usage and so forth. The compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data in response to a determination that one or more of the metrics are equal to or greater than a threshold value.

The memory may include the fail safe module . The fail safe module may be configured to minimize harm or potential harm that may be caused to or by the UAV . The fail safe module may be configured to perform one or more actions in response to the generation of the UAV compromise data . In one example the fail safe module terminates the navigation of the UAV to the first computing device . In some implementations the fail module causes the UAV to land in response to the generation of the UAV compromise data . In other implementations the UAV may be configured to return to the location in which the UAV began the navigation to the first computing device or the UAV may be configured to navigate to another location.

The fail safe module may be configured to render one or more circuits or the memory inoperable. For example the fail safe module may provide one or more of an electrical current or electrical voltage above a predetermined level to one or more circuits of the UAV to render the circuits inoperable. In another example contents of the memory may be erased wiped destroyed or otherwise rendered unreadable. For example a memory scrubbing technique of writing multiple passes of random information to the memory may be used. The fail safe module may render the one or more circuits or the memory inoperable in response to a determination that the UAV is positioned less than a threshold distance from an object. For example the fail safe module may provide the electric current to one or more circuits of the UAV in response to a determination that the UAV is positioned 5 meters from Earth. Rendering the memory inoperable may cause data stored on the memory to be permanently deleted or inaccessible. By rendering one or more circuits or the memory inoperable the person may be discouraged from stealing the UAV .

The fail safe module may be configured to deploy one or more devices or components to minimize or attempt to minimize potential damage that may occur to surrounding objects in the environment of the UAV . For example the fail safe module may deploy at least one of the airbag the foam the parachute or the bumper . The fail safe module may initiate special operating modes such as configuring the rotors for autorotation to retard a fall and provide for some lateral control over the UAV . The fail safe module may be configured to deploy the one or more devices or components in response to the generation of the UAV compromise data .

The fail safe module may be configured to cause the UAV to disregard data received from at least one of certain sensors or other computing devices in communication with the UAV . For example once a compromise occurs the fail safe module may be configured to accept data from the proximity sensor and ignore data received from the location sensor the imager the sun sensor the compass and so forth.

The memory may include the alert module configured to generate the alert data . The alert data may comprise information indicating an occurrence of the compromise module determining that a threat that may compromise the UAV has occurred. One problem may be that the person is using a wireless signal jammer to attempt to cause the UAV to fall from the air. Another problem may be an overload of the UAV because the UAV may not have enough resources to handle an increase in the amount of hardware resource consumption. The alert module may provide the alert data to the server . The server may be executing a monitoring service associated with an administrative user of the UAV . The administrative user may plan on how to solve any possible issues that may arise because of a threat that may compromise the UAV . For example the administrative user may plan to retrieve the UAV or the administrative user may contact the user to inform the user of the occurrence of the threat.

The memory may include one or more other modules . For example the one or more other modules may be configured to manage administrative preferences account information and so forth. In another example the one or more other modules includes a user interface module configured to provide a user interface to the user or to the UAV . In one implementation the user interface may be a web interface presented via the network and accessible to the user of the UAV . In another implementation the user interface may comprise an application programming interface API that enables communication such as sending requests for data from the first computing device to the UAV . The user interface may be presented using one or more output devices such as the display the speaker and so forth. For example the display onboard the UAV may be used to provide an emergency message to passersby such as contact information for the administrative user offer of a reward for safe return and so forth.

The one or more other modules may include a presentation module configured to present information using output devices of the UAV . For example the presentation may include displaying the information using the display of the UAV or producing audio using speakers of the UAV . In another example the one or more other modules may include a UAV control module configured to manage various components devices or systems of the UAV . In the fully autonomous mode the UAV control module may be configured to manage without human intervention route selection navigation piloting and so forth. In the semi autonomous mode the UAV control module may be configured to enable some human intervention. For example the UAV control module may enable a human operator to designate or approve a particular navigational route. In some implementations the UAV control module is remotely controlled by a pilot on the ground or in another mobile machine.

In some implementations the memory includes a data store for storing information. The data store may use a flat file database linked list tree or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the data store or a portion thereof may be distributed across at least one other device such as a server a network storage device and so forth. As illustrated in the data store may include at least one of the location data the trustworthy data the malicious data the UAV compromise data the alert data the image data the sun data the heading data the audio data the image data store the command data the energy consumption data the heartbeat data the damage data the metric data or other data . The other data may include information such as administrator preferences account information associated with users and so forth.

The data in the data store may be retained for performance improvement troubleshooting diagnostic or other purposes. For example the UAV compromise data indicative of a compromise event may be retained along with contemporaneous data such as the image data heading data audio data command data energy consumption data damage data metric data and so forth.

The UAV may be uncrewed in that there is no human operator aboard. Operation of the UAV may be remotely controlled by a human operator at another location such as in a control facility. In some implementations the UAV may be controlled at least in part by computers or other data processing devices at another location such as in a datacenter.

The UAV may be designed for non military and non law enforcement usage. For example the UAV may be configured to transport commercial cargo. The UAV may be configured to transport packages from a distribution center to a residential home business and so forth. The UAV may be described as non military and not associated with or involved with the armed forces law enforcement or other sovereign entities.

The UAV may be constructed to be relatively light in weight and having relatively limited capabilities as compared to human operated devices. For example an aerial UAV may have limited altitude and range compared to a human crewed aircraft. Continuing the example the UAV may weigh less than 45 kilograms kg may be configured to fly at a maximum altitude of 3 kilometers and may have a maximum range of 55 kilometers. In some implementations the UAV may be configured to have a maximum payload weight of 9 kg.

The UAV may be configured to provide items proximate to the first computing device . For example the UAV may deliver items such as food medicine blankets and so forth. The UAV may utilize propellers ducted fans jets envelopes containing a lighter than air gas and so forth to achieve and maintain flight. In some implementations the UAV may include at least one of fixed wings or propellers. In one example the UAV may utilize one or more propellers to enable takeoff and landing as well as a fixed wing configuration or a combination wing and propeller configuration to sustain flight while the UAV is airborne.

In the second computing device is depicted and associated with the person . The second computing device may be configured to cause a threat that may compromise the UAV based on the transmission of the malicious data . Continuing with the example the person may be an adversarial person with the intent to steal the item that the UAV is attempting to deliver to the user not shown .

The second computing device may transmit the malicious data to the UAV . The malicious data may include synthetic GPS data that is used by the first navigation system to determine a location of the UAV . The synthetic GPS data is not authentic. Using false identifying data to gain an illegitimate advantage may be referred to as a spoofing attack. In the second computing device performs a spoofing attack by providing the malicious data to the UAV to cause the UAV to navigate to a location other than a legitimate location.

The first navigation system uses the malicious data as an input to generate the first location data . The first location data represents a first location determination of the UAV . The first navigation system may include a GPS receiver used to generate the first location data . The second navigation system may comprise a radio position finding system. The second navigation system uses data received from terrestrial radio transmitters and as inputs to determine the second location data . The terrestrial radio transmitters may include those used for commercial broadcast navigational transmissions Wi Fi access points cellular telephone network transmitters and so forth. For example information such as station service set identifiers SSIDs received from Wi Fi access points may be used to determine the location of the UAV . The second location data represents a second location determination of the UAV .

In some implementations the compromise module may utilize external data such as received from one or more of the UAVs in the mesh network . For example the external data may comprise location data received from another UAV U .

In the compromise module determines the distance between the locations indicated by the location data and . The compromise module generates distance data indicating the distance between the locations indicated by the location data and . In this example the distance data is expressed in kilometers km . The first location data comprises a latitude and longitude 30 16 N 97 46 W and may include an altitude of 310 m. The second location data comprises a latitude and longitude 30 10 N 97 43 W and may include an altitude of 57 m. The compromise module generates distance data that indicates a distance of 10.69 km. In this example the compromise module is configured to determine an operation of the UAV is compromised in response to a determination that the distance is greater than a threshold value. In this example the threshold value includes a distance of 5 meters. Because the distance of 10.69 km is greater than 5 meters the compromise module determines operation of the UAV is compromised.

The alert module may generate the alert data and transmit the alert data to one or more of the server or other UAVs in the mesh network . As described below with regard to in some implementations other UAVs may assist the compromised UAV .

The fail safe module of the compromised UAV may terminate navigation to a previously designated destination and cause the UAV to return to the location in which the UAV was dispatched from land or take other remedial actions. For example one of the remedial actions may be to disable the onboard first navigation system and the second navigation system and rely on command data sent from another UAV to navigate. In this example a second UAV may guide the compromised UAV to a predetermined location such as a repair facility.

At the arrow is depicted as being projected from the bow towards the UAV . In this example although the malicious person intended for the arrow to strike the UAV the arrow misses the UAV . The compromise module detects the presence of the arrow and generates the UAV compromise data indicating that a threat exists that may compromise the UAV .

At the fail safe module terminates the navigation to the first computing device and the fail safe module directs the UAV towards the ground . In some implementations the fail safe module may be configured to direct the UAV to take evasive maneuvers navigate to a safe landing or parking zone for inspection and so forth. The course of action taken such as taking evasive maneuvers landing immediately and so forth may be determined or designated by the administrative user or another responsible party.

For example should the compromise module determine the UAV has suffered a catastrophic failure of flight systems from an impact of the arrow hardware failure or that control of the UAV has been compromised the fail safe module may direct the UAV to operate with the proximity sensor to land the UAV . The fail safe module may also disregard data received from certain devices or systems other than the proximity sensor . In some implementations the fail safe module may comprise a dedicated processor control hardware and so forth such that the fail safe module may be isolated at least in part from the other operational components of the UAV that may be compromised.

At the UAV has landed on the ground . For example the fail safe module may have navigated the UAV to a safe location such as a landing zone or parking lot that is away from the source of the threat. The alert module generates the alert data . The alert data may comprise information indicating the occurrence of the landing process and the last available or current location data generated by the UAV . In some implementations the alert module may include audible or visual warnings provided to warn passersby away from the UAV .

At the UAV establishes a first wireless communication link with a computing device on a carrier frequency below 10 GHz. The first wireless communication link may be established using a cellular wireless network. In one example the UAV establishes the first wireless communication link with the first computing device in response to the first computing device transmitting a request for an item e.g. food to be delivered proximate to the first computing device . The UAV may receive the heartbeat data from the first computing device using the first wireless communication link. The UAV may use the heartbeat data to confirm the establishment of the first wireless communication link. The first wireless communication link may have an operational range equal to or greater than 100 meters.

At the UAV navigates to a position proximate to the computing device. In some implementations the UAV may be proximate to the computing device when the UAV is able to establish a wireless communication link that uses wideband communication. In another example the UAV may be proximate to the computing device when the UAV is within a predetermined distance e.g. 5 meters of the first computing device .

At the UAV determines that the position of the UAV is within a threshold distance from the computing device. For example the proximity sensor may generate information indicating that the UAV is positioned within 9 meters of the first computing device .

At the UAV establishes a second wireless communication link with the computing device on a carrier frequency above 60 GHz with a bandwidth that is equal to or greater than 100 MHz. In one example the second wireless communication link is executed using one or more of spread spectrum or frequency hopping. The UAV may receive the heartbeat data from the computing device using the second wireless communication link. The UAV may use the heartbeat data to confirm the establishment of the second wireless communication link. The second wireless communication link may have an operational range equal to or less than 100 meters.

At the UAV generates first location data of the UAV using a first navigation system onboard the UAV . The first location data indicates a first location of the UAV . At the UAV generates second location data using a second navigation system . The second location data indicates a second location of the UAV .

At the UAV determines that the first location differs from the second location by a threshold value. In one example the threshold value comprises a distance of 9 meters. At the UAV determines operation of the UAV is compromised.

At the UAV enters a fail safe mode wherein the UAV is configured to disregard one or more of control commands the first location data or the second location data . In some implementations in response to a determination that one or more operations of the UAV have been compromised the UAV dispenses foam . The foam may be configured to cover at least a portion of one or more surfaces of the UAV . The foam may be configured to absorb kinetic energy released during an impact between the UAV and another object.

At the UAV lands. At the UAV transmits alert data indicative of one or more of the compromise of the UAV or the last available location data of the UAV . In one example the alert module is configured to activate a strobe light to produce flashes of light which may be used by the administrative user to find the UAV that has landed. In yet example the alert module is configured to emit a sound during or after landing.

At the UAV navigates proximate to a computing device. At the UAV generates audio data indicative of an occurrence of a gunshot or passage of a high velocity projectile such as from an airgun. At the UAV generates damage data indicative of a failure of a component of the UAV . For example a round of ammunition may strike a portion of the UAV causing a component to fail.

At the UAV determines that the damage data was generated within a threshold period of time from the generation of the audio data . For example the damage data occurred within 2 seconds of the audio data . At the UAV determines an operation of the UAV is compromised.

At the UAV dispenses the foam . The foam is configured to cover at least a portion of one or more surfaces of the UAV and may also be configured to absorb kinetic energy released during an impact between the UAV and another object.

At the UAV directs itself proximate to a computing device. In one example the UAV is proximate to the first computing device when the UAV is located less than 10 meters from the first computing device .

At the UAV accesses a first parameter associated with a first system of the UAV . At the UAV accesses a second parameter associated with a second system of the UAV . At least one of the first parameter or the second parameter may comprise information about one or more values indicative of one or more quantitative measurements of operation or performance of the UAV while executing one or more computational tasks. For example the first parameter may comprise one or more of the data stored in the data store e.g. the location data the trustworthy data the malicious data and so forth depicted in . The second parameter may comprise one or more of the data stored in the data store depicted in .

At the UAV compares the first parameter with the second parameter. For example the compromise module may compare the first location data with the second location data to determine the distance between the locations. In another example the compromise module may compare the image data with data retrieved from the image data store to determine when the image data lacks any depictions of any objects that are expected to be included within the image data . In yet another example the compromise module may compare the audio data with the damage data to determine whether the damage data was generated within a threshold period of time from the generation of the audio data .

At an operation of the UAV is determined as being compromised. For example the compromise module may generate the UAV compromise data indicating that the first and second navigation systems and respectively of the UAV determined different locations for the UAV . At the UAV transmits the alert data indicative of the compromised operation.

The UAVs participating in the mesh network may establish one or more communication links . The communication links may be maintained using one or more of the first wireless communication interface or the second wireless communication interface . The communications links may be long range short range. For example the long range links may have a working distance of at least 100 meters while the short range links may have a working distance of 100 meters or less.

The communication links between the UAVs in the mesh network may be encrypted. For example the communication links may use symmetric encryption keys public private key pairs digital certificates and so forth to maintain security of the link. The communication links may also utilize particular modulation schemes such as frequency hopping spread spectrum and so forth to further maintain security reduce interference and so forth.

The mesh network may be fully connected or partially connected. For example in a fully connected mesh network each UAV may be able to communicate with every other UAV directly. In another example the partially connected mesh network may comprise a given UAV establishing communication with those UAVs within direct communication range and relaying messages within the mesh network for a predetermined number of times. Continuing the example the mesh network may be configured to relay a message only five hops.

In other implementations other network topologies may be used. For example ring networks star networks tree networks hypertree networks and so forth.

In this illustration the compromise module has generated UAV compromise data indicating that the first UAV is or may be compromised. The first UAV sends inquiry data to one or more other UAVs in the mesh network . The inquiry data may request the other UAVs to respond with information about the first UAV making the request based on the sensors of the other UAVs . For example the inquiry data may send a request for current location data in effect asking where am I .

One or more of the other UAVs . . . U may respond with external data . Continuing the example the second UAV may return external data that includes estimated location data of the first UAV at the time of the request. The first UAV may use the external data to confirm the compromise or to reset onboard systems. For example the first UAV may use the external data as initial data for the second navigation system where the second navigation system is configured to navigate by way of dead reckoning from inputs such as compass direction time and speed relative to a known initial location.

In other implementations the UAVs in the mesh network may send status information to others in the network. The status information may include location data system data and so forth. Based on this status information the sensors on the UAV or both a UAV in the mesh network may generate alert data about another UAV . For example third UAV may detect that first UAV is flying at an airspeed above a threshold while below a minimum altitude. As a result the third UAV may generate alert data about the first UAV .

The alert data may be provided to one or more other devices such as the other UAVs in the mesh network including the compromised UAV the server and so forth. In some implementations the first UAV determined as being compromised may respond to the receipt of the alert data . For example the compromised UAV may receive the alert data for a previously undetected compromise and may enter the fail safe mode. Continuing the example the fail safe mode may direct the compromised UAV to maintain a hover and recalibrate its altimeter and airspeed measuring device.

At an uncompromised UAV is assisting the compromised UAV . The compromised UAV may be configured to enter a fail safe mode in which the compromised UAV responds to command data sent using a short range link such as the second wireless communication interface . The uncompromised UAV may send commands using the short range link guiding the compromised UAV to a safe location. This mode may be used in situations where the compromise involves a software or sensor malfunction and not flight hardware such as rotors .

In this illustration a first signal source is overhead such as a navigational satellite. The first signal source may generate a first signal . Continuing the example the navigational satellite may emit a navigational signal. A second signal source is on or near the ground and emits a second signal . For example a terrestrial radio transmitter may emit the second signal . The second signal may be intentionally emitted with the intent to compromise the UAV or may be inadvertently transmitted such as due to a malfunction of the terrestrial radio transmitter.

The UAV generates signal direction data indicating the direction of one or more of the first signal or the second signal . For example the UAV may be able to receive both signals simultaneously and determine the first signal comes from above and to the right while the second signal comes from below and to the left of the UAV . In other scenarios the second signal may overwhelm the first signal such that only the second signal is detected by the UAV .

The compromise module may access source data and generate an expected location for the first signal source . Based on the expected location the compromise module may generate an expected direction. For example the source data may comprise data indicating that signals from navigational satellites are only proper when received from overhead and thus the expected direction is overhead. A difference thus is present between the direction of the second signal coming from below and the expected direction which is overhead. As a result the compromise module may generate UAV compromise data . Responsive to the UAV compromise data one or more remedial actions may be taken such as described in this disclosure.

Block establishes communication with a mesh network comprising a plurality of other UAVs U . For example the first UAV may establish encrypted Wi Fi connections with other UAVs .

Block generates first location data of the first UAV using a first navigation system onboard the first UAV . As described above the first location data indicates a first location of the first UAV . In some implementations the location data may include latitude longitude altitude heading speed and so forth. For example the first navigation system may comprise a satellite navigation receiver.

Block receives external data from one or more of the plurality of other UAVs U in the mesh network . For example the external data may comprise status information from other UAVs information about the first UAV as determined by the other UAVs and so forth.

As described above the external data may comprise one or more of third location data of one of the plurality of other UAVs U fourth location data of the first UAV as generated by the one of the plurality of other UAVs U a bearing between the first UAV and the one of the plurality of other UAVs U or a distance between the first UAV and the one of the plurality of other UAVs U . For example the external data may comprise information from the third UAV indicating the current location of the third UAV and the bearing and distance of the third UAV relative to the first UAV . By using the external data the first UAV may compare or replace the location data from the onboard navigation systems and with that of an external device.

Block generates second location data using a second navigation system . The second location data indicates a second location of the first UAV . For example the second navigation system may use dead reckoning to determine position.

Block determines that the first location data differs from the second location data by a threshold value. For example the threshold value may comprise 1 km and the two locations may differ by 1.5 km.

Block determines a direction relative to the first UAV of a signal. For example the directional array may determine a direction of a first signal received from a first signal source such as a navigation satellite. The first signal may be intended for use by the first navigation system .

Block accesses source data indicative of an expected location of a source of the signal. For example the expected location may be above the first UAV . In some implementations the expected location may be a direction indicating a particular compass heading and altitude or angle to the current location of the first signal source .

Block determines an expected direction of the signal. The expected direction may be determined based on one or more of the first location data the second location data time or the source data . For example the expected direction of the navigational signal may be a bearing and altitude of the navigation satellite as it appears in the sky given the current location of the first UAV as indicated in the location data and the almanac and ephemeris data of that satellite.

Block determines a difference between the direction and the expected direction. Continuing the example the satellite may be expected to be above the first UAV but the signal source may be below.

Block determines operation of the first UAV is compromised. For example responsive to distance between the first location data and the second location data exceeding the 1 km threshold value UAV compromise data may be generated.

In implementations where block is not omitted the determination may be based at least in part on the external data . For example where the external data indicates a third location data that disagrees with others the compromise may be determined.

In implementations where blocks are not omitted the determination may be based at least in part on the difference. For example the difference of receiving a satellite navigation signal from the unexpected direction of the ground may result in the first UAV deactivating the first navigation system .

Block transitions the first UAV to a fail safe mode. For example the fail safe mode may configure the first UAV to disregard one or more of command data from either onboard or as received from an external source the first location data or the second location data . In some implementations the fail safe mode may invoke other remedial actions. In some implementations block may be omitted.

Block transmits alert data to one or more of the UAVs in the mesh network the server or another device. The alert data may be indicative of one or more of the compromise of the first UAV last available location data of the first UAV status data of the first UAV and so forth.

Block receives command data from one of the plurality of other UAVs U . The command data may be configured to direct the first UAV to a landing site parking place safe location or other destination.

Block lands parks docks the first UAV using the command data . For example as depicted in the uncompromised UAV may control the compromised UAV by way of the short range link and guide it to the safe location.

In some implementations a block not depicted may direct one or more of the UAVs U to maintain surveillance of the first UAV . For example the UAVs U may overfly the first UAV hover above the first UAV and so forth. Surveillance may include but is not limited to acquisition of image data of the first UAV at the safe location.

Block establishes communication between a first UAV and one or more other UAVs U such as a second UAV . As described above the communication may comprise a mesh network between the UAVs .

Block accesses first parameter data associated with a first system of the first UAV . For example the first parameter data may indicate compromise information about one or more values indicative of one or more quantitative measurements of operation or performance of the first UAV . Continuing the example the first parameter data may comprise location data altitude speed heading data and so forth.

Block receives second parameter data from the second UAV . Continuing the example the second parameter data may comprise location data altitude speed heading data and so forth of the second UAV or of the first UAV as determined by the second UAV . For example the second UAV detects the first UAV with radar or lidar and determines a distance and direction of travel. Based on this information the second UAV may be able to determine the second parameter data of the first UAV .

Block compares the first parameter data with the second parameter data. For example the heading as reported by the first UAV may be compared with the heading of the first UAV as reported by the second UAV .

Block determines operation of the first UAV is compromised. For example based on the difference between the headings the first UAV may determine that one or more of the first navigation system the second navigation system or one of the sensors such as the compass are compromised.

Other parameters may be used to determine compromise. For example the first parameter data comprises first location data indicative of a first location of the first UAV . The first location data may be generated using a satellite based navigation system such as GPS of the first navigation system . The second parameter data may comprise second location data indicative of a second location of the first UAV as determined by the second UAV . For example as described above the second UAV may use its known position in conjunction with radar data to determine the location of the first UAV . The determination that operation of the first UAV is compromised may be responsive to a determination that the first location is different from the second location by a threshold distance. For example threshold distance may comprise 50 meters and the first location and the second location may diverge by 200 meters indicating a compromise of the satellite based navigation system.

In another example the first parameter data may comprise altitude data indicative of an altitude of the first UAV . The second parameter data may comprise altitude data indicative of an altitude of the second UAV operating proximate to the first UAV . For example the second UAV may be configured to approach the first UAV to a predetermined standoff distance and follow at the same altitude. The determination that operation of the first UAV is compromised may be responsive to a determination that the first altitude data is different from the second altitude data by a threshold altitude. For example a deviation of more than 3 meters in altitude may be indicative of a compromise.

In yet another example the first parameter data may comprise first heading data indicative of a first direction toward which the first UAV is moving. For example the first heading data may be obtained from the compass derived from the first navigation system such as GPS and so forth. The second parameter data may comprise second heading data indicative of a second direction toward which the first UAV is moving as determined by the second UAV . The determination that operation of the first UAV is compromised may be responsive to a determination that the first direction is different from the second direction by a threshold amount. For example a deviation of more than 5 degrees in heading may be indicative of a compromise.

As described above such as with regard to direction of a received signal may be used to determine compromise. For example the first parameter data may comprise data indicative of a first direction of a signal received by the first UAV . The second parameter data may comprise an expected direction of the signal. The determination that operation of the first UAV is compromised may be responsive to a determination that the first direction is different from the expected direction by a threshold amount. For example the expected direction may be overhead or bearing 20 degrees altitude 47 degrees while the direction as actually received may be below or bearing 195 degrees altitude 87 degrees indicating a compromise where the threshold either requires the same side of the UAV or within 10 degrees of the expected direction.

In another example the first parameter data may comprise metric data representative of one or more metrics of the first UAV . For example the one or more metrics are indicative of at least one of processor usage memory usage input output interface I O usage and so forth. The second parameter data is indicative of a threshold value. For example other UAVs U in the mesh network may provide data indicating a maximum of one or more of their metrics that may be used to set the threshold value. The determination that operation of the first UAV is compromised may be responsive to a determination that one or more of the metrics are equal to or greater than the threshold value. For example the other UAVs U in the mesh network may be experiencing a maximum 5 second average of processor usage of 87 which may be used as the threshold value. Should the processor usage of the first UAV exceed this value it may be determined to be compromised.

Block transmits alert data . The alert data may be transmitted to or received by one or more of the UAVs in the mesh network the server or another device. The alert data may be indicative of one or more of the compromise of the first UAV last available location data of the first UAV status data of the first UAV and so forth.

Block performs one or more remedial actions. For example the compromised first UAV may be directed to change course and fly a particular compass heading while the second UAV follows and gathers additional parameter data to provide a check on the heading traveled. In another example the first UAV may assume a hover instead of lateral flight and during the hover may check that the sensors such as an airspeed indicator match the readings expected to be encountered while in a hover. The sensors may then be recalibrated or adjusted based on the data acquired and additional checks performed by the compromise module to determine if the compromise has been cleared and normal operation may resume. Should the compromise continue the first UAV may be directed to a safe location such as by receiving command data from another UAV as described previously.

As described above with regard to the compromised first UAV may transition to a fail safe mode such as under the control of the fail safe module and may be configured to receive command data from one or more of the second UAV or a third UAV . Responsive to the command data the first UAV may be directed by the second UAV to a designated location such as a landing zone repair facility or the original destination to deliver a payload.

In some implementations the compromised first UAV may transition to a fail safe mode such as under the control of the fail safe module . The remedial action may comprise a reset one or more systems of the first UAV that are associated with the compromised operation. For example the fail safe mode may direct the first UAV to enter a hover land park or receive command data from another UAV U . While in the fail safe mode the system associated with the compromised operation may be powered off may be power cycled off and then on may be re initialized and so forth. For example at least a portion of the contents of the memory may be erased or the data stored therein otherwise destroyed or rendered unreadable. In some situations this reset or other remediation may be sufficient to clear the compromise. The first UAV may then transition from the fail safe mode back to the operating mode. If the compromise recurs the compromise module may initiate another remedial action.

In situations where the compromise may result in a loss of control or other event in which the UAV may come into contact with another object the remedial action may include performing one or more the following activating an airbag deploying foam deploying a parachute or deploying a bumper . For example loss of functionality of a predetermined number of rotors may result in deployment of a parachute and activation of an airbag prior to impact with the ground .

In some implementations the remedial actions may be configured to disable the UAV . For example a first UAV which has been malicious redirected or stolen may be designed to self disable such that it is non functional. For example upon determination that the operation of the first UAV is compromised one or more circuits in the first UAV may be rendered inoperable by providing electrical current above a predetermined level to one or more circuits of the first UAV . Continuing the example at 1 meter from the ground the first UAV may electrically overload the processor the memory and so forth.

Block receives a signal with the directional array . For example one or more of the directional antennas having gain overhead relative to the first UAV may receive the signal.

Block determines a direction of the signal. Continuing the example given that the signal is received by the directional antenna having a known field of view or gain pattern directed upward the direction expressed in the signal direction data may be determined as overhead .

Block accesses source data indicative of an expected location of a source of the signal. For example the source data may indicate that the signal associated with satellite navigation should be received from an expected location of overhead . In another example the expected location may be determined based on the current location data and information associated with the signal source such as almanac and ephemeris data associated with a navigational satellite. With this example the expected location may be heading 47 degrees altitude 77 degrees . As described above the source data may comprise one or more of almanac data received from a satellite navigation system ephemeris data received from the satellite navigation system stored coordinates associated with the source wherein the source is fixed relative position data indicating the source is expected to be above or below and so forth.

Based at least in part on one or more of the location data or the source data block determines an expected direction of the signal. Continuing the example the expected direction may be overhead or the expected direction may be towards the navigational satellite.

In some implementations the source of the signal may be another UAV U . The expected location may be that of location data of the other UAV U . For example the signal may comprise a transmission of external data from the second UAV . The external data may comprise the second location data of the second UAV . The first UAV may use the second location data and the first location data to determine the expected location of the second UAV with respect to the first UAV . For example the data may indicate that the second UAV should be to the right of the first UAV . In this fashion the UAVs in the mesh network may check one another using the external data using not only the information contained in the external data but the location of the origin of the signal transmitting the external data .

Block determines a difference between the direction and the expected direction. For example the direction may be below and the expected direction may be overhead .

Block transmits alert data . The alert data may be transmitted to or received by one or more of the UAVs in the mesh network the server or another device. The alert data may be indicative of one or more of the compromise of the first UAV last available location data of the first UAV status data of the first UAV and so forth.

Block performs one or more remedial actions. The remedial actions may comprise those described above with regard to the following or a combination thereof. For example the compromised UAV may receive command data from the second UAV to operate it such as directing it to a safe location.

In one implementation the remedial action may include receiving from a second UAV data indicative of a second difference between the direction and the expected direction of the signal as received at the second UAV . In this implementation the second UAV in the mesh network attempts to determine if it detects the signal and whether the signal is coming from the expected direction. The determination that the first UAV is compromised may be based at least in part on the data indicative of the second difference as received from the second UAV . For example the second UAV may provide confirmation that the signal was received from that unexpected direction indicating a compromise.

As described above the first UAV may be equipped with a second navigation system . The second navigation system may be configured to perform dead reckoning navigation to determine a location relative to an initial location based on time heading speed and so forth. In the event of a compromise of the first navigation system the first location data from the first navigation system may be disregarded. The second UAV may provide second location data to the first UAV . The first UAV may initialize the second navigation system using the second location data as the initial location. The second navigation system using dead reckoning may then be used to direct the first UAV to a predetermined location such as a safe location. The second navigation system may comprise one or more of a compass a clock or timer a speed measuring device an altimeter or another device. The speed measuring device may comprise a ground sensing radar pitot tube system speedometer measuring revolutions of a wheel anemometer and so forth.

The processes discussed herein may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. In the context of software the described operations represent computer executable instructions stored on one or more computer readable storage media that when executed by one or more processors perform the recited operations. Generally computer executable instructions include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types. Those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that certain steps or operations illustrated in the figures above may be eliminated combined or performed in an alternate order. Any steps or operations may be performed serially or in parallel. Furthermore the order in which the operations are described is not intended to be construed as a limitation.

Embodiments may be provided as a software program or computer program product including a non transitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions in compressed or uncompressed form that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes or methods described herein. The computer readable storage medium may be one or more of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium and so forth. For example the computer readable storage media may include but is not limited to hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs erasable programmable ROMs EPROMs electrically erasable programmable ROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of physical media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Further embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a transitory machine readable signal in compressed or uncompressed form . Examples of transitory machine readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or unmodulated include but are not limited to signals that a computer system or machine hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals transferred by one or more networks. For example the transitory machine readable signal may comprise transmission of software by the Internet.

Separate instances of these programs can be executed on or distributed across any number of separate computer systems. Thus although certain steps have been described as being performed by certain devices software programs processes or entities this need not be the case and a variety of alternative implementations will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of devices environments and situations. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claims.

