---

title: Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists
abstract: 

as well as pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, that are useful for treating aldosterone-mediated diseases. The invention furthermore relates to processes for preparing compounds of the Formula I, to their use for the therapy and prophylaxis of the abovementioned diseases and for preparing pharmaceuticals for this purpose, and to pharmaceutical compositions which comprise compounds of the Formula I.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09403807&OS=09403807&RS=09403807
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 09403807
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141202
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. Ser. No. 13 979 875 filed Jul. 16 2013 now pending which is a National Stage application of International Patent Application No. PCT CN2012 070597 filed Jan. 19 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 434 543 filed Jan. 20 2011.

The Mineralocorticoid Receptor MR is a nuclear hormone receptor that is activated by aldosterone and regulates the expression of many genes involved in electrolyte homeostasis and cardiovascular disease. Increased circulating aldosterone increases blood pressure through its effects on natriuresis with potentially additional effects on the brain heart and vasculature. In addition hyperaldosteronism have been linked to many pathophysiological processes resulting in renal and cardiovascular disease. While hyperaldosteronism is commonly caused by aldosterone producing adenomas resistant hypertensive patients frequently suffer from increased aldosterone levels often termed as Aldosterone Breakthrough as a result of increases in serum potassium or residual AT1R activity. Hyperaldosteronism and aldosterone breakthrough typically results in increased MR activity and MR antagonists have been shown to be effective as anti hypertensive agents and also in the treatment of heart failure and primary hyperaldosteronism.

In addition in visceral tissues such as the kidney and the gut MR regulates sodium retention potassium excretion and water balance in response to aldosterone. MR expression in the brain also appears to play a role in the control of neuronal excitability in the negative feedback regulation of the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis and in the cognitive aspects of behavioral performance Castren et al. J. of Neuroendocrinology 3 461 66 1993 .

Eplerenone and spironolactone are two MR antagonists that have been shown to be efficacious in treating cardiovascular disease particularly hypertension and heart failure RALES Investigators 1999 The effect of spironolactone on morbidity and mortality in patients with severe heart failure N. Engl. J. Med. 1999 341 10 709 717 Pitt B et al. EPHESUS investigator 2003 Eplerenone a selective aldosterone blocker in patients with left ventricular dysfunction after myocardial infarction N. Engl. J. Med. 348 14 1309 1321 Funder J W. 2010 Eplerenone in chronic renal disease the EVALUATE trial Hypertens. Res. 33 6 539 40. Moreover multiple studies have shown that treatment with spironolactone or eplerenone significantly lower systolic blood pressure in mild moderate obese systolic PHA and resistant hypertensive patients Calhoun D A et al. 2008 Effectiveness of the selective aldosterone blocker eplerenone in patients with resistant hypertension J. Am. Soc. Hypertens. 2008 November December 2 6 462 8 Huang B S et al. 2010 Central neuronal activation and pressor responses induced by circulating ANG II role of the brain aldosterone ouabain pathway Am. J. Physiol. Heart. Circ. Physiol. 2 H422 30 The RALES Investigators. 1996 Effectiveness of spironolactone added to an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and a loop diuretic for severe chronic congestive heart failure The Randomized Aldactone Evaluation Study RALES Am. J. Cardiol. 1996 78 902 907 Pitt B et al. EPHESUS Investigators Serum potassium and clinical outcomes in the Eplerenone Post Acute Myocardial Infarction Heart Failure Efficacy and Survival Study EPHESUS Circulation 2008 Oct. 14 118 16 1643 50 Bomback A S et al. 2009 Low dose spironolactone added to long term ACE inhibitor therapy reduces blood pressure and urinary albumin excretion in obese patients with hypertensive target organ damage Clin. Nephrol. 72 6 449 56 Williams J S Hypertension spironolactone and resistant hypertension Nat. Rev. Endocrinol. 2010 May 6 5 248 50 Nishizaka M K et al. The role of aldosterone antagonists in the management of resistant hypertension. Curr Hypertens Rep. 2005 October 7 5 343 7. Review Gaddam K et al. 2010 Rapid reversal of left ventricular hypertrophy and intracardiac volume overload in patients with resistant hypertension and hyperaldosteronism a prospective clinical study Hypertension 55 5 1137 42 Zannad F et al. 2010 Rationale and design of the Eplerenone in Mild Patients Hospitalization And Survival Study in Heart Failure EMPHASIS HF Eur. J. Heart Fail. 12 6 617 22 .

Evidence in preclinical models also suggest that MR antagonists would be efficacious in treating the metabolic syndrome and atherosclerosis Takai S. et al 2005 Eplerenone inhibits atherosclerosis in nonhuman primates. Hypertension. 46 5 1135 9 Tirosh A. et al. GK. 2010 Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and the metabolic syndrome. Curr Hypertens Rep. 2010 August 12 4 252 7 .

Also published PCT application WO 2002 17895 disclosed that aldosterone antagonists are useful in the treatment of subjects suffering from one or more cognitive dysfunctions including but not limited to psychoses cognitive disorders such as memory disturbances mood disorders such as depression and bipolar disorder anxiety disorders and personality disorders.

Elevation in aldosterone levels or excess stimulation of mineralocorticoid receptors is linked to several physiological disorders or pathologic disease states including Conn s Syndrome primary and secondary hyperaldosteronism increased sodium retention increased magnesium and potassium excretion diuresis increased water retention hypertension isolated systolic and combined systolic diastolic arrhythmias myocardial fibrosis myocardial infarction Bartter s Syndrome and disorders associated with excess catecholamine levels. Hadley M. E. ENDOCRINOLOGY 2Ed. pp. 366 81 1988 and Brilla et al. Journal of Molecular and Cellular Cardiology 25 5 pp. 563 75 1993 . Compounds and or pharmaceutical compositions which act as MR antagonists should be of value in the treatment of any of the above conditions.

Despite significant therapeutic advances in the treatment of hypertension and heart failure the current standard of care is suboptimal and there is a clear unmet medical need for additional therapeutic pharmacological interventions. This invention addresses those needs by providing compounds compositions and methods for the treatment or prevention of hypertension heart failure other cardiovascular disorders and other aldosterone disorders.

The present invention relates to compounds which have Mineralocorticoid Receptor MR antagonist activity which are valuable pharmaceutically active compounds for the therapy and prophylaxis of diseases for example for treating aldosterone mediated disorders including cardiovascular disease. The present invention is directed to compounds of the Formula I

Where said alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one to three groups selected from R 

where said alkyl cycloalkyl aryl heterocyclyl or heteroaryl may be optionally substituted with one to three halo OR or C Calkyl substituents 

Each Ris independently H OR CN aryl heteroaryl C O OR C O NRR C Calkyl CF or C Ccycloalkyl where said alkyl cycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl may be optionally substituted with one to three halo OR or CF 

where said alkyl cycloalkyl aryl heterocyclyl or heteroaryl may be optionally substituted with one to three halo OR or C Calkyl substituents 

Each Ris independently H aryl heteroaryl C O NRR C Calkyl CF or C Ccycloalkyl where said alkyl cycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl may be optionally substituted with one to three halo OR or CF 

In another embodiment the instant invention is related to a compound of Formula I as illustrated by Formula II 

In another embodiment the instant invention is related to a compound of Formula I as illustrated by Formula IV 

Each Ris independently H OR CN C O OR C O NRR C Calkyl CF or C Ccycloalkyl where said alkyl cycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl may be optionally substituted with one to three halo OR or CF 

As used herein except where noted alkyl is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms. The term cycloalkyl means carbocycles containing no heteroatoms. Examples of cycloalkyl include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl decahydronaphthyl and the like. Commonly used abbreviations for alkyl groups are used throughout the specification e.g. methyl may be represented by conventional abbreviations including Me or CHor a symbol that is an extended bond without defined terminal group e.g. ethyl may be represented by Et or CHCH propyl may be represented by Pr or CHCHCH butyl may be represented by Bu or CHCHCHCH etc. Calkyl or C Calkyl for example means linear or branched chain alkyl groups including all isomers having the specified number of carbon atoms. Calkyl includes all of the hexyl alkyl and pentyl alkyl isomers as well as n iso sec and t butyl n and isopropyl ethyl and methyl. Calkyl means n iso sec and t butyl n and isopropyl ethyl and methyl. If no number is specified 1 10 carbon atoms are intended for linear or branched alkyl groups. The phrase C Calkyl said alkyl is optionally substituted with one to three groups refers to alkyl groups having 0 1 2 or 3 substituents attached to one or more carbon atoms. For example a substituted butyl group Calkyl could have 1 2 or 3 substituents on one two three or four of the carbon atoms of the butyl group. Also the group CF for example is a methyl group having three fluorine atoms attached the same carbon atom.

 Alkenyl unless otherwise indicated means carbon chains which contain at least one carbon carbon double bond and which may be linear or branched or combinations thereof. Examples of alkenyl include but are not limited to vinyl allyl isopropenyl pentenyl hexenyl heptenyl 1 propenyl 2 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl and the like. The term cycloalkenyl means carbocycles containing no heteroatoms having at least one carbon carbon double bond.

The term alkynyl refers to a hydrocarbon radical straight branched or cyclic containing from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and at least one carbon to carbon triple bond. Up to three carbon carbon triple bonds may be present. Thus C Calkynyl means an alkynyl radical having from 2 to 6 carbon atoms. Alkynyl groups include ethynyl propynyl butynyl 3 methylbutynyl and so on. The straight branched or cyclic portion of the alkynyl group may contain triple bonds and may be substituted if a substituted alkynyl group is indicated.

 Aryl unless otherwise indicated means mono and bicyclic aromatic rings containing 6 12 carbon atoms. Examples of aryl include but are not limited to phenyl naphthyl indenyl and the like. Aryl also includes monocyclic rings fused to an aryl group. Examples include tetrahydronaphthyl indanyl and the like. The preferred aryl is phenyl.

 Heteroaryl unless otherwise indicated means a mono or bicyclic aromatic ring or ring system having 5 to 10 atoms and containing at least one heteroatom selected from O S and N. Examples include but are not limited to pyrrolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrazolyl pyridyl pyridinyl oxazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl thiazolyl imidazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl furanyl triazinyl thienyl pyrimidyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl pyrazinyl and the like. Heteroaryl also includes aromatic heterocyclic groups fused to heterocycles that are non aromatic or partially aromatic and aromatic heterocyclic groups fused to cycloalkyl rings. Additional examples of heteroaryls include but are not limited to dihydrofuranyl indazolyl thienopyrazolyl imidazopyridazinyl pyrazolopyrazolyl pyrazolopyridinyl imidazopyridinyl and imidazothiazolyl. Heteroaryl also includes such groups in charged form e.g. pyridinium.

 Heterocyclyl unless otherwise indicated means a 4 5 or 6 membered monocyclic saturated ring containing at least one heteroatom selected from N S and O in which the point of attachment may be carbon or nitrogen. Examples of heterocyclyl include but are not limited to azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl imidazolidinyl 2 3 dihydrofuro 2 3 b pyridyl benzoxazinyl and the like. The term also includes partially unsaturated monocyclic rings that are not aromatic such as 2 or 4 pyridones attached through the nitrogen or N substituted 1H 3H pyrimidine 2 4 diones N substituted uracils . Heterocyclyl moreover includes such moieties in charged form e.g. piperidinium.

 Halogen or halo unless otherwise indicated includes fluorine fluoro chlorine chloro bromine bromo and iodine iodo . In one embodiment halo is fluorine or chlorine.

By oxo is meant the functional group O which is an oxygen atom connected to the molecule via a double bond such as for example 1 C O that is a carbonyl group 2 S O that is a sulfoxide group and 3 N O that is an N oxide group such as pyridyl N oxide.

Unless expressly stated to the contrary substitution by a named substituent is permitted on any atom in a ring e.g. aryl a heteroaryl ring or a saturated heterocyclic ring provided such ring substitution is chemically allowed and results in a stable compound. A stable compound is a compound which can be prepared and isolated and whose structure and properties remain or can be caused to remain essentially unchanged for a period of time sufficient to allow use of the compound for the purposes described herein e.g. therapeutic or prophylactic administration to a subject .

Reference to the compounds of structural Formula I includes the compounds of other generic structural Formulae that fall within the scope of Formula I including but not limited to Formula II Formula III and or Formula IV.

When any variable e.g. R R R etc. occurs more than one time in any constituent or in Formula I its definition on each occurrence is independent of its definition at every other occurrence. Also combinations of substituents and or variables are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds.

Under standard nomenclature used throughout this disclosure the terminal portion of the designated side chain is described first followed by the adjacent functionality toward the point of attachment. For example a Calkylcarbonylamino Calkyl substituent is equivalent to

In choosing compounds of the present invention one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the various substituents i.e. R R R R etc. are to be chosen in conformity with well known principles of chemical structure connectivity and stability.

The term substituted shall be deemed to include multiple degrees of substitution by a named substituent. Where multiple substituent moieties are disclosed or claimed the substituted compound can be independently substituted by one or more of the disclosed or claimed substituent moieties singly or plurally. By independently substituted it is meant that the two or more substituents can be the same or different.

Where a substituent or variable has multiple definitions it is understood that the substituent or variable is defined as being selected from the group consisting of the indicated definitions.

Compounds of structural Formula I may contain one or more asymmetric centers and can thus occur as racemates and racemic mixtures single enantiomers diastereoisomeric mixtures and individual diastereoisomers. The present invention is meant to comprehend all such isomeric forms of the compounds of structural Formula I.

Compounds of structural Formula I may be separated into their individual diastereoisomers by for example fractional crystallization from a suitable solvent for example methanol or ethyl acetate or a mixture thereof or via chiral chromatography using an optically active stationary phase. Absolute stereochemistry may be determined by X ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing an asymmetric center of known absolute configuration.

Alternatively any stereoisomer or isomers of a compound of the general structural Formula I may be obtained by stereospecific synthesis using optically pure starting materials or reagents of known absolute configuration.

If desired racemic mixtures of the compounds may be separated so that the individual enantiomers are isolated. The separation can be carried out by methods well known in the art such as the coupling of a racemic mixture of compounds to an enantiomerically pure compound to form a diastereoisomeric mixture followed by separation of the individual diastereoisomers by standard methods such as fractional crystallization or chromatography. The coupling reaction is often the formation of salts using an enantiomerically pure acid or base. The diasteromeric derivatives may then be converted to the pure enantiomers by cleavage of the added chiral residue. The racemic mixture of the compounds can also be separated directly by chromatographic methods utilizing chiral stationary phases which methods are well known in the art.

For compounds described herein which contain olefinic double bonds unless specified otherwise they are meant to include both E and Z geometric isomers.

Some of the compounds described herein may exist as tautomers which have different points of attachment of hydrogen accompanied by one or more double bond shifts. For example a ketone and its enol form are keto enol tautomers. The individual tautomers as well as mixtures thereof are encompassed with compounds of the present invention.

In the compounds of structural Formula I the atoms may exhibit their natural isotopic abundances or one or more of the atoms may be artificially enriched in a particular isotope having the same atomic number but an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number predominately found in nature. The present invention is meant to include all suitable isotopic variations of the compounds of structural Formula I. For example different isotopic forms of hydrogen H include protium H and deuterium H also denoted as D . Protium is the predominant hydrogen isotope found in nature. Enriching for deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages such as increasing in vivo half life or reducing dosage requirements or may provide a compound useful as a standard for characterization of biological samples. Isotopically enriched compounds within structural Formula I can be prepared without undue experimentation by conventional techniques well known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the Schemes and Examples herein using appropriate isotopically enriched reagents and or intermediates.

The present invention includes all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the Formula I. Centers of asymmetry that are present in the compounds of Formula I can all independently of one another have S configuration or R configuration. The invention includes all possible enantiomers and diastereomers and mixtures of two or more stereoisomers for example mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers in all ratios. Thus enantiomers are a subject of the invention in enantiomerically pure form both as levorotatory and as dextrorotatory antipodes in the form of racemates and in the form of mixtures of the two enantiomers in all ratios. In the case of a cis trans isomerism the invention includes both the cis form and the trans form as well as mixtures of these forms in all ratios. The preparation of individual stereoisomers can be carried out if desired by separation of a mixture by customary methods for example by chromatography or crystallization by the use of stereochemically uniform starting materials for the synthesis or by stereoselective synthesis. Optionally a derivatization can be carried out before a separation of stereoisomers. The separation of a mixture of stereoisomers can be carried out at the stage of the compounds of the Formula I or at the stage of an intermediate during the synthesis. The present invention also includes all tautomeric forms of the compounds of Formula I.

The present invention includes all atropisomer forms of the compounds of Formula I. Atropisomers are stereoisomers resulting from hindered rotation about single bonds where the steric strain barrier to rotation is high enough to allow for the isolation of the conformers. Atropisomers display axial chirality. Separation of atropisomers is possibly by chiral resolution methods such as selective crystallization.

It will be understood that as used herein references to the compounds of structural Formula I are meant to also include the pharmaceutically acceptable salts and also salts that are not pharmaceutically acceptable when they are used as precursors to the free compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts or in other synthetic manipulations.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases or acids including inorganic or organic bases and inorganic or organic acids. Salts of basic compounds encompassed within the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refer to non toxic salts of the compounds of this invention which are generally prepared by reacting the free base with a suitable organic or inorganic acid. Representative salts of basic compounds of the present invention include but are not limited to the following acetate ascorbate benzenesulfonate benzoate bicarbonate bisulfate bitartrate borate bromide butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate camsylate carbonate chloride clavulanate citrate dihydrochloride edetate edisylate estolate esylate fumarate gluceptate gluconate glutamate glycollylarsanilate hexylresorcinate hydrabamine hydrobromide hydrochloride hydroxynaphthoate iodide isothionate lactate lactobionate laurate malate maleate mandelate mesylate methylbromide methylnitrate methylsulfate methanesulfonate mucate napsylate nitrate N methylglucamine ammonium salt oleate oxalate pamoate embonate palmitate pantothenate phosphate diphosphate polygalacturonate propionate salicylate stearate sulfate subacetate succinate tannate tartrate teoclate thiocyanate tosylate triethiodide valerate and the like. Furthermore where the compounds of the invention carry an acidic moiety suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof include but are not limited to salts derived from inorganic bases including aluminum ammonium calcium copper ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganic mangamous potassium sodium zinc and the like. Particularly preferred are the ammonium calcium magnesium potassium and sodium salts. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines cyclic amines dicyclohexyl amines and basic ion exchange resins such as arginine betaine caffeine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine diethylamine 2 diethylaminoethanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol ethanolamine ethylenediamine N ethylmorpholine N ethylpiperidine glucamine glucosamine histidine hydrabamine isopropylamine lysine methylglucamine morpholine piperazine piperidine polyamine resins procaine purines theobromine triethylamine trimethylamine tripropylamine tromethamine and the like.

Also in the case of a carboxylic acid COOH or alcohol group being present in the compounds of the present invention pharmaceutically acceptable esters of carboxylic acid derivatives such as methyl ethyl or pivaloyloxymethyl or acyl derivatives of alcohols such as O acetyl O pivaloyl O benzoyl and O aminoacyl can be employed. Included are those esters and acyl groups known in the art for modifying the solubility or hydrolysis characteristics for use as sustained release or prodrug formulations.

Solvates including but not limited to the ethyl acetate solvate and in particular the hydrates of the compounds of structural Formula I are included in the present invention as well.

If the compounds of Formula I simultaneously contain acidic and basic groups in the molecule the invention also includes in addition to the salt forms mentioned inner salts or betaines zwitterions . Salts can be obtained from the compounds of Formula I by customary methods which are known to the person skilled in the art for example by combination with an organic or inorganic acid or base in a solvent or dispersant or by anion exchange or cation exchange from other salts. The present invention also includes all salts of the compounds of Formula I which owing to low physiological compatibility are not directly suitable for use in pharmaceuticals but which can be used for example as intermediates for chemical reactions or for the preparation of physiologically acceptable salts. The terms physiologically acceptable salt s and pharmaceutically acceptable salt s are intended to have the same meaning and are used interchangeably herein.

In an embodiment each Ris independently H halo OR C Calkyl CR CN NRCOR NRSORor NH. In another embodiment each Ris independently H halo OR C Calkyl or CR CN. In further embodiment each Ris independently H or halo.

Where said alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one to three groups selected from R.

In another embodiment Ris 1 C Calkyl 2 CR C Ccycloalkyl 3 CR C O OR 4 CR C Calkenyl or 5 CR C Calkynyl where said alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl or alkynyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups selected from R. In a further embodiment Ris 1 C Calkyl 2 CR C Ccycloalkyl 3 CR C Calkenyl or 4 CR C Calkynyl where said alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl or alkynyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups selected from R. In another embodiment Ris C Calkyl.

In an embodiment Ris phenyl optionally substituted with one to three Rgroups. In a further embodiment Ris phenyl optionally substituted with one to three halo OR CF or C Calkyl groups.

where said alkyl and cycloalkyl may be optionally substituted with one to three halo OR or C Calkyl substituents.

In another embodiment Ris 1 NRS O R 2 C Calkyl 3 C Ccycloalkyl 4 C O OR 5 CR SOR 6 NRC O R 7 NRC O OR or 8 NR where said alkyl and cycloalkyl may be optionally substituted with one to three halo OR or C Calkyl substituents. In a further embodiment Ris 1 NRS O R 2 CR SOR or 3 NR. In another embodiment Ris NRS O R.

In an embodiment x is 0 1 2 or 3. In another embodiment x is 0 1 or 2. In a further embodiment x is 0 or 1.

The present invention also relates to processes for the preparation of the compounds of the Formula I which are described in the following and by which the compounds of the invention are obtainable.

The compounds of the Formula I according to the invention competitively antagonize the mineralocortoid receptor MR and they are therefore useful agents for the therapy and prophylaxis of disorders related to increased aldosterone levels. The ability for the compounds of the Formula I to antagonize MR can be examined for example in the activity assay described below.

One aspect of the invention that is of interest relates to a compound in accordance with formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for use in a method of treatment of the human or animal body by therapy.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest relates to a compound in accordance with formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for use as an anti hypertensive agent in a human or animal.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest is a method of treating cardiovascular disease heart failure hypertension atherosclerosis primary hyperaldosternoism or a related condition in a human patient in need of such treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest relates to a method of treating metabolic syndrome in a mammal in need of such treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest relates to a method of treating a physiological or pathologic disease selected from including Conn s Syndrome primary and secondary hyperaldosteronism increased sodium retention increased magnesium and potassium excretion diuresis increased water retention hypertension isolated systolic and combined systolic diastolic arrhythmias myocardial fibrosis myocardial infarction Bartter s Syndrome and disorders associated with excess catecholamine levels in a human patient in need of such treatment comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest is a method of treating renal failure in a human patient in need of such treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest is a method of treating hypertension including but not limited to essential hypertension resistant hypertension systolic hypertension pulmonary arterial hypertension and the like.

Additionally another aspect of the invention is a method of treating hypertension in an obese animal or human.

Additionally another aspect of the invention is a method of treating hypertension in a diabetic animal or human.

The compounds of the Formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be administered to animals preferably to mammals and in particular to humans as pharmaceuticals by themselves in mixtures with one another or in the form of pharmaceutical preparations. The term patient includes animals preferably mammals and especially humans who use the instant active agents for the prevention or treatment of a medical condition. Administering of the drug to the patient includes both self administration and administration to the patient by another person. The patient may be in need of treatment for an existing disease or medical condition or may desire prophylactic treatment to prevent or reduce the risk of said disease or medical condition.

A subject of the present invention therefore also are the compounds of the Formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts for use as pharmaceuticals their use for antagonizing mineralocorticoid receptors and in particular their use in the therapy and prophylaxis of the abovementioned syndromes as well as their use for preparing medicaments for these purposes.

The terms therapeutically effective or efficacious amount and similar descriptions such as an amount efficacious for treatment are intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue a system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. The terms prophylactically effective or efficacious amount and similar descriptions such as an amount efficacious for prevention are intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence of the biological or medical event that is sought to be prevented in a tissue a system animal or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. The dosage regimen utilizing a compound of the instant invention is selected in accordance with a variety of factors including type species age weight sex and medical condition of the patient the severity of the condition to be treated the potency of the compound chosen to be administered the route of administration and the renal and hepatic function of the patient. A consideration of these factors is well within the purview of the ordinarily skilled clinician for the purpose of determining the therapeutically effective or prophylactically effective dosage amount needed to prevent counter or arrest the progress of the condition. It is understood that a specific daily dosage amount can simultaneously be both a therapeutically effective amount e.g. for treatment of hypertension and a prophylactically effective amount e.g. for prevention of myocardial infarction.

Furthermore a subject of the present invention are pharmaceutical preparations or pharmaceutical compositions which comprise as active component an effective dose of at least one compound of the Formula I and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a customary pharmaceutically acceptable carrier i.e. one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carrier substances and or additives.

Thus a subject of the invention are for example said compound and its physiologically or pharmaceutically acceptable salts for use as a pharmaceutical pharmaceutical preparations which comprise as active component an effective dose of said compound and or a physiologically or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a customary pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and the uses of said compound and or a physiologically or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in the therapy or prophylaxis of the abovementioned syndromes as well as their use for preparing medicaments for these purposes.

The pharmaceuticals according to the invention can be administered orally for example in the form of pills tablets lacquered tablets sugar coated tablets granules hard and soft gelatin capsules aqueous alcoholic or oily solutions syrups emulsions or suspensions or rectally for example in the form of suppositories. Administration can also be carried out parenterally for example subcutaneously intramuscularly or intravenously in the form of solutions for injection or infusion. Other suitable administration forms are for example percutaneous or topical administration for example in the form of ointments tinctures sprays or transdermal therapeutic systems or the inhalative administration in the form of nasal sprays or aerosol mixtures or for example microcapsules implants or rods. The preferred administration form depends for example on the disease to be treated and on its severity.

The amount of active compound of the Formula I and or its physiologically or pharmaceutically acceptable salts in the pharmaceutical preparations normally is from 0.2 to 700 mg preferably from 1 to 500 mg per dose but depending on the type of the pharmaceutical preparation it can also be higher. The pharmaceutical preparations usually comprise 0.5 to 90 percent by weight of the compounds of the Formula I and or their physiologically or pharmaceutically acceptable salts. The preparation of the pharmaceutical preparations can be carried out in a manner known per se. For this purpose one or more compounds of the Formula I and or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts together with one or more solid or liquid pharmaceutical carrier substances and or additives or auxiliary substances and if desired in combination with other pharmaceutically active compounds having therapeutic or prophylactic action are brought into a suitable administration form or dosage form which can then be used as a pharmaceutical in human or veterinary medicine.

For the production of pills tablets sugar coated tablets and hard gelatin capsules it is possible to use for example lactose starch for example maize starch or starch derivatives talc stearic acid or its salts etc. Carriers for soft gelatin capsules and suppositories are for example fats waxes semisolid and liquid polyols natural or hardened oils etc. Suitable carriers for the preparation of solutions for example of solutions for injection or of emulsions or syrups are for example water physiologically sodium chloride solution alcohols such as ethanol glycerol polyols sucrose invert sugar glucose mannitol vegetable oils etc. It is also possible to lyophilize the compounds of the Formula I and their physiologically or pharmaceutically acceptable salts and to use the resulting lyophilisates for example for preparing preparations for injection or infusion. Suitable carriers for microcapsules implants or rods are for example copolymers of glycolic acid and lactic acid.

Besides the active compounds and carriers the pharmaceutical preparations can also contain customary additives for example fillers disintegrants binders lubricants wetting agents stabilizers emulsifiers dispersants preservatives sweeteners colorants flavorings aromatizers thickeners diluents buffer substances solvents solubilizers agents for achieving a depot effect salts for altering the osmotic pressure coating agents or antioxidants.

The dosage of the active compound of the Formula I to be administered and or of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof depends on the individual case and is as is customary to be adapted to the individual circumstances to achieve an optimum effect. Thus it depends on the nature and the severity of the disorder to be treated and also on the sex age weight and individual responsiveness of the human or animal to be treated on the efficacy and duration of action of the compounds used on whether the therapy is acute or chronic or prophylactic or on whether other active compounds are administered in addition to compounds of the Formula I. In general a daily dose of approximately 0.01 to 100 mg kg preferably 0.01 to 10 mg kg in particular 0.3 to 5 mg kg in each case mg per kg of bodyweight is appropriate for administration to an adult weighing approximately 75 kg in order to obtain the desired results. The daily dose can be administered in a single dose or in particular when larger amounts are administered be divided into several for example two three or four individual doses. In some cases depending on the individual response it may be necessary to deviate upwards or downwards from the given daily dose.

The compounds of the Formula I bind to the mineralocorticoid receptor and antagonize the biological effects of aldosterone and cortisol. On account of this property apart from use as pharmaceutically active compounds in human medicine and veterinary medicine they can also be employed as a scientific tool or as aid for biochemical investigations in which such an effect on the mineralocorticoid receptor is intended and also for diagnostic purposes for example in the in vitro diagnosis of cell samples or tissue samples. The compounds of the Formula I and salts thereof can furthermore be employed as already mentioned above as intermediates for the preparation of other pharmaceutically active compounds.

One or more additional pharmacologically active agents may be administered in combination with a compound of Formula I. An additional active agent or agents is intended to mean a pharmaceutically active agent or agents different from the compound of Formula I. Generally any suitable additional active agent or agents including but not limited to anti hypertensive agents anti atherosclerotic agents such as a lipid modifying compound anti diabetic agents and or anti obesity agents may be used in any combination with the compound of Formula I in a single dosage formulation a fixed dose drug combination or may be administered to the patient in one or more separate dosage formulations which allows for concurrent or sequential administration of the active agents co administration of the separate active agents .

The above mentioned compounds are also of use in combination with other pharmacologically active compounds. Additional active compounds that may be used in combination with the compounds of the instant invention either co administered or in a fixed combination include but are not limited to angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors e.g alacepril benazepril captopril ceronapril cilazapril delapril enalapril enalaprilat fosinopril imidapril lisinopril moveltipril perindopril quinapril ramipril spirapril temocapril or trandolapril angiotensin II receptor antagonists e.g. losartan valsartan candesartan olmesartan telmesartan neutral endopeptidase inhibitors e.g. thiorphan and phosphoramidon aldosterone antagonists renin inhibitors e.g. urea derivatives of di and tri peptides See U.S. Pat. No. 5 116 835 amino acids and derivatives U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 095 119 and 5 104 869 amino acid chains linked by non peptidic bonds U.S. Pat. No. 5 114 937 di and tri peptide derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 5 106 835 peptidyl amino diols U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 063 208 and 4 845 079 and peptidyl beta aminoacyl aminodiol carbamates U.S. Pat. No. 5 089 471 also a variety of other peptide analogs as disclosed in the following U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 071 837 5 064 965 5 063 207 5 036 054 5 036 053 5 034 512 and 4 894 437 and small molecule renin inhibitors including diol sulfonamides and sulfinyls U.S. Pat. No. 5 098 924 N morpholino derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 5 055 466 N heterocyclic alcohols U.S. Pat. No. 4 885 292 and pyrolimidazolones U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 451 also pepstatin derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 4 980 283 and fluoro and chloro derivatives of statone containing peptides U.S. Pat. No. 5 066 643 enalkrein RO 42 5892 A 65317 CP 80794 ES 1005 ES 8891 SQ 34017 aliskiren 2 S 4 S 5 S 7 S N 2 carbamoyl 2 methylpropyl 5 amino 4 hydroxy 2 7 diisopropyl 8 4 methoxy 3 3 methoxypropoxy phenyl octanamid hemifumarate SPP600 SPP630 and SPP635 endothelin receptor antagonists vasodilators calcium channel blockers e.g. amlodipine nifedipine veraparmil diltiazem gallopamil niludipine nimodipins nicardipine potassium channel activators e.g. nicorandil pinacidil cromakalim minoxidil aprilkalim loprazolam diuretics e.g. hydrochlorothiazide chlorthalidone furosemide sympatholitics beta adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. propranolol atenolol bisoprolol carvedilol metoprolol or metoprolol tartate alpha adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. doxazocin prazocin or alpha methyldopa central alpha adrenergic agonists peripheral vasodilators e.g. hydralazine lipid lowering agents e.g. niacin HMG Co A reductase inhibitors metabolic altering agents including insulin sensitizing agents and related compounds e.g. muraglitazar glipizide metformin rosiglitazone or with other drugs beneficial for the prevention or the treatment of the above mentioned diseases including nitroprusside and diazoxide.

Examples of other active ingredients that may be administered in combination with a compound of Formula I and either administered separately or in the same pharmaceutical composition include but are not limited to 

 a PPAR gamma agonists and partial agonists including both glitazones and non glitazones e.g. troglitazone pioglitazone englitazone MCC 555 rosiglitazone balaglitazone netoglitazone T 131 LY 300512 LY 818 and compounds disclosed in WO02 08188 WO2004 020408 and WO2004 020409.

 d dipeptidyl peptidase IV DPP 4 inhibitors such as sitagliptin saxagliptin vildagliptin and alogliptin 

 h agents which improve a patient s lipid profile such as i HMG CoA reductase inhibitors lovastatin simvastatin rosuvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin atorvastatin rivastatin itavastatin ZD 4522 and other statins ii bile acid sequestrants cholestyramine colestipol and dialkylaminoalkyl derivatives of a cross linked dextran iii niacin receptor agonists nicotinyl alcohol nicotinic acid or a salt thereof iv PPAR agonists such as fenofibric acid derivatives gemfibrozil clofibrate fenofibrate and bezafibrate v cholesterol absorption inhibitors such as ezetimibe vi acyl CoA cholesterol acyltransferase ACAT inhibitors such as avasimibe vii CETP inhibitors such as torcetrapib and viii phenolic antioxidants such as probucol 

 k anti obesity compounds such as fenfluramine dexfenfluramine phentiramine subitramine orlistat neuropeptide Y Y5 inhibitors MC4R agonists cannabinoid receptor 1 CB 1 antagonists inverse agonists e.g. rimonabant and taranabant and adrenergic receptor agonists 

 m agents intended for use in inflammatory conditions such as aspirin non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs glucocorticoids azulfidine and cyclooxygenase 2 Cox 2 selective inhibitors 

One or more additional active agents may be administered with the compounds described herein. The additional active agent or agents can be lipid modifying compounds or agents having other pharmaceutical activities or agents that have both lipid modifying effects and other pharmaceutical activities. Examples of additional active agents which may be employed include but are not limited to HMG CoA reductase inhibitors which include statins in their lactonized or dihydroxy open acid forms and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof including but not limited to lovastatin see U.S. Pat. No. 4 342 767 simvastatin see U.S. Pat. No. 4 444 784 dihydroxy open acid simvastatin particularly the ammonium or calcium salts thereof pravastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof see U.S. Pat. No. 4 346 227 fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof see U.S. Pat. No. 5 354 772 atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt thereof see U.S. Pat. No. 5 273 995 pitavastatin also referred to as NK 104 see PCT international publication number WO 97 23200 and rosuvastatin also known as CRESTOR see U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440 HMG CoA synthase inhibitors squalene epoxidase inhibitors squalene synthetase inhibitors also known as squalene synthase inhibitors acyl coenzyme A cholesterol acyltransferase ACAT inhibitors including selective inhibitors of ACAT 1 or ACAT 2 as well as dual inhibitors of ACAT 1 and 2 microsomal triglyceride transfer protein MTP inhibitors endothelial lipase inhibitors bile acid sequestrants LDL receptor inducers platelet aggregation inhibitors for example glycoprotein IIb IIIa fibrinogen receptor antagonists and aspirin human peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma PPAR gamma agonists including the compounds commonly referred to as glitazones for example pioglitazone and rosiglitazone and including those compounds included within the structural class known as thiazolidine diones as well as those PPAR gamma agonists outside the thiazolidine dione structural class PPAR alpha agonists such as clofibrate fenofibrate including micronized fenofibrate and gemfibrozil vitamin B also known as pyridoxine and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof such as the HCl salt vitamin B also known as cyanocobalamin folic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof such as the sodium salt and the methylglucamine salt anti oxidant vitamins such as vitamin C and E and beta carotene beta blockers diuretics e.g. chlorthalidone hydrochlorothiazide sympatholitics endothelin antagonists agents that enhance ABCA1 gene expression cholesteryl ester transfer protein CETP inhibiting compounds 5 lipoxygenase activating protein FLAP inhibiting compounds 5 lipoxygenase 5 LO inhibiting compounds farnesoid X receptor FXR ligands including both antagonists and agonists Liver X Receptor LXR alpha ligands LXR beta ligands bisphosphonate compounds such as alendronate sodium cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors such as rofecoxib and celecoxib and compounds that attenuate vascular inflammation.

The compounds of Formula I can be synthesized in accordance with the general schemes provided below where R R and Rare defined as above unless otherwise indicated taking into account the specific examples that are provided. Throughout the synthetic schemes and examples abbreviations are used with the following meanings unless otherwise indicated 

Reaction schemes A N illustrate the methods employed in the synthesis of the compounds of Formula I. All abbreviations are as defined above unless indicated otherwise. In the Schemes all substituents are as defined above in Formula I unless indicated otherwise.

Reaction scheme A illustrates a method of synthesis of compounds of type 2. In this method a phenylacetic acid derivative of type 1 is treated with a bromine source such as N bromosuccinimide or the like in the presence of a suitable initiator such as AIBN to afford an bromophenylacetate of type 2. The reaction is run in an inert solvent such as carbon tetrachloride or benzene at elevated temperatures between 70 C. and the boiling temperature of the solvent.

Reaction scheme B illustrates a method of synthesis of compounds of type 4. In this method a substituted indole or indazole of type 3 is treated with a suitable base such as sodium hydride in examples involving substituted indoles or cesium carbonate in examples involving substituted indazoles followed by reaction with electrophiles such as bromophenylacetates of type 2 to afford compounds of type 4. The reaction is performed in a polar aprotic solvent such as DMF or DMSO at temperatures between 0 C. and room temperature. The product is a compound of type 4 which can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme C illustrates a method for preparing a compound of type 6 by treating compounds of type 4a wherein R NO. In this method compound 4a is treated with a suitable catalyst such as Pt C Pd C can be utilized when compound 4a does not contain additional reactive functionality such as halogen substitution under a hydrogen atmosphere balloon pressure in a suitable solvent such as ethyl acetate or the like to afford an aminoindole of type 5. Alternatively the nitro group can be reduced by treating compounds of type 4a with tin II chloride in the presence of strong acid such as concentrated HCl or sulfuric acid in a protic solvent such as ethanol or the like at elevated temperatures between 50 C. and the boiling temperature of the solvent. The products of type 5 can be treated with ditertbutyl dicarbonate under basic conditions such as reaction conditions known as Schotten Baumen conditions. The product is a compound of type 6 which can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme D illustrates a method of synthesis of compounds of type 8. In this method substrates of type 6 are treated with a suitable base such as sodium hydride followed by reaction of the corresponding anion with electrophiles of type 7 to afford the desired product. Most conditions involve slow addition of solutions of 6 to a mixture containing the base prior to addition of the electrophile 7 . The reaction is run in a polar aprotic solvent such as DMF or the like at temperatures between 20 C. and 0 C. and the product of the reaction is a compound of type 8 which can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme E illustrates a method of synthesis of compounds of type 9. In this method compounds of type 8 are first treated under strongly acidic conditions such as trifluoroacetic acid or concentrated HCl to yield aminoindoles or aminoindazoles of type 5a which are subsequently reacted with a suitable electrophile source such as a sulfonyl chloride or an acyl halide or acyl anhydride in the presence of a suitable base such as 4 methylmorpholine or diisopropylethylamine or the like. The product of the reaction is a compound of type 9 which can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme F illustrates a method of synthesis of compounds of structural formula 12 via an organotransition metal catalyzed cross coupling reaction commonly referred to as the Suzuki reaction. In this method an aryl or heteroaryl compound of type 10 is reacted with a boronic acid 11 or boronate 12 coupling partner in the presence of a suitable palladium catalyst such as 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II or tetrakistriphenylphosphinepalladium 0 or the like and a base such as aqueous sodium carbonate or aqueous tribasic sodium phosphate or the like 1991 63 419 422 . The reaction is performed in an inert organic solvent such as a toluene EtOH mixture or dioxane at temperatures above rt for a period of 3 24 h. Recent advancements in the Suzuki reaction have allowed this type of transformation to be conducted in many cases at rt for example see 2000 122 4020 4028 and references cited therein . The product of the reaction is a compound of type 13 which can be elaborated to furnish other compounds of the present invention I as described in subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme G illustrates a method of synthesis of compounds of structural formula 15 following methods similar to those previously described in Scheme F. Compounds of type 15 that are derived from inputs of type 14 that contain additional functional groups can be elaborated to furnish other compounds of the present invention I .

Reaction scheme H illustrates a method of synthesis of compounds of structural formula 17. In this method compounds of type 16 can be hydrolyzed to carboxylic acids of type 17 using a variety of methods known to those skilled in organic synthesis. The product carboxylic acid of structural formula 17 can be used in a variety of methods known in organic synthesis to afford compounds of the present invention I .

Reaction scheme I illustrates the method of synthesis of compounds of structural formula 20. In the most general case compounds of type 18 are treated with an amine of type 19 to afford an amide of type 20. The amide bond coupling reaction illustrated in reaction scheme I is conducted in an appropriate inert solvent such as DMF DCM or the like and may be performed with a variety of reagents suitable for amide coupling reactions such as HATU EDC or PyBOP. Conditions for the amide bond coupling reaction shown in reaction Scheme I are known to those skilled in organic synthesis. Such modifications may include but are not limited to the use of basic reagents such as triethylamine DIPEA or NMM or the addition of an additive such as HOAt or HOBt. Alternatively 19 may be treated with an activated ester or acid chloride derivative of 18 which also affords 20. The amide bond coupling shown in reaction Scheme I is usually conducted at a temperatures between 0 C. and room temperature occasionally at elevated temperatures and the coupling reaction is conducted for periods of 1 to 24 hours. The product of the reaction is a compound of type 20 which can be elaborated to furnish other compounds of the present invention I as described in subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme J illustrates a method for the synthesis of compounds of type 22. In this method a primary amide of type 21 is treated with a dehydrating reagent such as cyanuric chloride or the like to generate a nitrile of type 22. The reaction is performed in an inert solvent such as DCM or DMF between 0 C. and room temperature. The product of the reaction is a compound of type 22 which can be elaborated to furnish other compounds of the present invention I as described in subsequent schemes.

Scheme K illustrates in the most generalized manner how compounds of type 23 can be elaborated to a variety of heterocyclic derivatives of structural formula 24 using known methods in organic synthesis. Specific examples of such transformations are shown in the Examples section.

Such transformations are described in 1 Joule J. A Mills K and Smith G. F. Heterocyclic Chemistry Chapman Hall 1995 3rd Edn. and references cited therein 2 Katritzky A. R. Rees C. W. Eds Comprehensive Heterocyclic Chemistry The Structure Reactions Synthesis and Uses of Heterocyclic Compounds Pergamon Press Oxford 1984 8v and references cited therein and 3 Comprehensive Heterocyclic Chemistry II Review of the Literature 1982 1995 The Structure Reactions Synthesis and Uses of Heterocyclic Compounds Pergamon Press New York 2nd Edn. 1996 11v and references cited therein. Comprehensive Heterocyclic Chemistry vol. 4 6 Pergamon Press New York 1984 and references therein .

Scheme L illustrates a method for the synthesis of compounds of type 26. In this method an ester of type 25 is treated with a strong reducing agent such as lithium borohydride or lithium aluminum hydride or the like in an etheral solvent such as THF or diethyl ether between 0 C. and room temperature. The product of the reaction is an alcohol of type 26 that can be elaborated to furnish other compounds of the present invention I as described in subsequent schemes.

Scheme M illustrates a method for the synthesis of compounds of type 28. In this method a cyanoester of type 27 is treated with an excess of reducing agent such as sodium borohydride in the presence of an inorganic accelerating agent such as cobalt II chloride to afford an amine intermediate not shown that undergoes intramolecular cyclization onto the ester moiety to yield a lactam of type 28. This product can be elaborated to furnish other compounds of the present invention I as described in subsequent schemes.

Scheme N illustrates the method for the resolution of a racemic compound of structural formula 29 in which the asterisked carbon is a center of chirality. Generally the latter or intermediates en route to their preparation may be resolved to afford enantiomerically pure compounds such as 30 and 31 by chiral stationary phase liquid chromatography techniques or other suitable methods known in organic synthesis.

The following examples are provided so that the invention might be more fully understood. Unless otherwise indicated the starting materials are commercially available. They should not be construed as limiting the invention in any way.

The following examples are provided to more fully illustrate the present invention and shall not be construed as limiting the scope in any manner. Unless stated otherwise 

Intermediates used in the synthesis of compounds of this invention can be prepared using the following procedures. In the Tables associated with the following Schemes compounds having mass spectral data were synthetically prepared.

Methyl 2 chloro 4 fluorophenylacetate 3.15 g 15.6 mmol N bromosuccinimide 2.77 g 15.6 mmol and AIBN 255 mg 1.56 mmol were suspended in benzene 50.0 mL and degassed via Nstream. The resulting mixture was heated to 80 C. for 12 h. After cooling to rt the mixture was partially concentrated in vacuo and partitioned between ether and water. The layers were separated and the organic layer was washed with water and brine. The organics were dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude oil was purified by by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 20 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 1a. HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.82 dd 1H J 6.0 8.8 Hz 7.17 dd 1H J 2.6 8.3 Hz 7.08 m 1H 5.88 s 1H 3.84 s 3H .

Following procedures similar to those described in Scheme i 1 the following additional compounds represented in Table i 1 can be prepared 

For i 1a Methyl bromo 2 4 dichlorophenyl acetate HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.75 d 1H J 8.6 Hz 7.42 s 1H 7.33 d 1H J 8.5 Hz 5.86 s 1H 3.83 s 3H .

For i 1b Methyl bromo 4 fluorophenyl acetate HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.58 m 2H 7.08 m 2H 5.38 s 1H 3.82 s 3H .

For i 1c Methyl bromo 4 chlorophenyl acetate HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.51 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.37 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 5.35 s 1H 3.82 s 3H .

For i 1d Methyl bromo 4 methoxyphenyl acetate HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.49 d 2H J 9.0 Hz 6.88 d 2H J 9.0 Hz 5.40 s 1H 3.76 s 3H 3.75 s 3H .

For i 1e Methyl bromo 4 bromophenyl acetate HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.53 d 2H J 8.6 Hz 7.45 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 5.33 s 1H 3.82 s 3H .

For i 1f Methyl bromo 3 5 difluorophenyl acetate HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.13 m 2H 6.84 m 1H 5.30 s 1H 3.84 s 3H .

For i 1g Methyl bromo 3 5 dichlorophenyl acetate HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.46 m 1H 7.20 m 2H 5.26 s 1H 3.84 s 3H .

In the Tables in the following Examples compounds having mass spectral data were synthetically prepared.

A solution of 4 nitroindole 6.89 g 42.5 mmol in DMF 20 mL was added dropwise to a stirred suspension of sodium hydride 1.70 g of a 60 wt wt dispersion in mineral oil 42.5 mmol in DMF 100 mL at 0 C. After 10 min a solution of i 1c 11.2 g 42.5 mmol in DMF 20 mL was added slowly dropwise and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 3 h. The reaction was quenched by addition of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride and extracted with ether. The combined organics were washed with water and brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude oil was purified by by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 20 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound 1. m z ES 345 MH IP C rating.

Following procedures similar to those described in Example 1 the following additional compounds represented in Tables 1 and 1A were prepared 

3 methyl 2 4 dichlorophenyl 4 nitro 1H indol 1 yl acetate HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.20 dd 1H J 4.6 7.9 Hz 7.72 d 1H J 8.2 Hz 7.53 m 1H 7.36 m 4H 7.22 m 1H 6.64 s 1H 3.88 s 3H . IP B rating.

4 methyl 3 bromophenyl 4 nitro 1H indol 1 yl acetate HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.21 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.66 d 1H J 8.3 Hz 7.60 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.52 s 1H 7.46 d 1H J 3.3 Hz 7.35 m 3H 7.27 d 1H J 7.9 Hz 6.29 s 1H 3.88 s 3H . IP C rating.

5 methyl 4 methoxyphenyl 4 nitro 1H indol 1 yl acetate HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.18 d 1H J 8.3 Hz 7.68 d 1H J 8.1 Hz 7.36 d 1H J 3.4 Hz 7.32 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.30 m 1H 7.28 d 1H J 3.3 Hz 6.98 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 6.26 s 1H 3.86 s 3H 3.85 s 3H . IP C rating.

8 ethyl 1 1 2 chloro 4 fluorophenyl 2 methoxy 2 oxoethyl 1H indole 4 carboxylate m z ES 390 MH IP C rating.

A solution of 1 8.28 g 24.0 mmol in ethyl acetate 240 mL was degassed at which point platinum on carbon 1.41 g of a 10 wt wt mixture 0.721 mmol was added and the resulting suspension was stirred under a hydrogen atmosphere balloon . After 3 h the reaction mixture was filtered through a short column of CELITE eluting with EtOAc. The combined organics were concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 2a. m z ES 315 MH .

Di tert butyl dicarbonate 5.24 g 24.0 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 2a 7.56 g 24.0 mmol in dioxane 60 mL and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate 15 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred at rt overnight at which point the reaction was partially concentrated in vacuo. The resulting mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and saturated aqueous ammonium chloride. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organics were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude oil was purified by by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 20 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound 2b m z ES 437 MNa .

Methanesulfonyl chloride 159 L 2.04 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 2b 320 mg 1.02 mmol and triethylamine 213 L 1.53 mmol in DCM 3 mL at rt. After 1 h the reaction mixture was poured into water and extracted with DCM. The combined organics were washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions to afford the title compound 17. m z ES 393 MH IP C rating.

Following procedures similar to those described above in Example 2 the following compound were prepared 

20 methyl 2 chloro 4 fluorophenyl 4 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 yl acetate m z ES 465 MH IP C rating.

Following procedures similar to those described in Example 2 the following additional compounds represented in Table 2 were prepared 

22 methyl 2 chloro 4 fluorophenyl 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylacetate m z ES 411 MH IP B rating.

A solution of 2b 10.0 g 24.1 mmol in DMF 20 mL was added via syringe pump 1.6 mL min to a stirred suspension of sodium hydride 964 mg of a 60 wt wt dispersion in mineral oil 24.1 mmol in DMF 60 mL at 0 C. After 15 min iodoethane 2.34 mL 28.9 mmol was added rapidly dropwise and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 2 h. The reaction was quenched by addition of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride and extracted with ether. The combined organics were washed with water and brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude oil was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 20 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound 3a. m z ES 465 MNa .

Trifluoroacetic acid 37.5 mL 487 mmol was added rapidly dropwise to a stirred solution of 3a 8.62 g 19.5 mmol in DCM 100 mL at 0 C. After 1 h the reaction was quenched by careful addition of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate followed by NaHCO s and extracted with ether. The organics were washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 3b. m z ES 343 MH .

Methanesulfonyl chloride 1.59 mL 20.4 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 3b 6.67 g 19.5 mmol and 4 methylmorpholine 2.78 mL 25.3 mmol in DCM 100 mL at 0 C. After 30 min an additional portion of methanesulfonyl chloride 0.80 mL 10.2 mmol was added. After 1 h the reaction mixture was partitioned between DCM and saturated aqueous ammonium chloride. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with DCM. The combined organics were washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 50 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound 25. m z ES 421 MH IP A rating

Enantiomers 25a and 25b were separated using preparative normal phase chiral HPLC. A solution of 25 in MeOH acetonitrile was injected onto a CHIRALCEL AS H available from Chiral Technologies Inc. Exton Pa. semi preparative 250 30 mm HPLC column eluting with 45 2 1 MeOH acetonitrile COwith a column temperature of 35 C. at 70 mL min with UV detection at 220 nm . The enantiomers were separated with the faster eluting enantiomer 25a having a retention time of 2.61 min and the slower eluting enantiomer 25b having a retention time of 3.13 min with the retention times derived from injection onto an analytical CHIRALCEL AS H HPLC column 4.6 250 mm 2.1 mL min 40 2 1 MeOH acetonitrile CO 35 C. . The separated fractions were concentrated to provide the enantiomers 25a and 25b. Under the separation conditions cited above the faster eluting R enantiomer 25a is preferred for making final products. For 25a m z ES 421 MH IP A rating. For 25b m z ES 421 MH IP B rating

Following procedures similar to those described above in Example 3 the following compound were prepared 

26 tert Butyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylbutanoate m z ES 463 MH IP B rating.

27 tert Butyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 cyano 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylpropanoate m z ES 496 MNa IP B rating.

Following procedures similar to those described above in Example 3 the following additional compounds were prepared 

28 Methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylpropanoate m z ES 407 MH IP B rating.

29 Methyl 2 2 4 dichlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylpropanoate m z ES 441 MH IP C rating.

30 Methyl 2 2 4 dichlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylbutanoate m z ES 455 MH IP B rating.

31 Methyl 2 2 chloro 4 fluorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylbutanoate m z ES 439 MH IP B rating.

32 Methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indazol 1 ylbutanoate m z ES 422 MH IP B rating.

33 Methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylpent 4 enoate m z ES 433 MH IP B rating.

34 Methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 yl 3 phenylpropanoate m z ES 483 MH IP B rating.

35 Dimethyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylbutanedioate m z ES 487 MNa IP A rating.

36 Methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 cyano 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylpropanoate m z ES 432 MH IP A rating.

37 Methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 methoxy 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylpropanoate m z ES 437 MH IP C rating.

38 Methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 cyclopropyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylpropanoate m z ES 469 MNa IP A rating.

Lithium hydroxide 484 mg 20.2 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 325a 850 mg 2.02 mmol in dioxane 16 mL and water 4 mL and the resulting mixture was heated to 70 C. for 3 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was poured into 1M HCl and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organics were washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 4a. m z ES 407 MH .

O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate 1.34 g 3.56 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 4a 967 mg 2.38 mmol and 4 methylmorpholine 523 L 4.75 mmol in DMF 12 mL . After 5 min methylamine 3.56 mL of a 2.0 M solution in methanol 7.13 mmol was added and the resulting mixture was allowed to stir at rt. After 3 h the reaction mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The layers were separated and the organics were washed with water and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 85 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound 39. m z ES 420 MH IP B rating.

Following procedures similar to those described above in Example 4 the following additional compounds represented in Table 4 were prepared 

41 R 2 4 chlorophenyl N cyclopropyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylbutanamide m z ES 446 MH IP B rating.

42 2 4 chlorophenyl N 2 methoxyethyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylbutanamide m z ES 464 MH IP C rating.

43 R N benzyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylbutanamide m z ES 496 MH IP C rating.

44 R 2 4 chlorophenyl N 1 methylethyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylbutanamide m z ES 448 MH IP B rating.

45 R N tert butyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylbutanamide m z ES 462 MH IP C rating.

46 2 4 chlorophenyl N ethyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylbutanamide m z ES 434 MH IP B rating.

47 R 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 yl N 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl butanamide m z ES 488 MH IP A rating.

48 2 4 chlorophenyl N 2 cyanoethyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylbutanamide m z ES 459 MH IP C rating.

49 2 4 chlorophenyl N 2 fluoroethyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylbutanamide m z ES 474 MNa IP B rating.

50 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 yl N 2 phenylethyl butanamide m z ES 532 MNa IP C rating.

51 2 4 chlorophenyl N cyanomethyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylbutanamide m z ES 467 MNa IP A rating.

52 methyl N 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylbutanoyl glycinate m z ES 478 MH IP B rating.

53 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 cyano N methyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylpropanamide m z ES 431 MH IP B rating.

54 N benzyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 cyano 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylpropanamide m z ES 507 MH IP B rating.

55 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 cyano 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 yl N 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl propanamide m z ES 499 MH IP B rating.

56 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 cyclopropyl N methyl 2 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylpropanamide m z ES 468 MNa IP B rating.

Cyanuric chloride 17.3 mg 0.094 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 40 38.0 mg 0.094 mmol in DMF 0.50 mL and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at rt for 3 h. The reaction mixture was poured into brine and the resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organics were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 50 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound 5a. m z ES 361 M CN IP A rating.

A mixture of 5a 30.0 mg 0.077 mmol hydroxylamine 156 L of a 50 wt wt aqueous solution 2.55 mmol and potassium carbonate 1.1 mg 7.7 mol in ethanol 1.2 mL was heated in a microwave reactor at 120 C. for 10 min. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting crude residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The layers were separated and the organics were washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 5b. m z ES 421 MH .

 Benzyltriazol 1 yloxy tris dimethylamino phosphonium hexafluorophosphate 37 mg 0.083 mmol was added to a mixture of 5b 35 mg 0.083 mmol acetic acid 4.8 L 0.083 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 29 L 0.166 mmol in acetonitrile 1.50 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred at rt for 30 sec then heated in a microwave reactor at 150 C. for 20 min. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was diluted with water and the mixture was purified by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions to afford the title compound 57. m z ES 445 MH IP A rating

Following procedures similar to those described above in Example 5 the following additional compounds represented in Table 5 were be prepared 

58 R N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 5 phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl propyl 1H indol 4 ylmethanesulfonamide m z ES 507 MH IP C rating.

59 N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 5 4 fluorophenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl propyl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide m z ES 525 MH IP A rating.

60 N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 5 4 chlorophenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl propyl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide m z ES 541 MH IP A rating.

61 R N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 5 4 methoxyphenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl propyl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide m z ES 537 MH IP A rating.

62 R N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 5 cyclopropyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl propyl 1H indol 4 ylmethanesulfonamide m z ES 471 MH IP A rating.

Compound 6a was prepared from compound 17 following procedures similar to those previously described in Example 4 step A.

N Hydroxybenzenecarboximidamide 49 mg 0.36 mmol was added to a stirred solution of compound 6a 90 mg 0.24 mmol N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride 91 mg 0.48 mmol 1 hydroxybenzotriazole 44 mg 0.29 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 50 L 0.29 mmol in DMF 2.4 mL . The reaction was allowed to stir at rt for 2 h at which time the reaction was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The layers were separated and the organic layer was washed with water and brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to a crude oil that was dissolved in toluene 2.0 mL . The resulting mixture was heated to 100 C. for 1 h at which time the reaction was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting crude residue was purified by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions to afford the title compound 63. m z ES 479 MH IP C rating.

Compound 64 was synthesized from compound 4a following procedures similar to those presented in Example 6 substituting imino phenyl methyl hydrazinium iodide for N hydrozybenzenecaroximidamide. m z ES 506 MH IP C rating.

Following procedures similar to those described above in Example 7 the following additional compounds represented in Table 7 were prepared 

65 R N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 5 methyl 4H 1 2 4 triazol 3 yl propyl 1H indol 4 ylmethanesulfonamide m z ES 444 MH IP B rating.

66 R N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 5 trifluoromethyl 4H 1 2 4 triazol 3 yl propyl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide m z ES 428 M CF IP B rating.

A solution of 4a 60 mg 0.147 mmol cyclopropylcarboxylic acid hydrazide 15.5 mg 0.155 mmol O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate 84 mg 0.221 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 77 L 0.442 mmol in DMF 1 mL was stirred at rt for 1.5 h. The reaction mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The layers were separated and the organics were washed with water and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford crude residue that was dissolved in THF 2 mL .

 Methoxycarbonylsulfamoyl triethylammonium hydroxide 105 mg 0.442 mmol was added and the resulting mixture was heated at 60 C. for 2 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting crude residue was purified by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions to afford the title compound 67. m z ES 471 MH IP B rating.

Following procedures similar to those described above in Example 8 the following additional compounds represented in Table 8 were prepared 

68 N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 5 methyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl propyl 1H indol 4 ylmethanesulfonamide m z ES 467 MNa IP B rating.

69 N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 5 trifluoromethyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl propyl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide m z ES 499 MNa IP B rating.

70 N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 5 phenyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl propyl 1H indol 4 ylmethanesulfonamide m z ES 529 MNa IP C rating.

71 N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 5 4 chlorophenyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl propyl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide m z ES 563 MNa IP A rating.

72 N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 5 4 fluorophenyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl propyl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide m z ES 547 MNa IP B rating.

73 N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 5 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 ylpropyl 1H indol 4 ylmethanesulfonamide m z ES 597 MNa IP B rating.

74 N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 5 4 methoxyphenyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl propyl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide m z ES 537 MH IP B rating.

75 N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 5 3 5 difluorophenyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl propyl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide m z ES 565 MNa IP C rating.

76 N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 cyano 1 5 phenyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl ethyl 1H indol 4 ylmethanesulfonamide m z ES 540 MNa IP B rating.

Compound 9a was prepared from compound 3a following procedures similar to those described in Example 4 step A substituting compound 3a for compound 3c. m z ES 429 MH .

Compound 9b was prepared from compound 9a following procedures similar to those described in Example 4 step B substituting compound 9a for compound 4a. m z ES 548 MH .

Dess Martin periodinane 46 mg 0.109 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 9b 40 mg 0.073 mmol in DCM 0.73 mL at 0 C. After 2 h the reaction was quenched by addition of saturated aqueous sodium thiosulfate and extracted with DCM. The combined organics were washed with water and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford crude residue that was dissolved in DCM 1 mL and added dropwise to a stirred solution in which triphenylphosphine 172 mg 0.657 mmol followed by triethylamine 31 L 0.220 mmol had been added to iodine 28 mg 0.110 mmol in DCM 1 mL at 0 C. The resulting mixture was warmed to rt and after 1 h quenched with saturated aqueous sodium thiosulfate. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate and the combined organics were washed with water and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford crude residue that was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 50 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound 9c. m z ES 528 MH .

Compound 77 was prepared from compound 9c in two steps following procedures described in Example 3 step B substituting compound 9c for compound 3a the product of which being converted to compound 77 following procedures described in Example 3 step C. m z ES 528 MNa IP C rating.

Compound 10a was prepared by initially reacting i 1i with 4 nitroindole following procedures as described in Example 1. The product of the reaction was reacted under conditions described in Example 2 step A followed by Example 2 step C to afford the title compound 10a. m z ES 437 MH .

 1 1 Bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 17 mg 0.24 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 10a 50 mg 0.114 mmol and 3 methoxyphenylboronic acid 21 mg 0.140 mmol in dioxane 0.6 mL and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate 0.125 mL at rt. The resulting solution was irradiated in a microwave reactor at 120 C. for 10 min. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was filtered through a short column of CELITE eluting with EtOAc. The resulting crude oil was purified by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions to afford the title compound 78. m z ES 465 MH IP C rating.

Following procedures similar to those described above in Example 10 the following additional compounds represented in Table 10 were prepared 

79 Methyl 2 chlorobiphenyl 3 yl 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 ylacetate m z ES 469 MH IP C rating.

80 Methyl 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 yl 2 trifluoromethoxy biphenyl 3 yl acetate m z ES 519 MH IP C rating.

81 Methyl 4 methylsulfonyl amino 1H indol 1 yl 4 trifluoromethoxy biphenyl 3 yl acetate m z ES 519 MH IP C rating.

Lithium borohydride 15 mg 0.713 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 25a 200 mg 0.475 mmol in THF 2.4 mL at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to rt overnight. The excess lithium borohydride was quenched by careful addition of 1M HCl and the resulting mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and brine. The layers were separated and the organic layer was dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 60 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound 82. m z ES 393 MH IP A rating

Following procedures similar to those described above in Example 11 compound 83 was prepared by substituting compound 25b for compound 25a. m z ES 393 MH IP B rating.

Enantiomers 36a and 36b were separated using preparative normal phase chiral HPLC. A solution of 36 in DCM MeOH acetonitrile was injected onto a CHIRALCEL OD H available from Chiral Technologies Inc. Exton Pa. semi preparative 250 30 mm HPLC column eluting with 40 2 1 MeOH acetonitrile COwith a column temperature of 35 C. at 70 mL min with UV detection at 230 nm . The enantiomers were separated with the faster eluting enantiomer 36a having a retention time of 2.33 min and the slower eluting enantiomer 36b having a retention time of 2.93 min with the retention times derived from injection onto an analytical CHIRALCEL OD H HPLC column 4.6 250 mm 2.4 mL min 40 2 1 MeOH acetonitrile CO 35 C. . The separated fractions were concentrated to provide the enantiomers 36a and 36b. Under the separation conditions cited above the slower eluting enantiomer 36b is preferred for making final products. For 36a m z ES 432 MH IP C rating For 36b m z ES 432 MH IP A rating.

Sodium borohydride 13 mg 0.347 mmol was added in several portions to a stirred solution of 36b 30 mg 0.069 mmol and cobalt II chloride hexahydrate 8.3 mg 0.035 mmol in methanol 0.35 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at rt overnight. The reaction was quenched by careful addition of 1M HCl and diluted with acetonitrile. The resulting solution was purified directly by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions to afford the title compound 84. m z ES 404 MH . IP B rating

Fuming sulphuric acid 105 mL was added dropwise to 4 fluoro 1 methyl 2 nitrobenzene 30 g 0.194 mol at 5 C. 0 C. and a mixture of fuming sulphuric acid 54 mL and fuming nitric acid 18 mL was added dropwise to it at 5 C. 0 C. over the period of 3 h. After complete addition the reaction mixture was stirred for 3 hours at ambient temperature. TLC showed complete conversion of starting material to the product. The reaction mixture was poured into ice and extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic layers was washed with water 600 mL sat. sodium bicarbonate 600 mL and brine 600 mL . It was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude product which was purified by silica gel column chromatography PE EA 20 1 to afford the title compound.

To a solution of 5 fluoro 2 methyl 1 3 dinitrobenzene 15 g 0.075 mol in N N dimethylformamide 300 mL was added dimethylformamide dimethylacetal 89 g 0.75 mol . The bright red reaction mixture was heated at 120 C. for 5 h then concentrated in vacuo to provide 18 g crude product which was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS m z 256.2 M H .

2 4 fluoro 2 6 dinitrophenyl N N dimethylethenamine 18 g 0.071 mol was dissolved in ethanol 1000 mL and charged with 10 palladium on carbon 2.0 g . The mixture was hydrogenated at room temperature overnight. The mixture was filtrated through celite and washed with ethanol. The filtrate was combined and evaporated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel flash chromatography PE EA 2 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 151.2 M H .

A mixture of 6 fluoro 1H indol 4 amine 5 g 0.033 mol 4 chlorobenzyl chloride 5.55 g 0.035 mol and sodium hydroxide 1.32 g 0.033 mol was heated at 60 C. for 3 h. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was dissolved in EA 150 mL and water 70 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with EA and washed with brine 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel flash chromatography PE EA 8 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 275.1 M H .

The mixture of 1 4 chlorobenzyl 6 fluoro 1H indol 4 amine 7 g 0.026 mol and di tert butyl dicarbonate 11 g 0.051 mol in t butyl alcohol 100 mL was heated at 50 C. for 16 h. The solvent was evaporated and the solid was filtrated and washed with PE to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 375.1 M H .

To the mixture of tert butyl 1 4 chlorobenzyl 6 fluoro 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate 8 g 0.021 mol in THF 300 mL was added dropwise BuLi 2.5 M 34 mL 0.084 mol at 78 C. and the mixture was stirred for another 30 min at 78 C. An excess of dry ice was added and the solution was warmed slowly to room temperature. The resulting mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and saturated aqueous ammonium chloride. The aqueous layer was extracted with EA and washed with brine 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 8 g yield 89 . LC MS m z 363.1 M Bu H .

To a solution of 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl acetic acid 8 g 0.019 mol in methanol 100 mL was added sulfuric acid 1 mL and the mixture was stirred for 2 h at 50 C. The resulting mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate. The aqueous layer was extracted with EA and washed with brine 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford crude title compound 5.7 g which was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS m z 333.1 M H .

The mixture of methyl 2 4 amino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl acetate 5.7 g 0.017 mol and di tert butyl dicarbonate 7.4 g 0.034 mol in t butyl alcohol 80 mL was heated at 50 C. for 10 h. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was purified by silica gel flash chromatography PE EA 8 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 377.1 M Bu H .

LiHMDS 20 mL 0.020 mol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl acetate 4.32 g 0.010 mol in THF 80 mL and HMPA 20 mL at 78 C. The resulting mixture was stirred for another 1 h at 78 C. Iodoethane 2.3 g 0.015 mol was added to the above solution. The reaction mixture was warmed to 20 C. and stirred for 20 min. The mixture was quenched with sat. ammonium chloride and extracted with EA washed with brine and dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel flash chromatography PE EA 8 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 405.1 M Bu H .

Trifluoroacetic acid 4 mL was added rapidly dropwise to a stirred solution of methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate 0.92 g 2 mmol in DCM 10 mL at 0 C. After 1 h the reaction was quenched by careful addition of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate followed by extraction with ether. The organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 361.1 M H .

Methanesulfonyl chloride 0.23 g 2 mmol was added to a stirred solution of methyl 2 4 amino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate 0.6 g 1.7 mmol and 4 methylmorpholine 0.25 g 2.5 mmol in DCM 8 mL at 0 C. After 30 min an additional portion of methanesulfonyl chloride 0.1 g 1 mmol was added. After 1 h the reaction mixture was partitioned between DCM and saturated aqueous ammonium chloride. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with DCM. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel flash chromatography PE EA 2 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 439.1 M H .

To a solution of methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 6 fluoro 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indol 1 yl butanoate 0.5 g 1.14 mmol in THF 5 mL was added dropwise lithium aluminum hydride solution 1.4 mL 1 M in THF at 78 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 0.5 hours at 78 C. TLC and LCMS monitored the reaction was over then 3M HCl solution was added carefully into the reaction to adjust pH 2 3 in ice bath. The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with EA. The combined organic layer was washed with brine and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The resulting mixture was filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel flash chromatography PE EA 2 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 411.1 M H .

Using the procedure described in Example 14 but in step J replacing 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate with methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indol 1 yl 2 2 4 dichlorophenyl butanoate methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate compounds 86 89 of Table 11 were prepared respectively.

To a solution of methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate 1.0 g 2.17 mmol as described in Example 14 Step I in ether 5 mL was added CHLi 7.2 mL 21.7 mmol 3.0 M in ether dropwise at 0 C. and stirred for 30 min. The mixture was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layers was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by Prep TLC eluent ethyl acetate petroleum ether 4 1 to obtain the title compound. LC MS m z 461.2 M H .

A mixture of tert butyl 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpentan 3 yl 6 fluoro 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate 250 mg 0.543 mmol and TFA DCM V V 10 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. After removing the solvent the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 20 mL pH value adjusted to 9 10 with a saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulfate then filtered. After removing the organic solvent a crude compound was obtained without purification. LC MS m z 361.2 M H .

To a mixture of compound 3 4 amino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 methylpentan 2 ol 176 mg 0.489 mmol and NMM 145 mg 1.467 mmol in DCM 10.0 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride 112 mg 0.978 mmol dropwise. Then the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 50 mL . The organic layers was washed with brine dried over dry sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by Prep TLC eluent ethyl acetate petroleum 4 1 to obtain the title compound. LC MS m z 438.9 M H . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 8.02 s 1H 7.57 7.25 m 4H 6.86 dd J 10.9 2.1 Hz 1H 6.74 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 5.85 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 3.00 s 3H 2.84 2.73 m 1H 2.61 2.47 m 1H 1.31 s 3H 1.27 s 3H 0.64 t J 7.3 Hz 3H .

Using the procedure described in Example 15 but in step A replacing 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate with methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate compounds 91 93 of Table 12 were prepared respectively. Also using the procedure described in Example 15 but in step C replacing methanesulfonyl chloride with methylsulfamoyl chloride dimethylsulfamoyl chloride compounds 94 and 95 of Table 12 were prepared respectively.

Compound 94 and 95 were obtained using enantiomer A intermediate example 18 step D as starting material.

A mixture of methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate 500 mg as described in Example 3 Step A in 10 mL of 4 N HCl MeOH was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. Then the solvent was removed. The residue was dissolved in EA 30 mL and pH value was adjusted to 9 10 with saturated aq. NaHCO. The organic layers was washed with water 10 mL brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to give the title product as a pale brown solid. LC MS m z 343.2 M H .

A mixture of methyl 2 4 amino 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate 140 mg hexane 2 5 dione 166 mg and 4 methylbenzenesulfonic acid 3 mg in toluene 5 mL was stirred under reflux for 30 min. Concentrated the residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel column 5 15 ethyl acetate in hexanes to give the title compound as a yellow solid. LC MS m z 421.2 M H .

To a suspension of LiBH 22 mg in THF 3 mL was added MeOH 32 mg 5.43 mmol and a solution of methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 2 5 dimethyl 1H pyrrol 1 yl 1H indol 1 yl butanoate 105 mg in THF 3 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solution was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 20 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel 25 35 ethyl acetate in hexanes to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid. LC MS m z 393.2 M H .

A solution of 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 2 5 dimethyl 1H pyrrol 1 yl 1H indol 1 yl butan 1 ol 89 mg in dry DMF 3 mL was treated by NaH 60 in oil 18 mg at 0 C. for 30 min then was added iodomethane 97 mg . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solution was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 25 mL . The organic layers was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated to afford the title compound as a white solid. LC MS m z 407.1 M H .

To the mixture of 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 methoxybutan 2 yl 4 2 5 dimethyl 1H pyrrol 1 yl 1H indole 70 mg in ethanol HO 3 mL 1 mL was added NHOH HCl 178 mg and triethylamine 87 mg and the reaction mixture was refluxed for 18 h in an oil bath cooled to room temperature concentrated and extracted with ethyl acetate 30 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified using a silica gel column 20 40 ethyl acetate in hexane to afford the title compound as a brown solid. LC MS m z 329.1 M H .

To a mixture of 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 methoxybutan 2 yl 1H indol 4 amine 30 mg and 4 methylmorpholine 46 mg in DCM 3 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride 16 mg dropwise. Then the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solution was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 20 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel 20 30 ethyl acetate in hexane to afford the title compound as a white solid. LC MS m z 407.1 M H .

Using the procedure described in Example 13 but in step A replacing methyl 2 4 tert butoxy carbonylamino 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate with methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate compound 97 of Table 13 was prepared.

Both products tert butyl 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 oxopentan 3 yl 6 fluoro 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate and tert butyl 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpentan 3 yl 6 fluoro 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate were obtained in Example 15 step A.

Using the same procedure described for the preparation of Example 15 step B but replacing the tert butyl 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpentan 3 yl 6 fluoro 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate with tert butyl 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 oxopentan 3 yl 6 fluoro 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate gave the title compound. LC MS m z 345.2 M H .

Using the same procedure described for the preparation of Example 15 step C but replacing 3 4 amino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 methylpentan 2 ol with 3 4 amino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 3 4 chlorophenyl pentan 2 one gave the title compound. LC MS m z 423.2 M H .

Using the procedure described in Example 17 but in step A replacing 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate with methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate compounds 99 104 of Table 14 were prepared respectively. Also using the procedure described in Example 17 but in step C replacing methanesulfonyl chloride with methylsulfamoyl chloride compounds 105 of Table 14 was prepared.

A bottle flask was charged with KCO 85 g 613 mmol in CHCN 500 mL and then a solution of 4 nitro 1H indazole 50 g 307 mmol in CHCN 500 mL was added. After the solution was stirred for 30 min a solution of methyl 2 bromo 2 4 chlorophenyl acetate 100 g 379 mmol as described in Example 1 Step A in CHCN 250 mL was added dropwise at room temperature. The mixture was stirred overnight and then was filtered through a celite pad. The filtrate was concentrated and the residue black oil was freezed to give a solid. Ether 150 mL was added and the mixture was stirred for 15 min. Then it was filtered and the solid was washed with PE 100 mL . The crude title compound 39 g 37 was used directly in the next step.

The mixture of the product from Step A 39 g 113 mmol was dissolved in ethanol 400 mL and charged with 10 platinum on carbon 4.0 g . The mixture was hydrogenated at room temperature 2 days. The mixture was filtrated through celite and washed with ethanol. The filtrate was combined and evaporated in vacuo. The crude product 22 g 62 was used directly in the next step. LC MS m z 316.1 M H .

The compound from step B 22 g 70 mml and Boc O 30 g 140 mmol were dissolved in dioxane 260 mL . Then sat. NaCOaq 50 mL was added to the mixture at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at room temperate for 2 days. Then the solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc 500 mL washed with HO 100 mL brine 100 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel column PE EA 20 1 to 8 1 to give the title compound 23 g 80 LC MS m z 416.1 M H .

The compound from step C 1 g 2.4 mml and EtI 42 mg 2.6 mmol were dissolved in anhydrous DMF 10 mL Then NaH 144 mg 3.6 mmol 60 was added to the mixture slowly at 0 C. After 30 minutes the reaction mixture was quenched by saturate NHCl 10 mL extracted with EA dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column PE EA 20 1 to 5 1 to give the title compound 0.608 g 57 . LC MS m z 444.1 M H . The two enantiomers were separated by SFC chiral separation.

To a solution of methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate 3.5 g 7.90 mmol in THF 140 mL at 0 C. was added LiBH 0.7 g 31.6 mmol . The mixture was allowed to stir overnight at RT. Then it was quenched with saturated NHCl 200 mL carefully and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were washed with brine 80 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and the solvent was removed in vacuo to afford the desired product. LC MS m z 416.3 M H .

To a solution of Dess Martin periodinane 8.12 g 19.15 mmol in DCM 90 mL at 0 C. was added a solution of tert butyl 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 hydroxybutan 2 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate 3.18 g 7.67 mmol in DCM 20 mL . The mixture was allowed to stir at rt for 2 hours. Then it was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to afford the crude product. The product was purified via column chromatography 0 10 EtOAc hexanes to provide the desired product.

To a solution of tert butyl 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate 2.50 g 6.05 mmol in anhydrous THF 50 mL was added methylmagnesium bromide 2.5 M in ether 7.3 mL 18.15 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred for anther 30 min at 0 C. then saturated NHCl 100 mL was added and the mixture was extracted with EA. The combined organic layers were washed with brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and the solvent was removed in vacuo to provide the desired product.

Using the same procedure described for the preparation of Example 15 step B but replacing the tert butyl 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpentan 3 yl 6 fluoro 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate with tert butyl 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate gave the title compound.

Using the same procedure described for the preparation of Example 15 but in step C replacing the 3 4 amino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 methylpentan 2 ol with 3 4 amino 1H indazol 1 yl 3 4 chlorophenyl pentan 2 ol gave the title compound. LC MS m z 408.2 M H .

Using the procedure described in Example 18 but in step E replacing methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate with methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indol 1 yl 2 2 4 dichlorophenyl butanoate methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 2 2 4 dichlorophenyl butanoate methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 6 fluoro 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate compounds 108 117 of Table 15 were prepared respectively. Also using the procedure described in Example 18 but in step E replacing methanesulfonyl chloride with methylsulfamoyl chloride and dimethylsulfamoyl chloride compound 118 and compound 119 of Table 15 were prepared respectively.

A mixture of methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate 3.0 g 6.8 mmol as described in Example 18 Step D in 4 N HCl MeOH 20 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. After removing the solvent the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 80 mL pH value adjusted to 9 10 with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulfate then filtered. After removing the organic solvent the residue was used for the next step without purification. LC MS m z 344.1 M H .

To a mixture of methyl 2 4 amino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate 1.0 g 2.9 mmol and NMM 0.9 g 8.7 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added MsCl 0.4 g 3.2 mmol dropwise Then the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solution was quenched with saturated NHCl solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluent PE EA 4 1 to afford the title compound as a yellow solid. LC MS m z 422.1 M H .

A solution of methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indazol 1 yl butanoate 500 mg 1.19 mmol in dry THF 8 mL was treated by NaH 95 mg 2.38 mmol 60 in oil at 0 C. for 30 min then was added 2 chloromethoxy ethyl trimethylsilane 295 mg 1.78 mmol dropwise. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solution was quenched with saturated NHCl solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 30 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over dry sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 6 1 to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid. LC MS m z 551.8 M H .

To a suspension of LiBH 120 mg 5.43 mmol in THF 5 mL was added MeOH 174 mg 5.43 mmol and a solution of methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 N 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl methylsulfonamido 1H indazol 1 yl butanoate 600 mg 1.09 mmol in THF 8 mL followed. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solution was quenched with saturated NHCl solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 30 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 3 1 to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid. LC MS m z 524.2 M H .

A solution of N 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 hydroxybutan 2 yl 1H indazol 4 yl N 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl methanesulfonamide 560 mg 1.07 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added to Dess Martin periodinane 590 mg 1.39 mmol in portion at 0 C. and stirred for 1.5 h. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 8 1 to afford the title compound as a yellow solid. LC MS m z 522.1 M H .

To a mixture of diethyl cyanomethylphosphonate 20 mg 0.12 mmol LiCl 5 mg 0.12 mmol and DBU 18 mg 0.12 mmol in MeCN 2 mL was added a solution of N 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 1H indazol 4 yl N 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl methane sulfonamide 50 mg 0.10 mmol in MeCN 1 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 6 1 to afford the title compound as a white solid. LC MS m z 545.2 M H .

A suspension of NaH 22 mg in anhydrous DMSO 0.9 mL was added trimethylsulfoxonium iodide 128 mg at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred at rt for 3 h until the solution became clear. Then was added the solution of E N 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 cyanopent 1 en 3 yl 1H indazol 4 yl N 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl methanesulfonamide 42 mg in anhydrous DMSO 0.1 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at 70 C. for 16 h. The solution was quenched with saturated NHCl solution extracted with ethyl acetate 15 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over dry sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 4 1 to afford the title compound as a white solid. LC MS m z 559.2 M H .

A mixture of N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 2 cyanocyclopropyl propyl 1H indazol 4 yl N 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl methanesulfonamide 14 mg in 2 N HCl EtOH 1 mL 1 mL was stirred at 50 C. for 3 h cooled to room temperature concentrated and extracted with ethyl acetate 10 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using a silica gel column PE EA 3 1 to afford the title compound as a brown solid. LC MS m z 429.1 M H .

To a solution of methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate 5 g 11.3 mmol as described in Example 3 Step A in tetrahydrofuran 50 mL was added lithium aluminium hydride 644 mg 16.95 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was gradually warmed to room temperature and stirred for 4 h. Water 10 mL was carefully added to the reaction mixture then extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine 30 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with PE EA 30 1 to 10 1 v v to give the title compound as a colorless amorphous solid. LC MS m z 359.9 M Bu H .

To the product from Step A 2 g 4.82 mmol in dichloromethane 30 mL was added Dess Martin periodinane 3.06 g 7.23 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred for 2 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with PE EA 30 1 to 15 1 v v to afford the title compound as a colorless amorphous solid. LC MS m z 357.9 M Bu H .

To a suspension of t BuOK 683 mg 6.10 mmol in THF 30 mL was added a solution of tosylmethyl isocyanide 239 mg 1.22 mmol in THF 5 mL at 78 C. The mixture was stirred for 15 minutes then treated with a solution of the product from Step B 419 mg 1.02 mmol in THF 10 mL dropwise and continued to stir for 1.5 hours at 78 C. To the cooled reaction mixture was added methanol 100 mL . The mixture was filtered via a short silica gel column and evaporated. The residue was dissolved in MeOH 40 mL and then t BuOK 137 mg 1.22 mmol was added. The resulting mixture was refluxed for 30 minutes. After removing the solvent the residue was dissolved in water 50 mL and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over NaSO filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with PE EA 20 1 to 5 1 v v to give the title compound as a white solid. LC MS m z 446.1 M Na .

The mixture of the product from Step C 250 mg 0.59 mmol and 4 N HCl MeOH 10 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. After solvent was removed in vacuo the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 20 mL pH value adjusted to 9 10 with a saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulfate then filtered. After removing the organic solvent the title compound as a colorless oil was obtained. LC MS m z 324.1 M H .

To a solution of the product from Step D 170 mg 0.52 mmol and N methylmorpholine 105 mg 1.04 mmol in dichloromethane 15 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride 89 mg 0.79 mmol at room temperature. The mixture was stirred for 2 h then diluted with water 15 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by PREP TLC eluting with PE EA 3 1 v v to give the title compound as a colorless amorphous solid. LC MS m z 402.1 M H .

Using the procedure described in Example 21 but in step A replacing 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate with methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate compounds 123 126 of Table 18 were prepared respectively.

To a mixture of diethyl cyanomethylphosphonate 145 mg 0.76 mmol LiCl 43 mg 1.01 mmol and DBU 255 mg 1.01 mmol in acetonitrile 15 mL was added a solution of tert butyl 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate 210 mg 1.02 mmol as described in Example 21 Step B in acetonitrile 3 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h and the volatile was evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with PE EA 10 1 to 3 1 v v to afford the title compound as a white solid. LC MS m z 458.1 M Na .

A mixture of the product from Step A 177 mg 0.406 mmol and 4 N HCl MeOH 10 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. After removing the solvent the residue was dried in vacuo to afford the title compound as a white solid. LC MS m z 336.1 M H .

To a mixture of compound from step B 123 mg 0.367 mmol and NMM 74 mg 0.734 mmol in DCM 15 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride 62 mg 0.550 mmol dropwise. Then the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 20 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with PE EA 10 1 to 3 1 v v to afford the title compound as a white solid. LC MS m z 436.1 M Na .

Using the procedure described in Example 22 but in step A replacing tert butyl 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate with tert butyl 1 2 4 methoxyphenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate tert butyl 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate tert butyl 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 6 fluoro 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate compound 128 130 of Table 19 were prepared respectively. Using the procedure described in Example 22 but in step A replacing diethyl cyanomethylphosphonate with diethyl 1 cyanoethylphosphonate compound 131 was prepared.

To a solution of methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indol 1 yl butanoate 1 g 2.38 mmol as described in Example 3 Step C in THF 30 mL was added CHLi 3.2 mL 4.76 mmol 1.5 M in ether dropwise at 0 C. and stirred for 0.5 h. The mixture was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with PE EA 15 1 to 6 1 v v to afford the title compound as a colorless amorphous solid. LC MS m z 427.1 M Na .

To a solution of acetonitrile 244 mg 5.94 mmol in THF 20 mL was added n BuLi 2.6 mL 6.5 mmol 2.5 M in hexane dropwise at 78 C. After stirring for 0.5 h a solution of the product from Step A 480 mg 1.19 mmol in THF 5 mL was added to the mixture at 78 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 0.5 h and then quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with PE EA 15 1 to 4 1 v v to afford the title compound as a colorless amorphous solid. LC MS m z 468.0 M Na .

A mixture of the product from Step B 200 mg 0.449 mmol TFAA 283 mg 1.35 mmol triethylamine 136 mg 1.35 mmol and DMAP 165 mg 1.35 mmol in dichloromethane 20 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was purified by PREP TLC eluting with PE EA 3 1 v v to give the title compound as a colorless amorphous solid. LC MS m z 450.0 M Na .

Using the same procedure described for the preparation of Example 22 but in step A replacing the tert butyl 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate with tert butyl 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate tert butyl 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 6 fluoro 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate gave the compound 133 and compound 134.

To a mixture of diethyl cyanomethylphosphonate 305 mg LiCl 74 mg and DBU 327 mg in MeCN 15 mL was added a solution of E tert butyl 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 cyanopent 1 en 3 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate 600 mg as described in Example 18 Step F in MeCN 5 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 6 1 to afford the title compound as a white solid. LC MS m z 437.1 M H .

A solution of E tert butyl 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 cyanopent 1 en 3 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate 50 mg 1.19 mmol in anhydrous DMF 2 mL was treated by NaH 9 mg 60 in oil at 0 C. for 30 min then was added methanesulfonyl chloride 50 mg . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The solution was quenched with saturated NHCl solution extracted with ethyl acetate 15 mL . The organic layer was washed with water brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 6 1 to afford the title compound as a white solid. LC MS m z 515.2 M H .

Using the same procedure described for the preparation of Example 22 step C but replacing the E 4 4 amino 1H indol 1 yl 4 4 chlorophenyl hex 2 enenitrile with E 4 4 amino 6 fluoro 1H indazol 1 yl 4 4 chlorophenyl hex 2 enenitrile gave the compound 136.

A mixture of methyl E tert butyl 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 cyanopent 1 en 3 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate 500 mg as described in Example 25 Step A in 15 mL of 4 N HCl MeOH was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. Then the solvent was removed. The residue was dissolved in EA 30 mL and pH value was adjusted to 9 10 with saturated aq. NaHCO. The organic layer was washed with water 10 mL brine dried NaSO and concentrated. The residue was purified on revered phase HPLC 0.05 NHHCOin HO MeCN to give the title product as a pale brown solid. LC MS m z 337.2 M H .

To a mixture of E 4 4 amino 1H indazol 1 yl 4 4 chlorophenyl hex 2 enenitrile 130 mg and NMM 117 mg in DCM 5 mL was added MsCl 53 mg Then the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solution was quenched with saturated NHCl solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 30 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over dry sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluent PE EA 5 1 to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid. LC MS m z 415.2 M H .

A mixture of E N 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 cyanopent 1 en 3 yl 1H indazol 4 yl methanesulfonamide 60 mg and 10 Pd C in EA 4 mL was stirred at room temperature under Hatmosphere for 16 h. The mixture was filtered and evaporated to give the title compound as a pale yellow solid. LC MS m z 417.2 M H .

Using the procedure described in Example 27 but in step B replacing E 4 4 amino 1H indazol 1 yl 4 4 chlorophenyl hex 2 enenitrile with E 4 4 amino 1H indazol 1 yl 4 4 methoxyphenyl hex 2 enenitrile E 4 4 amino 1H indol 1 yl 4 4 chlorophenyl hex 2 enenitrile E 4 4 amino 1H indazol 1 yl 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl hex 2 enenitrile E 4 4 amino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 4 4 chlorophenyl hex 2 enenitrile E 4 4 amino 6 fluoro 1H indazol 1 yl 4 phenylhex 2 enenitrile E 4 4 amino 6 fluoro 1H indazol 1 yl 4 4 chlorophenyl hex 2 enenitrile compound 139 145 were prepared respectively.

To a solution of acetonitrile 180 mg 4.4 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 3 mL was added BuLi 1.9 mL 4.8 mmol 2.5 M in hexane at 78 C. After stirring for 30 min a solution of methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indol 1 yl butanoate 840 mg 2.0 mmol Enantiomer A as described in Example 3 step D in tetrahydrofuran 3 mL was added to the mixture at 78 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at 78 C. for another 1 h and then quenched with water 15 mL extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organics were washed with brine 15 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with PE EA 5 1 to 3 1 v v to get the title compound as a colorless amorphous solid Enantiomer A . LC MS m z 429.8 M H .

To a solution of N 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 cyano 2 oxopentan 3 yl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide 50 mg 0.116 mmol enantiomer A as described in Example 28 step A in DMF 2 mL was added NaH 9 mg 0348 mmol 60 in oil at 0 C. After stirring for 30 min 1 2 dibromoethane 22 mg 0.116 mmol was added to the mixture at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for another 1 h and then quenched with water 15 mL extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with PE EA 5 1 to 3 1 v v to give the title compound as a colorless amorphous solid. LC MS m z 456.1 M H .

A mixture of methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indol 1 yl butanoate 840 mg 2 mmol as described in Example 3 step C and 2 M LiOH 5 mL in methanol 5 mL was heated to 50 C. for 5 h. The reaction was acidified with 1M HCl and the volatile was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 80 mL and water 20 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine 10 mL and dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as colorless solid. LC MS 407.0 M 1 .

A mixture of the product of Step A 40 mg 0.1 mmol HATU 57 mg 0.15 mmol N N diisopropylethylamine 26 mg 0.2 mmol and 2 chloroethanamine 16 mg 0.2 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 2 mL was stirred at room temperature overnight. The crude product was purified by CombiFlash Mobile phase acetonitrile water 0.03 TFA to afford the title compound as a white amorphous solid. LC MS m z 467.9 M H .

Following the same procedure for the preparation of EXAMPLE 30 step B but using 2 aminoacetonitrile instead of 2 chloroethanamine compound 149 of Table 27 was obtained.

To a solution of 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indol 1 yl butanoiacid 200 mg 0.49 mmol as described in Example 30 Step A in THF 5 mL was added EDCI 141 mg 0.74 mmol triethylamine 75 mg 0.74 mmol and HOBT 13 mg 0.098 mmol at RT. The mixture was stirred for 15 minutes and then N hydroxyacetimidamide 73 mg 1.47 mmol was added. After 4 hours the resulting mixture was diluted with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 10 mL and extracted with EA 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The residue was used to next step without further purification.

A solution of 2 4 chlorophenyl N 1 hydroxyimino ethyl 2 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indol 1 yl butanamide 148 mg 0.32 mmol in THF 5 mL was heated at 70 C. for 2 days. Then the solvent was removed in vacuo to afford the crude product. The product was purified by column chromatography 50 EtOAc hexanes then by chiral separation following the conditions below provided the title compound as a single enantiomer.

Using the same procedure described for the preparation of Example 31 but replacing the N hydroxyacetimidamide in step A with N hydroxypropionimidamide gave the title compound 151.

A mixture of tert butyl 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate 500 mg 1.21 mmol as described in Example 21 Step B and dimethyl 1 diazo 2 oxopropylphosphonate 244 mg 1.27 mmol in MeOH 10 mL was stirred at rt for 4 hours. After removing the solvent in vacuo the residue was purified via column chromatography 0 30 EtOAc hexanes to provide the title compound.

A solution of tert butyl 1 3 4 chlorophenyl pent 1 yn 3 yl 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate 200 mg 0.5 mmol in trimethylsilyl azide 3 mL was heated at 100 C. under microwave for 3 h. The resulting mixture was diluted with brine 10 mL and extracted with EA. The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and the solvent was removed in vacuo to afford the crude product. The product was purified via column chromatography 75 EtOAc hexanes to provide the title product.

A solution of tert butyl 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl propyl 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate 150 mg 0.33 mmol in DMF 5 mL was added potassium carbonate 91 mg 0.66 mmol and iodoethane 62 mg 0.40 mmol . After stirring for 2 hours the mixture was diluted with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 10 mL and extracted with EA. The combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and the solvent was removed in vacuo to afford the crude product. The product was purified via column chromatography 50 EtOAc hexanes to provide the title product.

Using the same procedure described for the preparation of Example 14 step G but replacing the 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl acetic acid with tert butyl 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 2 ethyl 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl propyl 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate gave the title compound.

Using the same procedure described for the preparation of Example 14 step K but replacing the methyl 2 4 amino 6 fluoro 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate with 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 2 ethyl 2H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl propyl 1H indol 4 amine gave the title compound.

To a solution of 1H indole 4 carbaldehyde 2.0 g 13.79 mmol in DMF 50 mL was added NaH 0.66 g 16.55 mmol at 0 C. After stirring for 30 min at 0 C. a solution of methyl 2 bromo 2 4 chlorophenyl acetate 4.67 g 17.92 mmol in DMF 20 mL was added dropwise. The reaction was allowed to warm to rt and stirred for an additional 1 hr. Then it was diluted with EtOAc 200 mL and quenched with water. The organic layer was separated and washed with brine 50 mL dried over NaSO filtered and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The residue was purified via column chromatography 0 20 EtOAc hexanes to provide the title compound.

To a solution of methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 formyl 1H indol 1 yl acetate 2.34 g 7.17 mmol in THF 60 mL and HMPA 15 mL was added LiHMDS 1 M in THF 11.0 mL 11 mmol dropwise at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min before adding iodoethane 1.23 g 7.88 mmol . After stirring for another 30 min at 0 C. the mixture was diluted with EtOAc 120 mL and then quenched with water 20 mL . The organic layer was separated and washed with brine 20 mL dried over NaSO filtered and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The residue was purified via column chromatography 0 15 EtOAc hexanes to provide the title compound.

To a solution of diethyl methylsulfonylmethylphosphonate 1.05 g 4.56 mmol in CHCN 30 mL at RT was added LiCl 0.16 g 3.80 mmol and DBU 2.40 g 9.56 mmol . After 5 min a solution of methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 formyl 1H indol 1 yl butanoate 1.35 g 3.80 mmol in CHCN 10 mL was added dropwise. The resulting mixture was stirred for 4 hours at RT. Then it was diluted with DCM 50 mL and the organic layer was washed with water 30 mL dried over NaSO filtered. After removal of the solvent the residue was purified via column chromatography 0 30 EtOAc hexanes to provide the title compound. LC MS m z 432.0 M H .

To a solution of E methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 2 methylsulfonyl vinyl 1H indol 1 yl butanoate 1.18 g 2.73 mmol in EtOAc 50 mL was added Pd C 10 on carbon 0.2 g . The mixture was stirred under Hatmosphere for 30 min. Then the reaction mixture was filtered through a celite pad and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified via column chromatography 0 30 EtOAc hexanes to provide the title compound. LC MS m z 434.1 M H .

To a solution of methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate 0.44 g 1 mmol as described in Example 3 step A in THF 20 mL was added titanium IV isopropoxide 0.3 g 1 mmol and the solution was cooled to 0 C. Ethylmagnesium bromide 3 N in ether 1.8 mL 5 mmol was then added via syringe pump over 1 hr period and the reaction was stirred for an additional 30 min at this temperature. The mixture was warmed into RT and stirred over night. The final mixture was diluted with EA treated with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution extracted with EA and DCM dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography over silica gel eluted with hexanes EA 95 5 to EA to give the title compound. LC MS m z 441.0 M H .

Compound from step A 96 mg 0.22 mmol was treated with 10 mL 4N HCl MeOH solution over night. The solvents were removed by reduced pressure to give white product. LC MS m z 341.0 M H .

To a mixture of compound from step B 83 mg 0.22 mmol and NMM 44 mg 0.44 mmol in DCM 5 mL was added methylsulfonyl chloride 37 mg 0.3 mmol dropwise. Then the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 20 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by Pre HPLC to afford the title compound as a white solid. LC MS m z 419.1 M H .

To a solution of compound N 1 3 4 chlorophenyl pent 1 yn 3 yl 1H indol 4 yl N 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl methanesulfonamide 2.9 g 5.6 mmol enantiomer A as described in Example 55 Step A in dry THF 10 mL was added BuLi 4.5 mL 11.2 mmol 2.5 M in hexane at 78 C. After stirring for 30 min methyl carbonchloridate 0.88 mL 6.2 mmol was added to the mixture at 78 C. The resulting mixture was stirred for another 2 h and then quenched with saturated NHCl 10 mL extracted with ethyl acetate washed with brine 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate then filtered. After removing the organic solvent the residue was purified by column chromatography EA PE 1 10 to obtain the title compound. LC MS m z 597.0 M Na .

To a solution of the compound from step A 100 mg 0.17 mmol enantiomer A in MeOH 5 mL was added HO 1 mL LiOH 72 mg 1.7 mmol . The mixture was stirred at RT overnight. After removing the organic solvent the residue was dissolved with HO 5 mL and adjusted to pH 4 with 1M HCl then extracted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine 20 mL dried over dry sodium sulfate then filtered. The solvent was evaporated to give the title compound. LC MS m z 583.0 M Na .

To a solution of the product from step B 40 mg 0.071 mmol enantiomer A in DMF 5 mL was added DIPEA 18 mg 0.142 mmol HATU 40 mg 0.11 mmol NHCl 38 mg 0.71 mmol . The mixture was stirred at RT overnight. After removing the organic solvent the residue was dissolved with HO 20 mL extracted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate then filtered. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was purified by Prep TLC EA PE 2 1 to obtain the title compound. LC MS m z 582.0 M Na 

To a solution of the product from step C 20 mg 0.036 mmol enantiomer A in pyridine 5 mL was added POCl 0.05 mL . The mixture was stirred at RT for 2 h. The residue was purified by Combiflash Mobile phase MeOH HO 0.08 of NHHCO to obtain the title compound. LC MS m z 564.0 M Na .

To a solution of the product from step D 15 mg 0.028 mmol enantiomer A in EtOH 2 mL was added 2N HCl 0.5 mL . The mixture was stirred at 50 C. overnight. The volatile was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by Combiflash Mobile phase MeOH HO 0.08 of NHHCO to obtain the title compound. LC MS m z 412.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDC 7.53 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.33 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.17 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.12 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.01 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.73 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.70 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 6.62 br 1H 3.04 s 3H 2.80 2.76 m 1H 2.52 2.48 m 1H 1.05 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

To a suspension of NaH 60 dispersion in mineral oil 22 mg 0.55 mmol in anhydrous DMF 3 mL under nitrogen atmosphere was added methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl acetate 207 mg 0.5 mmol as described in Example 2 step B in anhydrous DMF 2 mL and the mixture was then stirred at 0 C. for 1 h. To this mixture was added 1 fluoro 2 iodoethane 17.4 mg 1 mmol and the mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 4 h. The volatile was evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with PE EA 10 1 to 3 1 v v to afford the title compound as a white solid. LC MS m z 405.1 M H .

A mixture of the product from Step A 100 mg 0.217 mmol and 4 N HCl MeOH 10 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. After removing the solvent the residue was dried in vacuo to afford the title compound as brown oil. LC MS m z 361.1 M H .

To a mixture of compound from step B 68 mg 0.189 mmol and NMM 38 mg 0.37 mmol in DCM 7 mL was added methylsulfonyl chloride 32 mg 0.283 mmol dropwise. Then the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution extracted with ethyl acetate 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with PE EA 10 1 to 3 1 v v to afford the title compound as a white solid. LC MS m z 439.0 M H .

Methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate 0.5 g 1.13 mmol enantiomer A intermediate as described in example 18 step D as described in Example 18 step D was dissolved in a mixture of 1 4 dioxane 1.0 mL and water 0.25 mL followed by addition of LiOH 0.27 g 11.26 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 70 C. for 5 hours then concentrated to remove solvent. The residue was dissolved in water 20 mL and acidified with 1 N aq. HCl solution 11.3 mL to give white precipitate. The solid was filtered washed with water and dried under vacuum to give title compound. LC MS m z 430.1 M H .

To a suspension of 2 4 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoic acid from Step A above 0.16 g 0.37 mmol in DCM 1.5 mL was added 1 1 carbonyldiimdazole 0.13 g 0.78 mmol to give a clear solution. The mixture was stirred for 7.5 hours at RT followed by addition of ethyl 2 oximinooxamate 0.13 g 0.93 mmol . After stirring at RT overnight the resulting mixture was diluted with EtOAc washed with saturated NaHCOsolution water and brine. The organic layer was separated and concentrated. The resulting crude product was re dissolved in a mixture of acetonitrile and water and dried in a lyophilized to give the title compound as light yellow solid. LC MS m z 544.1 M H .

To a solution of the product from Step B above 0.18 g 0.33 mmol in pyridine 9.0 mL was added phosphorus oxychloride 0.25 g 1.65 mmol . The mixture was heated at 70 C. for 7 hours and stirred at 35 C. overnight then concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in EtOAc and washed with saturated NaHCO water and brine. The organic layer was separated and dried over NaSO. The crude product was purified on a silica gel column using a gradient of 0 50 ethyl acetate in hexanes to give the title compound as light brown solid. LC MS m z 526.1 M H .

To a solution of the product from Step C above 0.083 g 0.16 mmol and anisole 0.068 g 0.63 mmol in DCM 1.0 mL was added TFA 0.18 g 1.58 mmol . After stirred overnight at RT the reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was re dissolved in a mixture of acetonitrile and water followed by addition of 1 N HCl aqueous solution 0.16 mL . The solution was dried in a lyophilized to give crude title compound. LC MS m z 426.1 M H .

To a solution of the product from Step D above 0.080 g 0.17 mmol and N methylmorpholine 0.035 g 0.35 mmol in DCM 1.0 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride 0.019 g 0.17 mmol at 0 C. After stirring at RT for 30 min the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was diluted with dioxane water acidified with TFA and purified directly on RP HPLC to give the title compound. LC MS m z 504.1 M H .

The product from Step E above 0.015 g 0.030 mmol was dissolved in a 7 N solution of ammonia in methanol 2.6 mL . After stirring at RT for 45 min the resulting mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in dioxane water acidified with TFA and purified directly on RP HPLC to give the title compound. LC MS m z 475.0 M H . H NMR 500 MHz CDOD ppm 8.34 s 1H 7.43 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.37 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.16 7.14 m 2H 6.48 6.45 m 1H 3.20 3.12 m 1H 3.14 3.05 m 1H 3.04 s 3H 0.89 t J 7.4 Hz 3H .

To a solution of the product from Example 37 step F above 6.8 mg 0.014 mmol in pyridine 1.0 mL was added POCl 32.8 mg 0.28 mmol at 0 C. After stirring at RT overnight the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was diluted with dioxane water acidified with TFA and purified directly on RP HPLC to give the title compound. LC MS m z 457.1 M H .

A bottle flask was charged with NaH 580 mg 14.4 mmol 60 in oil and then a solution of methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl acetate 3 g 7.22 mmol as described in Example 18 Step C and 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl trifluoromethanesulfonate 3.35 g 14.4 mmol in THF 40 mL at 0 C. The mixture was stirred for 30 min quenched with saturated NHCl solution 10 mL extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layers were washed with brine 15 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 3 1 to afford the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 498.1 M H .

To a solution of the product of Step A 300 mg 0.6 mmol in THF 5 mL was added LiAlH 38 mg 0.96 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at RT for 1 h and quenched with HO 5 mL extracted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate then filtered. After the solvent was removed the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography EA PE 1 3 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 470.1 M H .

To a solution of the product of Step B 200 mg 0.42 mmol in DCM 5 mL was added Dess Martin periodinane 350 mg 0.84 mmol in portion at room temperature. The mixture was stirred at for 0.5 h and then diluted with water 5 mL extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layers were washed with brine 5 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography EA PE 1 8 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 468.2 M H .

To a solution of the product of Step C 120 mg 0.25 mmol in methanol 5 mL was added KCO 69 mg 0.5 mmol dimethyl 1 diazo 2 oxopropylphosphonate 96 mg 0.5 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. After removing the organic solvent the residue was added HO 10 mL extracted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate then filtered. The organic solvent was evaporated and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography EA PE 1 8 to obtain the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 464.1 M H .

To a solution of the product of Step D 100 mg 0.21 mmol in ethanol 3 mL was added PtO 10 mg 0.044 mmol at room temperature under Hatmosphere for 2 h. The solid was filtered off and filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to obtain the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 468.1 M H .

A mixture of the product of Step E 80 mg 0.17 mmol and 4 N HCl MeOH 2 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. After removing the solvent the residue was dried in vacuo to give the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 368.1 M H .

To a mixture of the product of Step F 50 mg 0.13 mmol and NMM 31 mg 0.3 mmol in DCM 3 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride 20 mg 0.21 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h then quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution 10 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by Pre HPLC Mobile phase acetonitrile water 0.03 TFA to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 446.11 M H .

A solution of methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl acetate 2 g 4.83 mmol as described in Example 2 Step B and tert butyl 2 bromoacetate 1.4 g 7.25 mmol in THF 10 mL was added to NaH 290 mg 7.25 mmol 60 in oil dropwise at 0 C. and stirred for 30 min. The mixture was quenched with saturated NHCl solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with brine 20 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 3 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 529.2 M H .

A mixture of the product of step A 1.8 g 3.4 mmol and 3 N LiOH 410 mg 17 mmol was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. After the solvent was evaporated the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 20 mL and pH value adjusted to 6 7 with 1 M HCl. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 515.2 M H .

To a mixture of the product of step B 1.5 g 2.9 mmol and NMM 590 mg 5.83 mmol in DME 15 mL was added isobutyl carbonochloridate 793 mg 5.83 mmol dropwise at 0 C. After stirring for 30 min. NaBHwas added to the mixture at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for another 1 h and then quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution 10 mL extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 3 1 to afford the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 501.2 M H .

To a solution of the product of Step C 1.2 g 2.4 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added Dess Martin periodinane 2.03 g 4.8 mmol in portion at room temperature. After stirring for 0.5 h the mixture was diluted with water 15 mL extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography EA PE 1 8 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 499.2 M H .

To a solution of the product of Step D 750 mg 1.5 mmol in MeOH 10 mL was added KCO 414 mg 3 mmol and dimethyl 1 diazo 2 oxopropylphosphonate 576 mg 3 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. After removing the organic solvent the residue was added HO 10 mL extracted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate then filtered. The solvent was evaporated in vacuo and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography EA PE 1 8 to obtain the title compound as colorless solid. LC MS m z 495.2 M H .

To a solution of the product of Step E 150 mg 0.3 mmol in ethanol 3 mL was added PtO 6.8 mg 0.03 mmol at room temperature under Hatmosphere for 2 h. The solid was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 499.2 M H .

A mixture of the product of Step F 120 mg 0.24 mmol and 4 N HCl MeOH 2 mL was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The volatile was removed in vacuo to give the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 357.1 M H .

To a mixture of the product of Step G 75 mg 0.21 mmol and NMM 42 mg 0.42 mmol in DCM 3 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride 36 mg 0.38 mmol . Then the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 3 1 to afford the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 435.1 M H .

To a solution of the product of Step H 60 mg 0.138 mmol in THF 5 mL was added LiAlH 10.4 mg 0.276 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred for 1 h and quenched with HO 2 mL extracted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine 5 mL dried over sodium sulfate then filtered. After removing the organic solvent the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography EA PE 1 3 to afford the title racemic compound. The racemic compound was submitted to chiral SFC separation using AS H column 50 EtOH CO 4.6 250 mm 39.3 C. to give two separated enantiomers. LC MS m z 406.9 M H .

To a solution of N 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 hydroxypentan 3 yl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide 20 mg 0.05 mmol as described in Example 40 Step I in DCM 5 mL was added DAST 16 mg 0.1 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred for 1 h then quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 5 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organics were washed with water 5 mL and brine 5 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The resulting crude product was purified by Pre HPLC Mobile phase acetonitrile water 0.03 TFA to afford the title racemic compound as a white solid. The racemic compound was submitted to chiral SFC separation using IC 30 MeOH 0.1 DEA CO 4.6 250 mm 41 C. to give two separated enantiomers. LC MS m z 409.1 M H .

To a mixture of N 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 hydroxypentan 3 yl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide 20 mg 0.05 mmol as described in Example 40 Step I and NMM 10 mg 0.1 mmol in DCM 3 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride 7 mg 0.06 mmol . Then the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution 5 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layers were washed with brine 5 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by Prep TLC PE EA 4 1 to afford the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 485.1 M H .

To a mixture of 3 4 chlorophenyl 3 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indol 1 yl pentyl methanesulfonate 10 mg 0.02 mmol as described in Example 40 Step I in methanol 2 mL was added CHONa 21 mg 0.4 mmol at room temperature. Then the mixture was heated to 40 C. for 2 h. The solution was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution 10 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layers were washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by Prep HPLC Mobile phase acetonitrile water 0.03 TFA to afford the title compound as a white solid. LC MS m z 421.1 M H .

Following the same procedure for the preparation of EXAMPLE 43 but using sodium methanethiolate Compound 166 of Table 40 was obtained.

To a mixture of tert butyl 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 1H indol 4 yl carbamate 412 mg 1 mmol as described in Example 21 Step B and KCO 276 mg 2 mmol in methanol 10 mL was added dimethyl 1 diazo 2 oxopropylphosphonate 230 mg 1.2 mmol at room temperature. The mixture was stirred for 2 h and the solid was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with PE EA 20 1 to 10 1 v v to give the title compound as colorless amorphous solid. LC MS m z 352.9 M Bu H .

To a solution of the product of Step A 436.5 mg 1.07 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 10 mL was added BuLi 0.9 mL 2.25 mmol 2.5 M in hexane at 78 C. After stirring at 78 C. for 30 min methyl carbonchloridate 121 mg 1.28 mmol was added to the mixture. The resulting mixture was stirred for another 1 h then quenched with aqueous NHCl 10 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine 15 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with PE EA 20 1 to 10 1 v v to give the title compound as a colorless amorphous solid. LC MS m z 410.9 M Bu H .

A mixture of the product of Step B 200 mg 0.43 mmol PtO 10 mg 0.043 mmol and methanol 2 mL was degassed three times and backfilled with hydrogen. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h under hydrogen atmosphere. The solid was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 414.9 M Bu H .

A mixture of the product of Step C 190 mg 0.4 mmol and MeOH HCl 2 mL 4 M was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The volatile was removed in vacuo to give the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 371.1 M H .

To a solution of the product of Step D 100 mg 0.27 mmol and N methylmorpholine 41 mg 0.4 mmol in dichloromethane 3 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride 40 mg 0.35 mmol at room temperature. The mixture was stirred for 2 h then diluted with water 15 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by PREP TLC eluting with PE EA 4 1 v v to give the title compound as a colorless amorphous solid. LC MS m z 471.0 M Na .

Following the same procedure for the preparation of EXAMPLE 44 but in step A using tert butyl 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 1H indazol 4 yl carbamate compound 168 of Table 41 was obtained.

To a solution of methyl 4 4 chlorophenyl 4 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indol 1 yl hexanoate 20 mg 0.045 mmol as described in Example 44 Step E in tetrahydrofuran 2 mL was added lithium aluminium hydride 2.5 mg 0.0675 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was gradually warmed to room temperature and stirred for 4 h. Water 1 mL was carefully added to the reaction mixture and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine 30 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by PREP TLC eluting with PE EA 2 1 v v to give the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 421.0 M H .

To a solution of N 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 6 hydroxyhexan 3 yl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide 21 mg 0.05 mmol as described in Example 45 Step A in dichloromethane 2 mL was added DAST 16 mg 0.1 mmol at 78 C. The mixture was gradually warmed to room temperature and stirred for 3 h then quenched with methanol 0.5 mL . The crude product was purified by PREP TLC eluting with PE EA 2 1 v v to obtain the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 444.7 M Na .

A mixture of methyl E tert butyl 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 cyanopent 1 en 3 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate 500 mg as described in Example 22 Step A in 15 mL of 4 N HCl MeOH was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. Then the solvent was removed. The residue was dissolved in EA 30 mL and pH value was adjusted to 9 10 with saturated aq. NaHCO. The organic layer was washed with water 10 mL brine dried NaSO and concentrated. The residue was purified on revered phase HPLC 0.05 NHHCOin HO MeCN to give the title product as a pale brown solid. LC MS m z 370.2 M H .

To a mixture of E methyl 4 4 amino 1H indazol 1 yl 4 4 chlorophenyl hex 2 enoate 120 mg and NMM 98 mg in DCM 5 mL was added MsCl 45 mg . Then the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solution was quenched with saturated NHCl solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 30 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over dry sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 5 1 to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid. LC MS m z 448.2 M H .

A mixture of methyl 4 4 chlorophenyl 4 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indazol 1 yl hexanoate 50 mg as described in Example 44 Step E in 2 mL of anhydrous THF was added CHLi 1.5 M in ether 0.2 mL dropwise at 0 C. and stirred for 30 min. The solution was quenched with saturated NHCl solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 20 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over dry sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified on revered phase HPLC 0.05 TFA in HO MeCN to give the title product as a white solid. LC MS m z 434.1 M H .

To a solution of NaH 41 mg 0.764 mmol 60 in oil in DMSO 15 mL at 0 C. was added trimethylsulfoxonium iodide 235 mg 1.07 mmol divided into several portions. The mixture was stirred at room temperature until the mixture became clear. To the solution of tert butyl 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate 210 mg 0.509 mmol as described in Example 21 Step B in THF 15 mL was added the upper solution dropwise at 0 C. Then the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with brine 15 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography with PE EA 10 1 to 3 1 v v to afford the title compound as a colorless solid. LC MS m z 448.9 M Na .

To a solution of the product from Step A 60 mg 0.140 mmol in MeOH 3 mL was added MeONa 15 mg 0.281 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 120 C. under microwave for 0.5 h. The solution was removed and the residue was purified by PREP TLC eluting with PE EA 1 1 v v to give the title compound as a colorless amorphous solid. LC MS m z 359.1 M H .

To the mixture of the product from Step B 39 mg 0.108 mmol and NMM 22 mg 0.216 mmol in DCM 8 mL was added methylsulfonyl chloride 18 mg 0.163 mmol dropwise. Then the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 10 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by PREP TLC eluting with PE EA 1 1 v v to get the title compound as a colorless amorphous solid. LC MS m z 437.1 M H .

A mixture of tert butyl 1 3 4 chlorophenyl pent 1 yn 3 yl 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate 100 mg 0.245 mmol as described in Example 44 Step A PtO 5.5 mg 0.0245 mmol and methanol 2 mL was degassed three times and backfilled with dihydrogen. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h under dihydrogen atmosphere. The solid was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 357.0 M Bu H .

A mixture of the product of Step A 90 mg 0.218 mmol and MeOH HCl 2 mL 4 M was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The volatile was removed in vacuo to give the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 313.1 M H .

To a solution of the product of Step B 50 mg 0.16 mmol and N methylmorpholine 32 mg 0.32 mmol in dichloromethane 2 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride 23 mg 0.24 mmol at room temperature. The mixture was stirred for 2 h then diluted with water 15 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by PREP TLC eluting with PE EA 2 1 v v to give the title compound as a colorless solid. LC MS m z 391.0 M H .

A mixture of tert butyl 1 3 4 chlorophenyl pent 1 en 3 yl 1H indol 4 ylcarbamate 100 mg 0.245 mmol as described in Example 44 Step A Lindlar s catalyst 10 mg and methanol 2 mL was degassed three times and backfilled with hydrogen. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h under hydrogen atmosphere. The solid was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 355.0 M Bu H .

A mixture of the product of Step A 95 mg 0.232 mmol and MeOH HCl 4 mL 2M was stirred at 0 C. for 2 h. The volatile was removed in vacuo to give the title compound as colorless oil. LC MS m z 311.1 M H .

To a solution of the product of Step B 40 mg 0.128 mmol and N methylmorpholine 26 mg 0.256 mmol in dichloromethane 2 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride 18 mg 0.192 mmol at room temperature. The mixture was stirred for 2 h then diluted with water 10 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by PREP TLC eluting with PE EA 3 1 v v to give the title compound as a colorless solid. LC MS m z 388.9 M H .

To a solution of N 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 oxopentan 3 yl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide 200 mg 0.49 mmol as described in Example 23 Step A in EtOH 5 mL was added hydroxylamine hydrochloride 68 mg 0.99 mmol and KCO 137 mg 0.99 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 130 C. under microwave for 2 h. After removing the solvent the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 30 mL . The organic layer was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL and brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate and then filtered. After removing the organic solvent the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with PE EA 10 1 to 5 1 v v to afford the title compound as a white solid. LC MS m z 441.9 M Na .

A mixture of the product from Step A 68 mg 0.162 mmol and Raney Ni 1 mg in MeOH 10 mL was purged air three times and then backfilled with H. The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature overnight. The suspension was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated to afford the title compound as a colorless solid. LC MS m z 406.0 M H .

Using the procedure described in Example 39 but in step A replacing N 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 oxopentan 3 yl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide with N 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide compound 177 of Table 49 was prepared.

Ethanesulfonyl chloride 0.26 g 2 mmol was added to a stirred solution of methyl 2 4 amino 1H indol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate 0.58 g 1.7 mmol as described in Example 3 Step B and 4 methylmorpholine 0.25 g 2.5 mmol in DCM 8 mL at 0 C. After 30 min an additional portion of ethanesulfonyl chloride 0.1 g 1 mmol was added. After 1 h the reaction mixture was partitioned between DCM and saturated aqueous ammonium chloride. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with DCM. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel flash chromatography PE EA 2 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 435.1 M H .

The product from Step A above 0.43 g 1.0 mmol was dissolved in a 7 N solution of ammonia in methanol 25 mL . After stirring at RT for 10 h the resulting mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in dioxane water acidified with TFA and purified directly on RP HPLC to give the title compound. LC MS m z 420.1 M H . The two enantiomers were separated by SFC chiral separation.

Cyanuric chloride 92 mg 0.5 mmol was added to a stirred solution of the product enantiomer A from step B 210 mg 0.5 mmol in DMF 3 mL and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at RT for 3 h. The reaction mixture was poured into brine and the resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel flash chromatography PE EA 2 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 402.0 M H .

Sodium azide 117.6 m g 1.809 mmol was added to a stirred solution of N 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 cyanopropyl 1H indol 4 yl methanesulfonamide 100 mg 0.258 mmol and ammonium chloride 110.6 g 2.067 mmol in DMF 2 mL was heated at 130 C. for 3 h in microwave reactor. The reaction was quenched with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 100 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with PE EA 5 1 to 1 1 v v to afford the title compound as a yellow solid. LC MS m z 431.0 M H .

A mixture of the product from Step B 65 mg 0.151 mmol KCO 41.7 mg 0.302 mmol and iodoethane 30.8 mg 0.181 mmol in DMF 1 mL was stirred at 80 C. overnight. The volatile was evaporated. The residue was extracted with ethyl acetate 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with water and brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with PE EA 5 1 to 1 1 v v to afford the title compound as a yellow solid. LC MS m z 459.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure in Example 32 Step A using N 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 1H indazol 4 yl N 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl methanesulfonamide enantiomer A as described in Example 20 Step E as starting material.

A three neck round bottom flask was charged with CuI 38 mg 0.2 mmol Phen.HO 40 mg 0.2 mmol KF 58 mg 1.0 mmol and stirring bar. The flask was dried at 130 C. in vacuo for 3 h. After cooling to RT the flask was backfilled with air and TMSCF 142 mg 1.0 mmol DMF 2 mL was added. Then the flask was heated to 130 C. for 30 min. A solution of N 1 3 4 chlorophenyl pent 1 yn 3 yl 1H indol 4 yl N 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl methanesulfonamide 102 mg 0.2 mmol enantiomer A in DMF 1 mL was slowly added to the mixture at 130 C. over 1 h. The resulting mixture was stirred for another 1 h at 130 C. The crude product was purified by Combiflash mobile phase CHCN water 0.08 of NHHCO to give the title compound. LC MS m z 606.7 M Na 

A mixture of the product from Step B 63 mg 0.108 mmol enantiomer A and PtO 2.4 mg 0.0108 mmol in MeOH 3 mL was purged air three times and then backfilled with H. The mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The suspension was filtered off and filtrate was concentrated to give the title compound which was used for next step without purification. LC MS m z 610.7 M Na 

A mixture of the product from step C 20 mg 0.034 mmol enantiomer A 2 M HCl 1 mL and EtOH 2 mL was heated to 50 C. for 3 h. The volatile was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by Combiflash mobile phase MeOH water 0.08 of NHHCO to give the title compound. LC MS m z 458.7 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.50 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.29 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.10 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.05 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.86 t J 8.1 Hz 1H 6.59 6.58 m 2H 6.40 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 3.03 s 3H 2.74 2.67 m 1H 2.55 2.45 m 2H 2.26 2.16 m 1H 1.89 1.86 m 1H 1.45 1.38 m 1H 0.67 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

The activity of the compounds of the present invention regarding mineralocorticoid receptor antagonism can be evaluated using the following assay.

The human MR NH Pro assay is a commercially available PathHunter Protein Protein interaction assay DiscoveRx http www.discoverx.com nhrs prod nhrs.php that measures the ability of compounds to antagonize full length human Mineralocorticoid Receptor MR binding to a coactivator peptide. PathHunter CHO K1 cells that overexpress human MR Cat 93 0456C2 Lot No 09B0913 were cultured in growth media F12K w Glutamine and phenol red Gibco 11765 047 supplemented with 10 HI FBS Gibco 16000 0.25 mg ml Hygromycin in PBS Invitrogen 10687 010 50 mg ml 100 I.U. mL and 100 g mL Pen Strep Gibco 15140 122 0.6 mg mL Geneticin .

Compounds were assessed for MR antagonist activity by incubating the cells with a titrating dose of compound in F12K w Glutamine and phenol red culture media Invitrogen 11765 047 supplemented with 1 Charcoal Dextran Treated FBS Hyclone SH30068.01 and aldosterone 0.3 nM for 6 hours at 37 C. Cells were then treated with DiscoveRx detection reagent for 1 hour at room temperature and read using an Envision luminescence plate reader. activity was measured relative to cells treated with aldosterone alone and ICvalues were calculated using ADA software.

3. 3 PathHunter Detection Reagents Cat 93 0001 need 6 ml plate . Do not freeze and thaw the reagents more than 3 times.

Prepare stock solution 10 M in DMSO kept at 20 C for assay dilute in assay media to 1.8 or 6 nM 6 of final concentration about 0.3 nM to about 1.0 nM 

5. Cell line PathHunter CHO K1 MR cells Cat 93 0456C2 Lot No 09B0913 from operation liquid nitrogen stock.

6. Control Antagonist Spironolactone Sigma S 3378 and Eplerenone Sigma 107724 20 9 10 mM stock concentration also prepared in DMSO and stored at 20 C. .

2. Cells are collected with 0.05 trypsin and the cell suspension is spun and resuspended in a volume of F12 1.5 CD FBS and counted.

7. Aldosterone is diluted in assay media to 1.8 nM or 6 nM from 10 M stock final concentration to be about 0.3 nM to about 1.0 nM 

1. Plate 10K exponentially growing cells well 25 L resuspended in assay media to each well using the Multidrop Thermo Electron use white wall clear bottom assay plates Costar 3570 and incubate overnight at 37 C. 5 CO.

3. Add 5 L 6 agonist final aldosterone concentration should be about 0.3 nM to about 1.0 nM to all wells using the PlateMate Plus. 

LC Conditions 5 98 CHCN HO v 0.1 TFA over 1.25 min Flow Rate 1.5 mL min UV wavelength 254 nm Column Waters XTerra MS C18 3.5 m 2.1 20 mm IS 

As seen in the Examples above compounds of the instant invention that were tested and had an IP value greater than 0 nM but less than 100 nM were given an A rating. Compounds of the instant invention that were tested and had an IP value equal to or greater than 100 nM but less than 500 nM were given a B rating. Compounds of the instant invention that were tested and had an IP value equal to or greater than 500 nM but less than 5 000 nM were given a C rating.

