---

title: System and method for quantum based information transfer
abstract: A system for communicating data comprising sender and receiver subsystems; at least one data input; at least one entangled photon source; first photons of the pairs of entangled photons outputted by the at least one photon source being processed by one of the sender or receiver subsystem; second photons of the pairs of entangled photons being processed by the other of the sender or receiver subsystem; a photonic element configured to receive the first photons of the pairs of entangled photons and enable interference therebetween; at least one absorber configured to absorb the first photons after passage through the beam splitter, the absorbance of the first photons operating to transfer the properties of the entanglement to the second photons of the pairs of entangled photons; and a Bell state measurement element operatively associated with the receiver subsystem configured to measure the second photons of the pairs of entangled photons.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09270385&OS=09270385&RS=09270385
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09270385
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141009
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 948 660 filed Jul. 23 2013 by Ronald E. Meyers and Keith S. Deacon entitled Quantum Based Information Transfer System And Method which is a continuation in part of and claims priority to application Ser. No. 12 705 566 entitled Quantum Based Information Transmission System and Method filed Feb. 12 2010 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 503 885 on Aug. 6 2013 by Ronald E. Meyers and Keith S. Deacon the inventors herein which in turn claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 196 738 filed Aug. 4 2005 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 660 533 on Feb. 9 2010 by Ronald E. Meyers and Keith S. Deacon and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 598 537 filed Aug. 4 2004 all four of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of a royalty.

This invention relates in general to methods and apparatus for processing compression and or transmission of data based upon quantum properties. Quantum properties include quantum entanglement and quantum teleportation of information which is linked to the property of quantum entanglement. Quantum entanglement can exist between any two quantum systems such as between two photons two atomic ionic systems or between a photon and an atom ion based quantum system. The prior art system depicted in is a layout for the demonstration of the Duan Lukin Cirac and Zoller DLCZ protocol 1 wherein laser beams through atomic ensembles L and R generate optical fields 1 and 2 from spontaneous Raman scattering. These optical fields 1 and 2 interfere on a Beam Splitter BS resulting in L and R atomic ensembles becoming entangled. A Bell state measurement is performed with detection by detectors D1 and D2. In a phase stable scheme is proposed for entangling distant atomic ensembles through two photon Hong Ou Mandel type interference. Note that a Bell state measurement is depicted in the center of .

Quantum communications may sometimes be used in conjunction with compression techniques involving the usage of qubits as shown in . Qubits are units of quantum information that may be visualized by a state vector in a two level quantum mechanical system. Unlike a binary classical bit a qubit can have the values of zero or one or a superposition of both. A qubit may be measured in basis states or vectors and a conventional Dirac symbol is used to represent the quantum state values of zero and one herein as for example 0 and 1. For example on a physical qubit this may be implemented by assigning the value 0 to a horizontal photon polarization and the value 1 to the vertical photon polarization. The pure qubit state is a linear superposition of those two states which can be represented as a combination of 0 and 1 or q A 0 B 1 or in generalized form as A 0 and B 1 where Aand Brepresent the corresponding probability amplitudes and A B 1. is a diagrammatic visualization of a three qubit quantum binary tree which has an information storage index space equivalency to eight classical bits i.e. 3 qubits provide an index space of 8. Unlike classical bits a qubit can exhibit quantum properties such as quantum entanglement which allows for higher correlation than that possible in classical systems. A pair of photons which are entangled can be referred to as an entangled photon pair. When one photon of an entangled photon pair is measured the determination of the state of that photon such as polarization or angular momentum in effect determines the state of the other photon of the entangled photon pair since entangled photon pairs are the conjugates of one another. In this example each photon of the entangled pair may be considered a half of the entangled photon pair.

The present invention is directed to a preferred embodiment system for communicating data comprising a sender subsystem a receiver subsystem at least one data input configured to input data into the sender subsystem at least one entangled photon source configured to output entangled photon pairs first photons of the pairs of entangled photons outputted by the at least one photon source being processed by one of the sender or receiver subsystem second photons of the pairs of entangled photons being processed by the other of the sender or receiver subsystem a photonic element configured to receive the first photons of the pairs of entangled photons and enable interference therebetween at least one absorber configured to absorb the first photons of the pairs of entangled photons after passage through the beam splitter the absorbance of the first photons of the pairs of entangled photons operating to transfer the properties of the entanglement to the second photons of the pairs of entangled photons and a Bell state measurement element operatively associated with the receiver subsystem the Bell state measurement element configured to measure the second photons of the pairs of entangled photons.

Optionally either the at least one entangled photon source or the reception of first photons of the pairs of entangled photons by the first beam splitter may be controlled by an operator or computer to enable the transmission of a message. Optionally the photonic element may take the form of a beam splitter and the at least absorber may be at least one detector that is configured to measure the Bell state of the first photons of the pairs of entangled photons passing through the first beam splitter. This measurement would correlate to the Bell state measured by the Bell state measurement element operatively associated with the receiver.

As a further option the system may comprise an interrupt such as a shutter for example controlled by the operator or a computer configured to prevent one or more of the first photons of the pairs of entangled photons from being inputted into the first beam splitter thereby operating to transmit an encoded message. The sender subsystem may further comprise at least one processor operatively associated with the interrupt and the at least one detector and at least one delay element the at least one delay element configured to delay photons such that photons emitted from the at least one entangled photon source at different times are inputted synchronously into the first beam splitter operatively associated with the sender and the Bell state measurement element operatively associated with the receiver.

Optionally the at least one entangled photon source comprises first and second entangled photon sources the first entangled photon source being operatively associated with the sender subsystem and the second entangled photon source being operatively associated with the receiver subsystem. In addition the at least one absorber may comprise at least one detector configured to measure the Bell state such that the measurement of the Bell state of the first photons of the pairs of entangled photons occurs at substantially the same time as the measurement by the Bell state measurement element operatively associated with the receiver subsystem. Optionally delay elements may be positioned within at least one of the sender or receiver subsystems to ensure coincidence of measurements of the Bell states. Optionally sender subsystem further comprises a second beam splitter operatively associated with the at least one entangled photon source the second beam splitter configured to split the first photons into first and second paths the first and second paths operating to pass photons from the second beam splitter to the first beam splitter the second path comprising a first delay element the first delay element being configured such that first photons from the first and second paths enter the first beam splitter synchronously. Optionally the receiver subsystem may further comprise a third beam splitter operatively associated with the at least one entangled photon source the third beam splitter configured to split the second photons into third and fourth paths the third and fourth paths operating to pass photons from the third beam splitter to the Bell state measurement element operatively associated with the receiver subsystem the fourth path comprising a second delay element the second delay element being configured such that second photons from the third and fourth paths enter the Bell State measurement element synchronously.

The present invention is also directed to an alternate preferred embodiment system for communicating data comprising a transmitter subsystem a receiver subsystem at least one data input configured to input data into the transmitter subsystem first second and third entangled photon sources configured to output entangled photon pairs first photons of the pairs of entangled photons outputted by the first second and third entangled photon sources being processed by one of the transmitter or receiver subsystems second photons of the pairs of entangled photons outputted by the first second and third entangled photon sources being processed by the other of the transmitter or receiver subsystems a first Bell state measurement element operatively associated with the transmitter the first Bell state measurement element configured to measure the first photons of the pairs of entangled photons from the first and second entangled photon sources a second Bell state measurement element operatively associated with the receiver system the Bell state measurement element configured to measure the second photons of the pairs of entangled photons from the first and second entangled photon sources a data source for the input of information a third Bell state measurement element operatively associated with the transmitter receiver and the data source the third Bell state measurement element operative to measure photons representing data from the data source in conjunction with the one of pairs of photons from the third photon source a unitary transform device operatively associated with the receiver subsystem the unitary transform device configured to receive the other of the pairs of photons from the third entangled photon source and to output photons representing data from the data source and an output measurement element operatively associated with the receiver the output measurement element configured to measure the outputted photons from the unitary transform device representing data from the data source.

As an option the alternate preferred embodiment may comprise at least one processor operatively connected to the unitary transform device and the second Bell state measurement element wherein upon being measured at the Bell state measurement element the entanglement is transferred from the first of the first photons of the pairs of entangled photons from the first and second photon sources to the second photons of the pairs of entangled photons from the first and second photon sources and wherein the second Bell state measurement element measures the results of the swapped entanglement and transfers the results to the at least one processor which supplies the Bell state measured by the second Bell state measurement element to the unitary transform device which is used to output data from the data source. As a further option the first second and third entangled photon sources may be synchronously emitted. Optionally the alternate preferred embodiment comprises an interrupt configured to prevent one or more of the first photons of the pairs of entangled photons from being measured by the first Bell state measurement device the interrupt being operable to send an encoded message from the sender subsystem to the receiver subsystem.

The present invention is also directed to an alternate preferred embodiment system for communicating data comprising a transmitter subsystem a receiver subsystem a data source configured to input information in the form of qubits the information to be transmitted from the transmitter to the receiver subsystem at least one entangled photon source configured to output entangled photon pairs first photons of the at least one entangled photon sources being inputted into the transmitter subsystem and second photons of the at least one entangled photon source being inputted into to the receiver subsystem a first photonic element having two inputs one input configured for input of a qubit from the data source and one input configured for input of a first photons of pairs of entangled photons from the at least one entangled photon source the first photonic element having two outputs first and second Bell state measurement elements operatively associated with the transmitter subsystem each having first and second inputs and each of the first inputs operatively connected to one of the output ports of the first photonic element the second inputs of the first and second Bell state measurement elements configured to receive first photons from the at least one entangled photon source at least one processor operatively associated with the receiver subsystem and at least one receiver Bell state measurement element operatively associated with the receiver subsystem the at least one receiver Bell state measurement element configured to receive as an input at least one of the second photons of the pairs of photons from the at least one entangled photon source and provide a measurement to the at least one processor whereby through the process of entanglement swapping information is transferred from the first photons to the second photons of the pairs of photons from the at least one entangled photon source and though measurement by the at least one receiver Bell state measurement element information is transferred from the transmitter to the receiver subsystem.

Optionally the first photonic element is a beam splitter and the first and second Bell state measurement devices each comprise at least one beam splitter and at least two detectors. The receiver subsystem may comprise a unitary transform device operatively associated with the at least one processor that is configured to receive as input second photons of the pairs of photons from the at least one entangled photon source the second photons having swapped entanglement from the first photons of the pairs of photons from the at least one entangled photon source such that qubits of data are transferred from the transmitter subsystem to the receiver subsystem through the process of swapped entanglement. When measurement is undertaken at the second Bell state measurement element entanglement is swapped to the second photons of the first entangled photon source at the unitary transform device and the second photons of the second and third entangled photon sources inputted into the receiver Bell state measurement element and the unitary transform device processes the information contained in the second photons from the first entangled photon source in conjunction with information outputted from the receiver Bell state measurement device to derive the information contained in the qubits.

As a further option the alternate preferred embodiment comprises at least one delay element controlled by the at least one processor the first second and receiver Bell state measurement devices are synchronously operated and the at least one processor comprises a first processor operatively associated with the transmitter subsystem and a second processor operatively associated with the receiver subsystem and wherein the first and second processors operate to control the at least one delay element.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skilled in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention.

This description and the accompanying drawings that illustrate inventive aspects and embodiments should not be taken as limiting the claims define the protected invention. Various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of this description and the claims. In some instances well known structures and techniques have not been shown or described in detail in order not to obscure the invention. Additionally the drawings are not to scale. Relative sizes of components are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect the actual sizes that may occur in any actual embodiment of the invention. Like numbers in two or more figures represent the same or similar elements. Elements and their associated aspects that are described in detail with reference to one embodiment may whenever practical be included in other embodiments in which they are not specifically shown or described. For example if an element is described in detail with reference to one embodiment and is not described with reference to a second embodiment the element may nevertheless be claimed as included in the second embodiment.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second entangled photon regions these terms are only used to distinguish one entangled photon source region element component layer or section from another source region element component layer or section. Thus a first source region element component layer or section discussed below could be termed a second source region element component layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

A quantum tree for the communication of information using qubits is depicted in B C and D. In the example shown 3 qubits represent 8 classical data bins. The number of qubits may be changed without departing from the scope and principles of the present invention. As the first qubit is transmitted a measurement takes place and the result is inputted into computer such as that illustrated in et seq. Based upon this measurement as illustrated by the decision tree of either the left L or right R portion of qubit 2 is not used or transmitted . Following the transmission of the portion of qubit 2 another measurement takes place and the result is inputted into computer . Based upon this measurement as illustrated by the decision tree of either branch A1 or A2 is followed. In the example shown in where the first and second measured values were zeroes the qubit portions represented by the nodes at the dotted line branches are unused and not transmitted.

In preferred embodiments shown in a quantum Fourier transform is performed on the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state using optical components comprising interferometers or as depicted in the respective figures to yield a quantum computational product. A quantum Hadamard transform may be performed on the quantum computational product to yield one of two possible quantum particle outputs via half wave plate . Through feedback circuitry the input data set is processed based upon the coincident arrival of the comparator wave function state and one of the two quantum particle outputs. Data compression and transmission in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention may be performed on either a quantum computer or a digital computer.

Due to the properties of the qubits the systems of employ the quantum Fourier transform QFT and a classical or quantum inverse Fourier transform in the measurement process. Data inputted in the form of a wave function generated using for example amplitudes of a given signal is converted into a quantum state or qubits over which in a preferred embodiment of the present invention transforms such as the quantum Fourier transform QFT operate. The conversion of the wave function to a quantum state represented by qubits is described for example in Gui Long Yang Sun Efficient scheme for initializing a quantum register with an arbitrary superposed state Physical Review A Volume 64 014303 2001 herein incorporated by reference . The quantum Fourier transform is implemented by a series of optical elements implementing quantum operations followed by a measurement as described for example in Robert B. Griffiths et al. Semiclassical Fourier Transform for Quantum Computation Physical Review Letters Apr. 22 1996 herein incorporated by reference . Although a particular embodiment is described other equivalent formulations processes and configurations are encompassed within the scope of the invention.

In terms of data flow a preferred methodology comprises splitting a wave function representative of an input data set into an arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state and a comparator wave function state the comparator wave function state being transmitted to a detector. In the embodiments of a quantum Fourier transform is performed on the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state to yield a quantum computational product. A quantum Hadamard transform is performed on the quantum computational product to yield one of two possible quantum particle outputs. Through feedback circuitry the input data set is processed based upon the coincident arrival of the comparator wave function state and one of the two quantum particle outputs. Data compression and transmission in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention may be performed on either a quantum computer or a digital computer.

A data communication system operating on quantum computation principles includes a light source having a photon output coding an input data set. A Type I or Type II nonlinear crystal converts the photon output into an entangled photon output. An arbitrarily oriented polarization state is assured by passing the entangled photon output through a polarization modulator and a phase modulator . A polarization interferometer performs a controlled phase shift transform on the arbitrarily oriented polarization state as an interferometer output. The embodiments of substitute an interferometer having the geometry of a polarization Mach Zehnder interferometer and the embodiments of substitute an interferometer having the geometry of a Michelson interferometer. A half wave plate then performs a quantum Hadamard gate transform to generate one of two possible photon states from the interferometer output thus completing the operations required for a quantum Fourier transform. Coincidence electronics reconstruct the input data set a distance from the light source. The reconstruction is based on the coincident arrival of the one of two possible photon states and at least one of the entangled photon output or the interferometer output. The result is then fed back via computer and associated circuitry whereupon the computer in conjunction with polarization modulator and a phase modulator based upon the branch determinations processes only portions of the succeeding qubits resulting in reduction in the amount of data which is transmitted.

By way of background Long G. et al. Efficient scheme for initializing a quantum register with an arbitrary superposed state Physical Review A vol. 64 Issue 1 014303 2001 hereinafter Long et al. hereby incorporated by reference discloses a scheme that can most generally initialize a quantum register with an arbitrary superposition of basis states as a step in quantum computation and quantum information processing. Long et al. went beyond a simple quantum state such as i i i . . . i with ibeing either 0 or 1 to construct an arbitrary superposed quantum state. Long et al. utilized the implementation of O Nn standard 1 and 2 bit gate operations without introducing additional quantum bits. Long et al. presents a general scheme that initializes a quantum register without introducing additional qubits wherein the quantum circuit of a 3 qubit system transforms the state 1000 to an arbitrary superposed state with N 2basis states. The terminology arbitrary superposed quantum state as used herein correlates to the construction of an arbitrary superposed quantum state as described inter alia in Long et al.

As depicted in a series of optical elements are provided to act as quantum operators followed by a measurement to implement the quantum Fourier transform. A more detailed description of the use of the Fourier transform is found in Griffiths R. et al. Semiclassical Fourier Transform for Quantum Computation Physical Review Letters 76 3328 3231 1996 herein incorporated by reference . An optical bench with appropriate electronics is well suited to function as a quantum computer for the compression and transmission of data corresponding to sound. Those of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that although an optical bench is described as the platform for generating and performing operations on qubits it is appreciated that three plus qubit quantum computers are known to the art such as for example those computers utilized in conjunction with ion trapping and the nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer. Although sound is used as an example for the data set amplitudes represented by a quantum wave function the present invention is not limited to sound.

A wave function in quantum mechanics describes the quantum state of a particle as a function of space and time. The laws of quantum mechanics such as for example the Schr dinger equation describe how the wave function evolves over time. The symbol for a wave function is a complex valued function however is real and corresponds to the probability density of finding a particle in a given place at a given time if the particle s position is measured.

In conjunction with the present invention the wave function may be coded into qubits of quantum particles. Preferably the quantum particles are photons but trapped ions or magnetic spin states can also be utilized to practice the principles of the present invention.

A preferred method of the present invention may utilize qubits in a quantum computer setting or the simulation of qubits in a classical computer. Qubits comprise superpositions of ones and zeros where both simultaneously exist. Photons that define the wave function may be subjected to a quantum Fourier transform operation. In the process the photons are measured thereby destroying the quantum state but providing the measured probability in terms of wave function and its complex conjugate 1 

In the embodiments of an inverse Fourier transform FT is then applied to the square root of the measured probability to recover a lossy intelligible data compression in the form of quantum particle detection. The inverse Fourier transform may be either a classical or quantum transform. A classical fast Fourier transform is readily performed by optical bench elements or through a classical computer program. The forward and inverse transforms are conducted using a relatively small sample of the wave function Fourier modes which has the property of preserving much of the intelligibility of the data while providing a compression and communication efficiency. Using the quantum computing simulation on a classical computer according to the present invention a sound data set for example is intelligibly reproduced with a lossy compression factor utilizing a classical computation. Computational efficiency with the present invention may be increased by increasing the set of qubits. In practice the inventive method allows for the transmission of information over a long path using a small number of photons. Data transmission with a small number of photons carrying the data in a quantum particle form is amenable to free optical path transmission through air or vacuum through optical fibers and via satellite transmission.

Communication between remote locations can be accomplished utilizing a comparatively small number of qubits of quantum particles relative to the data exchanged. Photons are amenable to transit in an environment exposed to climactic weather between the locations. It is appreciated that co linear transmission of a comparator wave function state and an information carrying state facilitates long range data transmission.

A data set is modeled by or in the form of a wave function. Using sound transmission as an example the sound is characterized by intensity amplitudes at uniformly spaced intervals

A superimposed quantum form is applied to the sound data set to facilitate quantum computer manipulation. To accomplish the quantification data amplitudes are equated to a wave function in the form of a series

To account for the quantum superposition the quantum data is organized in terms of a conventional quantum binary tree. A prior art quantum binary tree is depicted as a branching between 0 and 1 outcomes for successive steps in . Using the qubit representation shown in the first step is to determine whether a one or zero exists at the first branch located at the top of the triangle depicted in . If a zero value is present Branch A is followed and the right side of the triangle or the Branch B becomes unnecessary to future determinations. Elimination of either the A Branch or B Branch results in data compression inasmuch as the remaining ones or zeros in the A or B Branch need not be considered. is a depiction of the second level branching following the determination depicted to the left in . If the value is zero Branch A1 is followed. If the value is one Branch A2 is followed. In each case the other branch is eliminated resulting in data compression. is a depiction of the third level branching following the determination depicted to the left in . If the value is zero Branch A4 is followed. If the value is one Branch A5 is followed. In each case the other branch is eliminated resulting in further data compression. The particular values selected for depiction in are merely exemplary. Results of a one determination at first level are not shown in to make the diagram easier to follow. Results of a one determination at the second level are not shown in to make the diagram easier to follow.

The outcomes of the successive steps sum to the values 0 through 2 1 where n is the number of qubits. The means of obtaining the 0 or 1 depends on the specific experimental and corresponding simulation implementation. There are several conventional rules that are possible for determining the 0 or 1 value. For example a 0 state may correspond to a horizontal measurement and the 1 may correspond to a vertical measurement or the reverse may be true. In general the series of qubit measurements are prepared such that each value of the state preparation is conditioned to determine the 0 or 1 at each branch. An alternate qubit architecture operative herein is termed winner takes all. In the simulation depicted in Quantum Binary Tree n qubit measurements are made. The n value is determinative of the first branch.

The 2 where n is the number of qubits are divided into two parts lower 0 to 2 2 1 and higher indices 2 2 to 2 1. The side with the greatest sum of the indices measured determines the path of the first branch. The second level branch has one half the number of indices of the first branch. Consecutive indices assigned are from the selected half from the first branch. The same process is used for the second branch level as from the first branch but with half of the indices. This process repeats until all the branching is determined and the selected single index is determined. The quantum binary tree depicted in prior art for three qubits provides an index space of eight. The quantum binary tree is expandable to n qubits which is equivalent to an index space of 2over which transforms such as the Quantum Fourier Transform QFT operate.

The quantum superposition amplitudes at any qubit level in the binary tree may be constructed from for example sound amplitudes

The amplitudes are approximated in the quantum computation by identification with probabilities which can then be sampled. For one realization it is noted that and 11 and 12 where is the product of a sequence operator. The classical index k is given in terms of the quantum qubit indices n of the quantum binary tree made of n qubits

Superpositions of qubits are used to store and process data such as sound. The amplitude of the data can be stored as the amplitudes of a superposed quantum state 15 where k is the eigenstate of the wavefunction . The term can be decomposed as a direct product of qubits 16 which compacts storage requirements by a factor of log 2 relative to a classical computation. A data set of size 2can be stored and operated on in n quantum bits. Mathematical transforms can also be performed on the quantum stored signal with the associated computational savings. Quantum Computational System

Preferred embodiments for the system for quantum data compression and transmission that are preferably performed using photons as quantum particle qubits will now be described. In the preferred embodiments of the present invention depicted in like numerals described with reference to subsequent figures correspond to previously detailed elements.

Referring now to a preferred embodiment is depicted generally at . A data encoder converts the data set to a set of qubit amplitudes that satisfies the expression of Equation 15 and triggers a light source accordingly. The light source may be a laser such as Nd YAG ion lasers diode lasers excimer lasers dye lasers and frequency modified lasers. Photons in path emitted from the light source are optionally passed through a spatial filter . Filter converts the photons in path in an image space domain to a spatial frequency domain and serves the purpose of removing for example stripe noise of low frequency and or high frequency noise. Examples of noise associated with the system comprise fluctuations typically include line noise powering the light source thermal gradients detector noise and inherent quantum noise. The photons having passed through spatial filter are then passed through a Type II nonlinear optics crystal . Examples of Type II nonlinear optic crystals that may be utilized include potassium dihydrogen phosphate potassium titanyl phosphate beta barium borate cesium lithium borate and adamantyl amino nitro pyridine. An optional dichroic mirror or bandpass filter that is operative to transmit specified wavelengths and reflect all others is used to selectively reflect out of the beam path those photons that have reflected wavelengths as a result of passing through the crystal into a stop . After passage through mirror the remaining entangled photons are split by interaction with a polarization beam splitter into two paths a known photon state path and a comparator wave function state path . The comparator wave function state path is directed onto a single photon counting module by an optional mirror set . It is appreciated that a reorganization of beam paths in the system obviates the need for mirror set . The detection of the photons from the comparator wave function state path by the single photon counting module is fed to coincidence electronics and is used to reconstruct the data set. The entangled photons in the known photon state path are then passed through a polarization modulator and a phase modulator . Exemplary polarization phase modulators illustratively include liquid crystals Kerr cells and Pockel cells. Preferably a series of two liquid crystal devices and a quarter wave plate may be used to achieve arbitrary polarization. Upon the entangled photons known photon state path interacting with the polarization and phase modulators and respectively the entangled photons are transformed into an arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state for passage via path based on the data set signal being transformed and any previously measured photon state if any is known. Note that both the polarization modulator and phase modulator are controlled by processor or computer which in turn is connected via lines to the coincidence electronics . The entangled photons in the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state passing via path are optionally reflected from a mirror and then enter a polarization interferometer depicted generally at . The interferometer has the geometry of a polarization Mach Zehnder interferometer and includes a polarization beam splitter that transmits one portion to a phase modulator resulting in a phase shift in the light component reaching polarization beam splitter relative to the other polarization component . Polarization beam splitter recombines beam components and to complete a controlled phase shift transform on the recombined state from the interferometer . Three ancillary mirrors each numbered are provided to reflect light in desired directions. The controlled phase shift transformed light component representing a recombined phase state then interacts with a half wave plate oriented at 22.5 degrees in order to implement a quantum Hadamard gate transformation therein and thus complete a quantum Fourier transform. The half wave plate provides a qubit prioritized input to a polarization beam splitter . Note that the half wave plate may optionally be positioned following the Unitary Transformation circuitry as shown by dotted lines .

The process that computes the Quantum Fourier Transform QFT of a signal may be described as follows. First the computer or device that holds the signal divides the signal into a series of sections. Each section contains N samples of the signal. This section of N samples is then used to prepare the first qubit. As shown in one qubit is representative of 8 contemporary bits as illustrated by the base of the quantum binary tree. In accordance with a preferred embodiment the qubit of the quantum state utilizes a prescribed technique for the Quantum Fourier Transform. This quantum state is then passed though a device that applies a particular phase shift via phase shifters appropriate to this qubit of the Quantum Fourier Transform. The qubit is then measured and the result of that measurement is recorded as a 0 or 1. This measurement is also used to determine which half of the N samples of the current signal section are used as a subsection to prepare the next qubit as the other half is not needed to prepare the next qubit for reasons described above in connection with . This qubit and all the remaining qubits generated for the original signal section are prepared and measured in a similar way with each qubit measurement using only half of the remaining signal subsection to prepare the next qubit. This process ends when the last qubit that is prepared using only 2 samples of the signal section. When all these qubits have been measured for one section a binary number remains that results in the adding of 1 to the bin addressed by that binary number for instance the binary number 010 would indicate address 2 and the binary number 110 would indicate address 6. These steps are repeated a number of times on the same signal section to generate a power spectrum representation of the signal section. Signal processing techniques such as a classical inverse Fourier transform or compressive sensing sampling can be used on this power spectrum to reconstruct the initial signal section in a lossy but still recognizable manner.

In the Quantum Fourier Transform a number of photons each with prepared qubit states are sent sequentially through quantum controlled phase transforms followed by quantum Hadamard transforms associated with the half wave plate . The state preparation is accomplished by setting the values of the phase and setting the photons to particular elliptical polarization values.

The Hadamard transform is a quantum transform operating on one qubit at a time. The Hadamard transform in connection with the embodiments of may be performed after the unitary transformation operation or in the alternative after the interferometers or as depicted in the respective figures. The Hadamard gate transform is given as

Hadamard transforms in the order of the most significant qubit to the least significant qubit. The initial state of each photon qubit is conditioned on the previously measured values of prior photon measurements.

A single photon is operated upon by a Hadamard transform with the effect of Hadamard transforms on multiple photons representing an entire wave function is represented by the combined Hadamard transform.

The total wave function made of arbitrary superposed states is operated on by the combined Hadamard transform 19 where 20 Here the direct product of the identities is repeated until all of the qubits are taken into account.

With reference now to single photon counting modules and count individual photons with a different given polarization respectively and report a counting event to coincidence electronics . Only when coincidence is noted between a photon counting event at module and or between module and module is the count considered a valid probability density function measurement. The probability density function is defined by 21 where represents the wave function and is the complex conjugate of the wavefunction and sets the number of times on the average that a photon lands in an index space interval. For n qubits there are 2index space intervals . provides an example of the index space for 3 qubits .

A determination as to the polarization of each photon is provided by signal measurement at one of the single photon counting modules and . The polarization of each photon is measured by the counting modules which represent the end of the photon path through the Hadamard gate and electro optics. If horizontal 0 is measured for example by single photon counting module then no phase operations are applied to the remaining qubits. Otherwise a controlled phase operation Ris applied to remaining operations. Note that the phase polarization and phase modulator are controlled by the computer or processor which is connected to the coincident circuitry which is in turn receives the outputs of the detectors . The Rset is defined as

Turning to another facet of the preferred embodiments depicted in as an option quantum teleportation of information may be utilized. Quantum teleportation refers to the exact transfer of quantum information a qubit from one location to another without that qubit being transmitted directly through the space between the sender and the receiver. As an example this can be accomplished by the sender and the receiver each sharing one half of an entangled quantum system. When the sender wishes to send a qubit quantum teleportation the sender will perform a Bell measurement with their half of the shared entangled quantum system and the qubit to be transferred to the receiver. The outcome of the Bell measurement will be sent to the receiver over classical channels and consists of two bits. In each of a unitary transformation operation is performed in element . The following analysis applies to each of with respect to Unitary Transformation element . When the receiver gets the two bits from the detectors the receiver then applies to the receiver s remaining portion of the initially shared entangled state one of four unitary operations depending upon what the two bits indicate. Typically these operations can be represented by a matrix and correspond to the Identity matrix and three other matrices. For example 

With reference now to though shown therein are entangled photon source that provides a source for entangled photons P1 and P2. For ease of understanding the second entangled photon P2 is repeated as an input into the Bell state measurement element represented by the square with a diagonal line . The Bell states are a concept in quantum information science representing an EPR pair i.e. a pair of qubits which jointly are in a Bell state that is entangled with each other. In the embodiments of for the Bell state measurement element the entangled photon pair are the entangled photon P2 and the informational photon passing via the path in and through the half wave plate in . Note that as discussed above the informational photon may have passed though the half wave plate which implements a quantum Hadamard gate transformation thereon. In the Bell state measurement element the joint measurement takes place between the entangled photon P2 and the informational photon. This interaction is depicted in also with photon P2 and qubit Q1. In the case of though the qubit Q1 is the resultant of the interferometers or . The determination of the Bell measurement a joint quantum mechanical measurement of two qubits that determines which of the four Bell states the two qubits are in is recorded by the photodetectors also referred to as the two bit measurement. In the context of the entangled photons being separated with photon Pb being at the receiving side and the photon P2 being at the sender information contained in the qubit Q1 may be transmitted from the sender to the receiver with only the two bit measurement being physically transmitted. That is the information contained in the qubit Q1 as shown in appears on the receiving side bottom left of due to the quantum properties of entanglement. Specifically entangled photon P1 enters a unitary transformation at element referred to as a unitary transformation operation wherein the result or output is the information contained on qubit Q1 by detectors and . Thus the information contained in qubit Q1 is passed from the sender to the receiver with only the physical transfer of the two bit measurement via classical channels. Thus data relating to how to perform the Bell state measurement is transferred while the properties of entanglement between photons P1 and P2 result in the transference of information by teleportation of information i.e. when the photon P2 encounters the qubit Q1 in the Bell state measurement element the other photon P1 is effected by the encounter so as to in effect impart information from qubit Q1 to the entangled P1 P2 photon state. Photons P1 and P2 may be significant distances from each other and still achieve the effects of entanglement.

Note that while the entanglement of two photons is shown in and the concept is shown in alternative uses of entanglement are represented in . In instead of entangled photons P1 and P2 an entangled atom pair A1 and A2 is illustrated. Similar circuitry from may be utilized in conjunction with the implementation of the embodiments of to integrate or substitute the atom pair A1 A2 for the photon pair P1 P2 of . is similar to but includes an optical delay .

It is noted that with respect to the Bell state measurement for entanglement using a single qubit variable difficulties are presented when only three distinct classes out of four Bell states are generally distinguishable. By using multiple qubit variables for example polarization orbital angular momentum or energy states tracing or redundancy of variables can be used to in effect achieve complete Bell state measurements.

Referring now to preferred embodiment system has numerous features in common with that system depicted in and such attributes share like numerals with those detailed with respect to . In a data encoder converts the data set to a set of qubit amplitudes that satisfies the expression of Equation 15 and triggers a light source accordingly. The light source may be a laser such as Nd YAG ion lasers diode lasers excimer lasers dye lasers and frequency modified lasers. Photons in path emitted from the light source are optionally passed through a spatial filter . Filter converts the photons in path in an image space domain to a spatial frequency domain and serves the purpose of removing for example stripe noise of low frequency and or high frequency noise as described above in connection with . The photons represented by path having passed through spatial filter are then passed through a Type II nonlinear optics crystal as described in connection with . An optional dichroic mirror or bandpass filter that is operative to transmit specified wavelengths and reflect all others is used to selectively reflect out of the beam path those photons that have reflected wavelengths as a result of passing through the crystal into a stop . After passage through mirror the remaining entangled photons are split by interaction with a polarization beam splitter into two paths a known photon state path and a comparator wave function state path . The comparator wave function state path is directed onto a single photon counting module by an optional mirror set . It is appreciated that a reorganization of beam paths in the system obviates the need for mirror set . The detection of the photons from the comparator wave function state path by the single photon counting module is fed to coincidence electronics and is used to reconstruct the data set. The entangled photons in the known photon state path are then passed through a polarization modulator and a phase modulator . Exemplary polarization phase modulators illustratively include liquid crystals Kerr cells and Pockel cells. Preferably a series of two liquid crystal devices and a quarter wave plate may be used to achieve arbitrary polarization. The polarization modulator and a phase modulator are each controlled by a computer or processor which may be connected via lines to coincidence detecting circuitry . Note that the coincidence circuitry has an input from the photon counting module . Upon the entangled photons known photon state path interacting with the polarization and phase modulators and respectively the entangled photons are transformed into an arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state for passage via path based on the data set signal being transformed and any previously measured photon state if any being known. The photons in the path are referenced in connection with B and as corresponding to the qubit Q1. The entangled photons in the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state passing via path are optionally reflected from a mirror and then enter a polarization interferometer depicted generally within the dotted lines labeled .

In contrast to system depicted in the system includes an interferometer shown generally at that has the geometry of a polarization Michelson interferometer. The interferometer receives orthogonally polarized entangled photon pairs from the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state path incident on a polarization beam splitter that splits the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state with one component of the polarization phase shifted at phase modulator relative to the other polarization component . The polarization component interacts with a quarter wave plate two times rotating polarization by 90 degrees. Phase component is then reflected from mirror back to polarization beam splitter where the phase component is recombined with phase shifted polarization component that has passed through polarization modulator a quarter wave plate two times rotating the polarization by 90 degrees and returning to polarization beam splitter through reflection from translating mirror . It is appreciated that the phase modulator is readily removed and the phase difference applied to phase shifted polarization component is imparted by the translating mirror . Phase modulator is connected to the computer processor and coincidence circuitry via line path . Regardless of the specific components of interferometer the recombined state is reflected off mirror and further manipulated as detailed with respect to such that a valid probability density function measurement is only counted upon coincidence between photon detection at modules and or between modules and .

The controlled phase shift transformed entangled photon wavefunction components representing a recombined phase state in path of the qubit Q1 then interacts with a half wave plate oriented at 22.5 degrees in order to implement a quantum Hadamard gate transformation therein and thus complete a quantum Fourier transform.

Continuing to the left side of entangled photon source provides entangled photons P1 and P2. In the drawing for explanatory purposes the second entangled photon P2 is repeated as an input into the Bell state measurement element represented by the square with a diagonal line . Within the Bell state measurement element entangled photon P2 and the informational qubit Q1 passing via the path interact via quantum interference. Note that as discussed above the informational photon may have passed though the half wave plate which implements a quantum Hadamard gate transformation thereon. In the Bell state measurement element the measurement takes place between the entangled photon P2 and the informational photon. This interaction is depicted in which depicts photon P2 and qubit Q1 undergoing a joint Bell state measurement. In the case of though the qubit Q1 is the resultant of the interferometers or . The determination of the Bell measurement a joint quantum mechanical measurement of two qubits determines which of the four Bell states the two qubit system Q1 and P2 exist. This is recorded by the photodetectors and the results are referred to herein as the two bit measurement. 

In the general context of the entangled photons P1 and P2 being separated with photon P1 being at the receiving side and the photon P2 being at the sender information contained in the qubit Q1 may be transmitted from the sender to the receiver with only the two bit measurement recorded by detectors being physically transmitted. That is the information contained in the qubit Q1 as shown in appears on the receiving side bottom left of due to the quantum properties of entanglement. Specifically entangled photon P1 enters a unitary transformation at element labeled unitary transformation operation wherein the result or output is the information contained on qubit Q1 by detectors and after passage through half mirror .

As explained in the foregoing regarding the unitary transformation operation when the sender wishes to send a qubit quantum teleportation the sender will perform a Bell measurement with sender s half of the shared entangled quantum system and the qubit to be transferred to the receiver at elements . The outcome of the Bell measurement will be sent to the receiver over classical channels and consists of two bits. When the receiver gets the two bits transferred via computer to the unitary transformation element the receiver applies to their remaining portion of the initially shared entangled state one of four unitary operations depending upon what the two bits indicate. Typically these operations can be represented by a matrix and correspond to the Identity matrix and three other matrices. For example 

Thus the information contained in qubit Q1 is passed from the sender to the receiver with only the physical transfer of the two bit measurement via classical channels. Thus data relating to how to perform the Bell state measurement is transferred while the properties of entanglement between photons P1 and P2 result in the transference of information by teleportation of information i.e. when the photon P2 encounters the qubit Q1 in the Bell state measurement element the other photon P1 is effected by the encounter so as to in effect impart information from qubit Q1 to the entangled photons P1 and P2 simultaneously. Photons P1 and P2 may be significant distances from each other and still achieve the effects of entanglement i.e. P1 is impacted by the conditions affecting P2.

The half wave plate provides a qubit prioritized input to a polarization beam splitter . Note that the half wave plate may optionally be positioned following the Unitary Transformation circuitry as shown by dotted lines .

Referring now to a system is depicted generally at the system has numerous features in common with that system depicted in and such attributes share like numerals with those detailed with respect to .

Specifically as shown in a data encoder converts the data set to a set of qubit amplitudes that satisfies the expression of Equation 15 i.e. the amplitude of the data is stored as the amplitudes of a superposed quantum state kand triggers a light source accordingly.

The light source may be a laser such as Nd YAG ion lasers diode lasers excimer lasers dye lasers and frequency modified lasers. Photons in path emitted from the light source are optionally passed through a spatial filter . Filter converts the photons in path in an image space domain to a spatial frequency domain and serves the purpose of removing for example stripe noise of low frequency and or high frequency noise as described above in connection with . The photons represented by path having passed through spatial filter are then passed through a Type II nonlinear optics crystal . An optional dichroic mirror or bandpass filter that is operative to transmit specified wavelengths and reflect all others is used to selectively reflect out of the beam path those photons that have reflected wavelengths as a result of passing through the crystal into a stop . Whatever photon goes through will be wavelength shifted such that the sum of energies is equal to the parent photon. After passage through half mirror the remaining entangled photons are split by interaction with a polarization beam splitter into two paths a known photon state path and a comparator wave function state path . The comparator wave function state path is directed onto a single photon counting module by an optional mirror set . It is appreciated that a reorganization of beam paths in the system obviates the need for mirror set . The detection of the photons from the comparator wave function state path by the single photon counting module is fed to coincidence electronics and is used to reconstruct the data set at the receiver end. The entangled photons in the known photon state path are then passed through a polarization modulator and a phase modulator . Exemplary polarization phase modulators illustratively include liquid crystals Kerr cells and Pockel cells. Preferably a series of two liquid crystal devices and a quarter wave plate may be used to achieve arbitrary polarization. Upon the entangled photons known photon state path interacting with the polarization and phase modulators and respectively the photons Q1 are transformed into an arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state for passage via path based on the data set signal being transformed and any previously measured photon state if any is known. The photons Q1 in the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state passing via path are optionally reflected from a mirror and then enter a polarization interferometer depicted generally at .

Unlike the system depicted in and system depicted in the system includes an interferometer shown generally at that has the geometry of a polarization Sagnac interferometer. The arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state is split at polarization beam splitter to phase shift a polarization component through interaction with a phase modulator . A second component is recombined with the phase shifted component through coincidental reflection with the mirrors collectively labeled . The recombined state is reflected by mirror onto a half wave plate to implement a quantum Hadamard gate transformation.

Continuing to the left side of entangled photon source provides entangled photons P1 and P2. In the drawing for explanatory purposes the second entangled photon P2 is repeated as an input into the Bell state measurement element represented by the square with a diagonal line . Within the Bell state measurement element entangled photon P2 and the informational qubit Q1 interact via quantum interference. Note that as discussed above the informational photon may have passed though the half wave plate which implements a quantum Hadamard gate transformation thereon. In the Bell state measurement element the measurement takes place between the entangled photon P2 and the informational photon. This interaction is depicted in which depicts photon P2 and qubit Q1 undergoing a joint Bell state measurement. The determination of the Bell measurement a joint quantum mechanical measurement of two qubits determines which of the four Bell states the two qubit system Q1 and P2 exist. This is recorded by the photodetectors and the results are referred to herein as the two bit measurement. The transfer of these two bits via lines may be accomplished by first passing the two bits through an optional computer for input into the unitary transformation element .

It is noted again that in the general context of the entangled photons P1 and P2 being separated with photon P1 being at the receiving side and the photon P2 being at the sender information contained in the qubit Q1 may be transmitted from the sender to the receiver with only the two bit measurement recorded by detectors being physically transmitted. The half wave plate provides a qubit prioritized input to a polarization beam splitter . Note that the half wave plate may optionally be positioned following the Unitary Transformation circuitry as shown by dotted lines .

As explained in the foregoing regarding the unitary transformation operation when the sender wishes to send a qubit quantum teleportation the sender will perform a Bell measurement with sender s half of the shared entangled quantum system and the qubit to be transferred to the receiver at elements . The outcome of the Bell measurement will be sent to the receiver over classical channels and consists of two bits. When the receiver gets the two bits transferred via computer to the unitary transformation element the receiver applies to their remaining portion of the initially shared entangled state one of four unitary operations depending upon what the two bits indicate. Typically these operations can be represented by a matrix and correspond to the Identity matrix and three other matrices. For example 

Continuing in the left side of single photon counting modules and count individual photons with a given polarization and report a counting event to coincidence electronics . Only when coincidence is noted between a photon counting event at module and or between module and module is the count considered a valid probability density function measurement.

Referring now to an alternate preferred embodiment system is depicted generally at that is a Type I nonlinear optics crystal analog. A data encoder coverts the data set to a set of qubit amplitudes that satisfies the expression of Equation 15 and triggers a light source accordingly. Photons in path emitted from the light source are optionally passed through a spatial filter . Filter converts the photons in path in an image space domain to a spatial frequency domain and serves the purpose of removing for example stripe noise of low frequency and or high frequency noise. Photons in path emitted from the light source are optionally passed through a spatial filter . The photons having passed through spatial filter are then passed through a Type I nonlinear crystal generates entangled photon pairs with the same known polarization from photons . Type I nonlinear optical crystals operative herein illustratively include beta barium borate potassium niobate lithium triborate and cesium lithium borate. Preferably the crystal is tuned for non degenerative down conversion with regard to dichroic mirror . Dichroic mirror is tuned to reflect one of the entangled pair and pass the other. The entangled photon pair Q1 Q2 with same known polarization is separated by an optional dichroic mirror or bandpass filter that is operative to transmit specified wavelengths and reflect all others which is used to selectively reflect out of the path those photons that have reflected wavelengths as a result of passing through the crystal into a stop . The nearly monochromatic known polarization beam comprising photons or qubits Q1 Q2 is incident on polarization beam splitter and that component with a known photon state is directed through a polarization modulator a phase modulator to yield an arbitrarily oriented polarization state that is optionally reflected off mirror and into interferometer that has the geometry of a polarization Mach Zehnder interferometer. Second photon state is directed onto beam stop . The arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state retains characteristics of the data set signal to be subsequently transformed in any previously measured photon state if such is known. The interferometer depicted has the geometry of a polarization Mach Zehnder interferometer and includes a polarization beam splitter that transmits one portion to a phase modulator resulting in a phase shift in the light component reaching polarization beam splitter relative to the other polarization component . Polarization beam splitter recombines beam components and to complete a quantum Fourier transform on the recombined state from the interferometer . Ancillary mirrors collectively number are provided to reflect light in desired directions. The recombined state is such that one of the photons of an entangled photon pair is reflected by dichroic mirror to single photon counting module while the other photon of the entangled photon pair will be transmitted onto the half wave plate .

Continuing to the left side of entangled photon source provides entangled photons P1 and P2. In the drawing for explanatory purposes the second entangled photon P2 is repeated as an input into the Bell state measurement element represented by the square with a diagonal line . Within the Bell state measurement element entangled photon P2 and the informational qubit Q1 which passes through the interferometer and which passes via the path interact via quantum interference. Note that as discussed above the informational photon may have passed though the half wave plate which implements a quantum Hadamard gate transformation thereon. In the Bell state measurement element the entanglement takes place between the entangled photon P2 and the informational photon. This interaction is depicted in which depicts photon P2 and qubit Q1 undergoing a joint Bell state measurement. The determination of the Bell measurement a joint quantum mechanical measurement of two qubits determines which of the four Bell states the two qubit system Q1 and P2 exists. This is recorded by the photodetectors and the results are referred to herein as the two bit measurement. 

It is noted again that in the general context of the entangled photons P1 and P2 being separated with photon P1 being at the receiving side and the photon P2 being at the sender information contained in the qubit Q1 may be transmitted from the sender to the receiver with only the two bit measurement recorded by detectors being physically transmitted. The half wave plate provides a qubit prioritized input to a polarization beam splitter . Note that the half wave plate may optionally be positioned following the Unitary Transformation circuitry as shown by dotted lines .

As explained in the foregoing regarding the unitary transformation operation when the sender wishes to send a qubit quantum teleportation the sender will perform a Bell measurement with sender s half of the shared entangled quantum system and the qubit to be transferred to the receiver at elements . The outcome of the Bell measurement will be sent to the receiver over classical channels and consists of two bits. When the receiver gets the two bits transferred via computer to the unitary transformation element the receiver applies to their remaining portion of the initially shared entangled state one of four unitary operations depending upon what the two bits indicate. Typically these operations can be represented by a matrix and correspond to the Identity matrix and three other matrices. For example 

Continuing in the left side of single photon counting modules and count individual photons with a given polarization and report a counting event to coincidence electronics . Only when coincidence is noted between a photon counting event at module and or between module and module is the count considered a valid probability density function measurement. Note that in all embodiments of one result of detectors is the determination of which branch or whether or not a branch will be undertaken the finishing stage of the QFT of the branches depicted in with respect to the Quantum Binary Tree. Moreover the result is represented by Q1 in . The representation Q1 refers to the transferred photon information state and can be many bits per photon transferred.

Referring now to a Type I nonlinear optical crystal analog system is depicted. A data encoder converts the data set to a set of qubit amplitudes that satisfies the expression of Equation 15 and triggers a light source accordingly. Photons in path emitted from the light source are optionally passed through a spatial filter . The photons having passed through spatial filter are then passed through a Type I nonlinear crystal that generates entangled photon pairs Q1 Q2 with the same known polarization via path . Preferably the crystal is tuned for non degenerative down conversion with regard to dichroic mirror that is operative to separate the non degenerate down converted wavelengths. The entangled photon pairs Q1 Q2 with same known polarization in path is separated from reflected frequency shifted components in path by optional dichroic mirror or bandpass filter that are terminated at beam stop . The nearly monochromatic known polarization beam in path is incident on polarization beam splitter and that component with a known photon state in path is directed through a polarization modulator a phase modulator to yield an arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state entangled photons in path that are reflected off mirror and into an interferometer shown generally at that has the geometry of a polarization Michelson interferometer. The arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state in path retains characteristics of the data set signal to be subsequently transformed in any previously measured photon state if such is known. The interferometer is identical to the interferometer in . The interferometer receives the photon pairs Q1 Q2 in the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state on path incident on a polarization beam splitter that splits the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state photon wavefunctions Q1 and Q2 in path with one component of the polarization wavefunction for Q1 and Q2 in path 183 phase shifted at phase modulator relative to the other polarization wavefunction component for photons Q1 and Q2 in path . The polarization components of photons in path interact with a quarter wave plate two times rotating polarization by 90 degrees. Phase polarization wavefunction components in path are then reflected from mirror back to polarization beam splitter where the wavefunction components in path are recombined with phase shifted polarization components in path that has passed through polarization modulator a quarter wave plate two times rotating the polarization by 90 degrees and returning to polarization beam splitter through reflection off of translating mirror . The combined state is transmitted through a half wave plate oriented so as to perform a quantum Hadamard transform to yield recombined transformed output . Note that the half wave plate may optionally be positioned following the Unitary Transformation circuitry as shown by dotted lines . The recombined transformed output is such that one of the photon components e.g. Q2 thereof is reflected by dichroic mirror to single photon counting module while the other photon component e.g. Q1 is directed to Bell measurement element . Continuing to the left side of entangled photon source provides entangled photons P1 and P2. In the drawing for explanatory purposes the second entangled photon P2 is repeated as an input into the Bell state measurement element represented by the square with a diagonal line . Within the Bell state measurement element entangled photon P2 and the informational qubit Q1 which passes through the interferometer and which passes via the path interact via quantum interference. Note that as discussed above the informational photon may have passed though the half wave plate which implements a quantum Hadamard gate transformation thereon. In the Bell state measurement element the measurement takes place between the entangled photon P2 and the informational photon. This interaction is depicted in which depicts photon P2 and qubit Q1 undergoing a joint Bell state measurement. The determination of the Bell measurement a joint quantum mechanical measurement of two qubits determines which of the four Bell states the two qubit system Q1 and P2 exists. This is recorded by the photodetectors and the results are referred to herein as the two bit measurement. 

It is noted again that in the general context of the entangled photons P1 and P2 being separated with photon P1 being at the receiving side and the photon P2 being at the sender information contained in the qubit Q1 may be transmitted from the sender to the receiver with only the two bit measurement recorded by detectors being physically transmitted.

As explained in the foregoing regarding the unitary transformation operation when the sender wishes to send a qubit quantum teleportation the sender will perform a Bell measurement with sender s half of the shared entangled quantum system and the qubit to be transferred to the receiver at elements . The outcome of the Bell measurement will be sent to the receiver over classical channels and consists of two bits. When the receiver gets the two bits transferred via computer to the unitary transformation element the receiver applies to their remaining portion of the initially shared entangled state one of four unitary operations depending upon what the two bits indicate. Typically these operations can be represented by a matrix and correspond to the Identity matrix and three other matrices. For example 

Continuing in the left side of single photon counting modules and count individual photons with a given polarization and report a counting event to coincidence electronics . Only when coincidence is noted between a photon counting event at module and or between module and module is the count considered a valid probability density function measurement.

Referring now to a Type I nonlinear optical crystal analog system is depicted which in general is similar to the system of for example interferometers are present in both systems and and where like numerals used with reference to correspond to the description of those previously described with respect to the proceeding figures. In a Type I nonlinear crystal generates entangled photon pairs with the same known polarization from photons passing in path . Preferably the crystal is tuned for non degenerative down conversion with regard to dichroic mirror . The known polarization beam of entangled photons in path is incident on polarization beam splitter that operates to transmit one polarization component and reflect other polarization components and that component with a known photon polarization state in path is directed to a polarization modulator . As in all of the embodiments in the polarization modulator and phase modulator are controlled by computer which determines which half of the data to process as explained with reference to based upon the last measurement fed back from coincident detector which is connected to the computer by lines and . The component with a known photon state is directed through a polarization modulator and phase modulator to yield an arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state in path that is reflected off mirror and into an interferometer shown generally at that has the geometry of a polarization Sagnac interferometer. The arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state in path retains characteristics of the data set signal to be subsequently transformed in any previously measured photon state if such is known. The interferometer comprises like elements referenced by the same numerals as the interferometer of and receives the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state in path incident on a polarization beam splitter that splits the arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state in path to phase shift a polarization component in path through interaction with a phase modulator . Phase Modulator is also connected to computer by lines and . The computer controls the phase modulator depending upon the stage of the Fourier transform.

In connection with the embodiments depicted in and optionally a second computer may be used to control phase modulator if the phase modulator is at a remote location. The second component of the entangled photon pair Q1 Q2 in path is recombined with the phase shifted component of the entangled photon pair Q1 Q2 through coincidental reflection with the mirrors collectively labeled . The combined state is transmitted through a half wave plate oriented so as to perform a quantum Hadamard transform to yield recombined transformed output . Note that the half wave plate may optionally be positioned following the Unitary Transformation circuitry as shown by dotted lines . The recombined transformed output is such that one of the photon components thereof is reflected by dichroic mirror to single photon counting module while the other photon component is processed as follows.

Continuing to the left side of entangled photon source provides entangled photons P1 and P2. In the drawing for explanatory purposes the second entangled photon P2 is repeated as an input into the Bell state measurement element represented by the square with a diagonal line . Within the Bell state measurement element entangled photon P2 and the informational qubit Q1 which passes through the interferometer and which passes via the path interact via quantum interference. Note that as discussed above the informational photon may have passed though the half wave plate which implements a quantum Hadamard gate transformation thereon. In the Bell state measurement element the measurement takes place between the entangled photon P2 and the informational photon. This interaction is depicted in which depicts photon P2 and qubit Q1 undergoing a joint Bell state measurement. The determination of the Bell measurement a joint quantum mechanical measurement of two qubits determines which of the four Bell states the two qubit system Q1 and P2 exists. This is recorded by the photodetectors and the results are referred to herein as the two bit measurement. 

It is noted again that in the general context of the entangled photons P1 and P2 being separated with photon P1 being at the receiving side and the photon P2 being at the sender information contained in the qubit Q1 may be transmitted from the sender to the receiver with only the two bit measurement recorded by detectors being physically transmitted. The half wave plate provides a qubit prioritized input to a polarization beam splitter and yields a single photon registered on one of the single photon counting modules or . Note that the half wave plate may optionally be positioned following the Unitary Transformation circuitry as shown by dotted lines .

As explained in the foregoing regarding the unitary transformation operation when the sender wishes to send a qubit quantum teleportation the sender will perform a Bell measurement with sender s half of the shared entangled quantum system and the qubit to be transferred to the receiver at elements . The outcome of the Bell measurement will be sent to the receiver over classical channels and consists of two bits. When the receiver gets the two bits transferred via computer to the unitary transformation element the receiver applies to their remaining portion of the initially shared entangled state one of four unitary operations depending upon what the two bits indicate. Typically these operations can be represented by a matrix and correspond to the Identity matrix and three other matrices. For example 

Continuing in the left side of single photon counting modules and count individual photons with a given polarization and report a counting event to coincidence electronics . Only when coincidence is noted between a photon counting event at module and or between module and module is the count considered a valid probability density function measurement.

The coincidence electronics feed the result back to the computer via lines and so that the computer determines which portion of the data to process next and how to prepare the data bases on the last measurement detected by the coincident electronics. The feature is depicted in where dotted lines are used to show data paths which are no longer in use and the BINS labeled R are no longer used while the BINS labeled L remain to be processed. By making a determination not to use the 4 BINS labeled R as depicted in data compression is achieved.

It is noted the foregoing depicts the functions of respective elements that are controlled or implemented by a computer. Such operations may be performed for example by or in conjunction with the computer labeled as Computer in which depicts a classic computer and the capabilities of computer or associated computers may include the loading with an input signal. The computer or associated computers then performs a quantum Fourier transform and either a classical inverse Fourier transform or a quantum inverse Fourier transform. The output of system or associated computers may be provided to a buffer store not shown . From the buffer store it may be provided to an output device on either a real time or delayed basis as still images video images movies audio sound representations and the like. Computer or processor may be loaded with the input signal that determines the wave function amplitudes that satisfy Equation 15 controls modulators and and controls the phase shift elements e.g. in . Processor is also operatively connected to coincidence electronics . The coincidence electronics serve to determine when a valid Bell State measurement has occurred by a coincidence between a detection event at for example detector in and the Bell State measurement indicated by detectors and . Processor would then classically communicate e.g. via the Internet etc two bits that represent the outcome of the Bell State measurement to processor optionally with a time stamp provided by indicating when the coincidence took place. Computer may be operationally connected to Unitary transformer coincidence electronics and one half of an entangled pair of photons P1 and detectors and . On receiving two bits from Processor computer then sets the Unitary transformer to the appropriate matrix values as described above to transform photon P1 into the quantum photon state at path to complete the quantum teleportation of information operation. Computer records the result of the measurement at and communicates to Processor that result so that the next qubit can be teleported along the correct branch of the quantum binary tree . Computer can then perform either a classical inverse Fourier transform or a quantum inverse Fourier transform to recover the signal communicated by processor . The output of system may be provided to a buffer store not shown . From the buffer store it may be provided to an output device on either a real time or delayed basis as still images video images movies audio sound representations and the like.

In order to evaluate the ability of the inventive quantum algorithm to compress and transmit a signal representative of the data set with a comparatively small number of photons sound samples defining a normalized arbitrary spectrum are provided in the top left panel of . The histogram defines a quantized spectrum while the solid lines superimposed thereover represent classical Fourier gray line transform and QFT black line fits to the data. The 32 sound sample elements of the top left spectrum are amenable to storage and operation on 2or 4 qubits. The top right panel of represents a single statistical evaluation of the arbitrary spectrum depicted in the top left panel. The line superimpositions on the histogram in the top right represents a classical and quantum magnitude superposition. The lower left panel is duplicative of the conventional four photon single evaluation of the arbitrary spectrum upper left panel and represents the input signal into the processor depicted in . The lower right panel depicts the reconstructed arbitrary spectrum upper left panel based on quantum Fourier transform as described herein followed by an inverse Fourier transform. The solid overlapping lines represent reconstructed probability and classical magnitudes.

An example of a Bell state measurement device is shown to the right in wherein the Bell state measurement element or device comprises a beam splitter and includes four number resolving detectors. A photon number resolving detector is able to tell whether it measured one photon or two within its measurement. Birefringent elements on each outlet side of the beam splitter delay polarization components with respect to the other of the same photon wavefunction. As shown to the right in after the birefringent elements two polarizing beam splitters are aligned to 45 degrees that measure the four Bell states. Note that there are two birefringent elements are at each arm and two detectors at each arm going through 45 degree coincidence for example as to the Bell state double clicking for . Note that the qubit and the second entangled photon are interfering in Bell state measurement element and that the Bell state measurement is a joint measurement corresponding to the photons interaction. Each photon has a polarization and phase their wavefunctions are going to exit the beam splitter in certain superpositions. The result is the measurement of the components of the wavefunctions that interacted at . Q1 will interact with P2 and because of the interaction and entanglement between P2 and P1 information on Q1 is transferred to P1. Thus information is transferred from the sender to the receiver when the entanglement between P2 and Q1 is transferred to P1 via the unitary transformation element due to the prior entanglement between P1 and P2. At this junction the information contained in Q1 is outputted from the unitary transfer device as Q1 . A classical communication channel is present which provides the Bell state measurements received by detectors at the beams splitter where P2 interferes with Q1.

Referring again to the arrow double lines represent the travel paths of the photon wavefunctions prior to measurement at a detector. The dash dot dot dash line indicates a classical communication channel that extends between the sender and the receiver where two bits of information representing the outcome of the Bell State measurement conducted in element are transmitted to the receiver. In Bell state measurement element a joint measurement is performed between one part of an entangled pair represented as P2 in and the photon to be communicated represented as Q1 . The two bits in channel tell the receiver and in particular element how to measure the remaining entangled photon. The element in B represents a device that performs a unitary transformation specified by the two bits of classically transmitted information from the sender resulting from the outcome of detectors on the remaining portion of the initial entangled photon pair. In element a unitary transformation operation is performed to complete communication. These unitary transformations are often represented by a Pauli matrix. The solid arrowed line indicates the travel path of the transferred qubit represented by the double lined crossed circle towards a detector as explained above in conjunction with through . In B the representation Q1 refers to the transferred photon information state and can be many bits per photon transferred. Elements and operationally connected to Computer serve to complete the measurement of the transferred information. The results of the measurement would be transmitted to Processor not shown to be used to prepare the next qubit Q1 of information to teleported to .

As is the case of the following occurs the Bell state measurement device or element may be for example a beam splitter and includes four number resolving detectors. A photon number resolving detector is able to tell whether it measured one photon or two within its measurement. Birefringent elements on each outlet side of the beam splitter delay polarization components with respect to the other of the same photon wavefunction. As shown to the right in after the birefringent elements two polarizing beam splitters are aligned to 45 degrees that measure the four Bell states. Note that there are two birefringent elements are at each arm and two detectors at each arm going through 45 degree coincidence for example as to the Bell state double clicking for . Note that the qubit and the second entangled photon are interfering in Bell state measurement element or device and that the Bell state measurement is a joint measurement corresponding to the interaction of the photons. Each photon has a polarization and phase their wavefunctions are going to exit the beam splitter in certain superpositions. The result is the measurement of the components of the wavefunctions that interacted at . Q1 will interact with P2 and because of the interaction and entanglement between P2 and P1 information on Q1 is transferred to P1.

Referring now to the classical channel no longer extends between the sender and receiver. Instead the photons split by Bell State measurement element e.g. beam splitter are transmitted to the sender and measured by the detectors A and B on the receiver side. The double lines represent the travel paths of the photon wave functions prior to measurement at detector A and A. The determination of the Bell measurement a joint quantum mechanical measurement of two qubits that determines which of the four Bell states the two qubits are in is recorded by the photodetectors A B also referred to as the two bit measurement. In the context of the for example entangled photons being separated with photon P1 being at the receiving side and the photon P2 being at the sender information contained in the qubit Q1 may be transmitted from the sender to the receiver with only the two bit measurement being physically transmitted by classical channels. However in the classical channel is eliminated. The measurement results from the Bell state measurement at A and B is transferred to computer along path . Computer then specifies the setting of unitary transformation element in accordance with the value of the second Bell state measurement.

The unitary transfer element in is described fully with respect to and the description is hereby incorporated by reference As in the representation Q1 refers to the transferred photon information state and can be many bits per photon transferred. Elements and operationally connected to Computer serve to complete the measurement of the transferred information. The results of the measurement would be transmitted to Processor to be used to prepare the next qubit Q1 of information to teleported to .

Referring now to the classical channel no longer extends between the sender and receiver. Instead the channel extends to computer via encoder which provides the outcome of the Bell state measurement to processor . Unlike the classical communication channel between the sender and receiver is replaced by inter alia the sending of entangled photons through space or fiber optics as represent by lines containing P3 and P4 passing from the sender to the receiver. Prior to transmission to the receiver P3 and P4 are modulated. Processor then sets phase and polarization modulators and to set the Bell state of entangled photons P3 P4 to the measured Bell state of Q1 and P2 wherein the outcomes of the detected states measured by and are used to control polarization modulator and phrase modulator . In addition unlike a second entangled photon source A operates to generate photons P3 and P4. P3 and P4 are related to photons P1 and P2 as the photons are either time stamped or synchronized. Photon P3 is passed through a polarization modulator and a phase modulator . Exemplary polarization phase modulators illustratively include liquid crystals Kerr cells and Pockel cells. Preferably a series of two liquid crystal devices and a quarter wave plate may be used to achieve arbitrary polarization. Upon the entangled photon P3 interacting with the polarization and phase modulators and respectively the entangled photon P4 is transformed into an arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state based on data set signal being transformed and any previously measured photon state if any is known.

The modulated entangled photon pair P3 P4 is then transmitted to the receiver for measurement on a second Bell state measurement element . Detectors and record the Bell state measurement. The measurement from the second Bell state measurement is transferred to computer along path . Computer then specifies the setting of unitary transformation element in accordance with the value of the second Bell state measurement. Unitary transformation element in represents a device that performs a unitary transformation specified by the computer based on the modulated Bell state transmitted from the sender resulting from the outcome of detectors on the remaining portion of the initial entangled photon pair. The Unitary transformation operation is performed identical to that of above and the description is incorporated by reference herein. The representation Q1 refers to the transferred photon information state and can be many bits per photon transferred. Elements and operationally connected to Computer serve to complete the measurement of the transferred information. The results of the measurement are transmitted to Processor to be used to prepare the next qubit Q1 of information to teleported to .

The arrowed double lines indicate the travel paths for the combined pump photons and qubit photons. Polarizing beam splitter transmits and reflects the orthogonal polarization components of the wavefunction of the qubit photon and pump photons. Polarizing Beamsplitter PBS and always transmit one of the orthogonal components and reflects the other. Polarization controller operates to rotate pump polarization and single photon wavefunction polarization by 90 degrees. The nonlinear media boxes and are the locations where the quantum frequency conversion takes place employing either sum frequency generation or difference frequency generation. An optical delay line operates to ensure wavefunction overlap at the polarizing beamsplitter PBS 2 . The Box labeled beam stop is a device to capture excess pump photons and noise photons produced in the SFG or DFG device. The arrowed dashed line indicates the travel path of the frequency wavelength converted qubit. This converted qubit Q1 may then be coupled into transmission optics or into optical devices for manipulation or detection. The net result of the system operation is to in essence create a quantum information waveguide for the single photon produced at generator the orthogonal components of which are split by beam splitter frequency converted by nonlinear media recombined at beamsplitter and filtered at elements .

Referring to the details of a schematic depiction of an alternate preferred embodiment system A utilizing a Mach Zehnder configuration wherein a single qubit of quantum information encoded into a photon is frequency wavelength converted prior to transmission detection or manipulation to a more favorable frequency wavelength. Beginning with a laser pump source with wavelength the laser beam is pumped into a polarization controller that sets the pump polarization at 45 degrees. Next a wave division multiplexer or dichroic mirror transmits the generation of a single photon from single photon generator . Wave division multiplexer or dichroic mirror Wave division multiplexer or dichroic mirror that transmits and reflects Wave division multiplexer or dichroic mirror that transmits and reflects or all other . Arrowed dotted lines indicate the travel path for the photon carrying the encoded quantum information. Arrowed solid lines indicate the path for the high flux laser pump photons. The wave division multiplexers WDM and represent optical devices to combine or separate the wavelengths frequencies of the pump photons with the quantum information photons onto a common or different optical path. For example the wave division multiplexer or dichroic mirror transmits and reflects or all other .

The arrowed double lines indicate the travel paths for the combined pump photons and qubit photons. Next polarizing beam splitter transmits and reflects the orthogonal polarization components of the wavefunction of the qubit photon and pump photons. Polarizing Beamsplitter PBS and always transmit one of the orthogonal components and reflects the other. Polarization controller operates to rotate pump polarization and single photon wavefunction polarization by 90 degrees. The nonlinear media boxes NL and NC are the locations where the quantum frequency conversion takes place employing either sum frequency generation or difference frequency generation. Specifically at NL the nonlinear media is oriented 90 degrees from nonlinear nonlinear media NC. An optical delay line operates to ensure wavefunction overlap at the polarizing beamsplitter PBS 2 . The beam stop is a device to capture excess pump photons and noise photons produced in the SFG or DFG device. Wave division multiplexer or dichroic mirror transmits and reflects all other . The arrowed dashed line indicates the travel path of the frequency wavelength converted qubit Q1. This converted qubit Q1 may then be coupled into transmission optics or into optical devices for manipulation or detection. The net result of the system A operation is to in essence create a quantum information waveguide for the single photon produced at the orthogonal components of which are split by beam splitter frequency converted by nonlinear media NL NC recombined at beamsplitter and filtered at elements .

Referring to the details of a schematic depiction of an embodiment B utilizing a Sagnac configuration wherein a single qubit of quantum information encoded into a photon is frequency wavelength converted prior to transmission detection or manipulation to a more favorable frequency wavelength. An advantage of the Sagnac configuration is that the wavefunctions of all the photons travel through the same optical devices in both polarizations which help to mitigate polarization dependent birefringence effects between the orthogonal polarization components. Beginning with a laser pump source with wavelength the laser beam is pumped into a polarization controller that sets the pump polarization at 45 degrees. Next a wave division multiplexer or dichroic mirror transmits the generation of a single photon from single photon generator . The wave division multiplexer or dichroic mirror Wave division multiplexer or dichroic mirror that transmits and reflects or all other . Arrowed dotted lines indicate the travel path for the photon carrying the encoded quantum information. Arrowed solid lines indicate the path for the high flux laser pump photons. The wave division multiplexers WDM and represent optical devices to combine or separate the wavelengths frequencies of the pump photons with the quantum information photons onto a common or different optical path. For example the wave division multiplexer or dichroic mirror transmits and reflects or all other .

The arrowed double lines indicate the travel paths for the combined pump photons and qubit photons. Next polarizing beam splitter transmits and reflects the orthogonal polarization components of the wavefunction of the qubit photon and pump photons. Polarizing Beamsplitter PBS always transmits one of the orthogonal components and reflects the other. The nonlinear media boxes NL and NC are the locations where the quantum frequency conversion takes place employing either sum frequency generation or difference frequency generation. Specifically at NL the nonlinear media is oriented parallel to the nonlinear media NC. An optical delay line operates to ensure recombining wavefunction overlap at the polarizing beamsplitter . Halfwave plates HWP A and B operate to rotate polarization by pump polarization and single photon wavefunction polarization by 90 degrees to ensure proper phase matching for interaction and non interaction with the nonlinear media NL and NC for both clock wise and counter clock wise propagating photons. The beam stop is a device to capture excess pump photons and noise photons produced in the SFG or DFG device. Wave division multiplexer or dichroic mirror transmits and reflects all other . The arrowed dashed line indicates the travel path of the frequency wavelength converted qubit Q1. This converted qubit Q1 may then be coupled into transmission optics or into optical devices for manipulation or detection. The net result of the system B operation is to in essence create a quantum information waveguide for the single photon produced at the orthogonal components of which are split by beam splitter frequency converted by nonlinear media NL NC recombined at beamsplitter and filtered at elements .

The system of includes an interferometer shown generally at that has the geometry of a polarization Sagnac interferometer. The arbitrarily oriented elliptical polarization state in path is split at polarization beam splitter to phase shift a polarization component through interaction with a phase modulator . A second component is recombined with the phase shifted component through coincidental reflection with three mirrors labeled . The recombined state is reflected by mirror onto a half wave plate to implement a quantum Hadamard gate transformation.

The qubit Q1 travels along path to Quantum Frequency Converter A see A B of which is implemented to convert the frequency of the qubit Q1 to a frequency suitable for propagation to the receiver along path A. That is the frequency is changed as shown in . The frequency is converted by frequency converter A using of devices A or B which are described in . When the qubit Q1 interacts with for example B of the photon Q1 with frequency will combine with a laser with an appropriate frequency for the desired wavelength conversion inside of wave division multiplexer shown in . The laser pump provides a high intensity source of photons at frequency . This high intensity laser illumination then interact with the optical element which sets the polarization of the high intensity photons to 45 degrees. The combined Q1 and high intensity photons then interact with polarizing beam splitter . Beam splitter is operative to split the polarization wavefunction components of Q1 into clock wise CW and counter clock wise CCW propagating paths each path with a unique polarization the high intensity pump beam is also split into the clock wise and counter clock wise paths each path having equal intensity of pump beam light. For the Q1 components and pump beam traveling the clock wise propagation path first interact with a half wave plate A which operates to rotate the polarization of the photons to the correct phase matching condition for non linear media NL. The non linear media NL operates to convert the frequency of the wavefunction components of Q1 traveling the clock wise propagation path. After exiting NL the clock wise propagating wavefunction components of Q1 and pump beam interact with half waveplate B which operates to rotate the polarization of the clock wise propagating wavefunction components of Q1 and the clock wise propagating pump beam to a phase matching condition for non interaction with nonlinear media NC. Note that frequency conversion requires that the correct phase matching conditions be met for the nonlinear media. The clock wise path propagating components may optionally interact with delay line to ensure wavefunction overlap on polarizing beam splitter to recombine the clock wise and counter clock wise propagating components. The Q1 components and pump beam traveling the counter clockwise path first interact with the optional delay line to ensure wavefunction overlap on polarizing beam splitter to recombine the clock wise path and counter clock wise path propagating components. For the Q1 components and pump beam traveling the counter clock wise path then interact with nonlinear media NC. The nonlinear media NC operates to convert the frequency of the wavefunction components of Q1 traveling the counter clock wise propagation path. The frequency converted components of Q1 and pump beam then interact with half wave plate B which operates to rotate the polarization of light on the counter clock wise path to a non interacting phase matching condition with nonlinear media NL. After passing through NL the counter clockwise path wavefunction components and pump beam then interact with half wave plate A to rotate the counter clockwise path propagating polarizations to enable wavefunction recombination on beam splitter . The recombined frequency converted Q1 and pump beam then interact with wave division multiplier which operates to transmit the frequency of the converted Q1 and reflect all other frequencies to beam stop . After propagating to the receiver the qubit Q1 interacts with Quantum Frequency Converter B which operates to convert the frequency of the qubit Q1 from the propagation frequency such as 1550 nm in optical fiber to a frequency more suitable for operation such as measurement by detectors and e.g. 700 nm for some silicon avalanche photodiode detectors. It is to be appreciated that the interactions of the frequency converted Q1 from path with the components of 402 are substantially equivalent to those recited above with optionally a different pump laser frequency and phase matching criteria for the non linear media NL and NC.

Following the frequency conversions of elements and returning now to in the left side of single photon counting modules and count individual photons with a given polarization and report a counting event to coincidence electronics . Only when coincidence is noted between a photon counting event at module and or between module and module is the count considered a valid probability density function measurement. The result of the coincidence measurements by and or and are transmitted over classical channels to processor for the preparation and transmission of the next qubit.

The outcomes of the successive steps sum to the values 0 through 4 1 where n is the number of Bell state qubits. The means of obtaining the 0 1 2 or 3 depends on the specific experimental and corresponding simulation implementation. There are several conventional rules that are possible for determining the 0 1 2 or 3 value. For example a 0 state may correspond to a Bell state measurement of the 1 may correspond to a measurement of the 2 to a measurement of and the 3 to a measurement of or other alternative assignments may be true. In general the series of Bell state measurements are prepared such that each value of the state preparation is conditioned to determine the 0 1 2 or 3 at each branch.

In the simulation depicted in Quantum Quad Tree n Bell state measurements are made. The n value is determinative of the first branch. The 4lower branches where n is the number of Bell states are divided into four parts . The side with the greatest sum of the indices measured determines the path of the first branch. The second level branch has one fourth the number of indices of the first branch. Consecutive indices assigned are from the selected half from the first branch. The same process is used for the second branch level as from the first branch but with half of the indices. This process repeats until all the branching is determined and the selected single index is determined. The quantum quad tree depicted in prior art for two Bell state measurements provides an index space of sixteen. The quantum quad tree is expandable to n Bell states which is equivalent to an index space of 4.

Photons P1 pass through paths and to beam splitter . Photons P3 enter beam splitter as shown in . Photonic element which may be a beam splitter splits the inputted photons into two paths which terminate by elements which may be either absorbers or detectors. When absorbers are utilized for elements no connection circuitry to processor computer will exist inasmuch as only in the case of detectors will electrical signals be generated and sent to the computer . When entangled photons P1 and P3 are measured and or absorbed by detectors or absorbers the Bell state is transferred to the remaining photon pair entangled photons P2 and P4 and entangling them by the process of entanglement swapping. When P2 and P4 are entangled and measured by a correlated value will be measured. The entanglement will be one of 4 Bell states and the Bell state measured on right sender s subassembly will be same as Bell state measured on left receiver s subassembly . The measured Bell states at both the sender and receiver may further be used to negotiate a shared quantum key.

Delay element operates to ensure coincidence in the interaction on beam splitter between photons P1 and P3 and delay element operates to ensure coinciding interaction on beam splitter between photons P2 and P4. The delay element is controlled by computer through line The receiver performs a Bell state measurement at and the results of that measurement are recorded by processor computer . Computer may have a coincidence detector associated therewith. Optionally a communications channel may interconnect computers and as represented by the parallel dashed lines.

Optionally computer processor controls an optional shutter device that is operational to prevent photons P1 from interacting with element and prevent a swap of entanglement from photons P1 P3 to photons P2 P4. Alternatively device may be controlled by an operator to prevent photons P1 from interacting with element and prevent a swap of entanglement from photons P1 P3 to photons P2 P4. In a second alternative computer processor may control entangled photon source or A to emit or not emit entangled photon pairs to enable or disable swapping of entanglement from photons P1 P3 to photons P2 P4. The sender operates to perform a Bell measurement between photons P1 and P3 or to block photon P . When a Bell measurement is performed with photons P2 and P4 their quantum states will either possess a non zero valued correlation or a zero valued correlation. A zero correlation value may be referred to as uncorrelated. The transfer of information may utilize encoding methods such as Morse code or ASCII. When the shutter is open P2 and P4 will strike Bell measurement device polarization beam splitter and a correlated measurement will be recorded. From the aspect of detectors and when the photons P2 and P4 are correlated both photons will be detected by either of detectors or . If the shutter is closed so as to block P1 then P2 will still enter Bell state measurement element but no correlation will occur i.e. the photons P2 and P4 will not have a preponderance of measurements in which the one of the detectors or measures both photons P2 and P4. The transfer of information for preferred embodiment may include encodings such as Morse code or ASCII. The information being transferred may be for example binary representations of Bell state measurements images sound or other types of quantum digital and or analog data to be communicated.

An example of a Bell state measurement device or element is shown to the right in wherein the Bell state measurement element comprises a beam splitter and includes four number resolving detectors. A photon number resolving detector is able to tell whether it measured one photon or two within its measurement. Birefringent elements on each outlet side of the beam splitter delay polarization components with respect to the other of the same photon wavefunction. As shown to the right in after the birefringent elements two polarizing beam splitters are aligned to 45 degrees that measure the four Bell states. Note that there are two birefringent elements are at each arm and two detectors at each arm going through 45 degree coincidence for example as to the Bell state double clicking for n . Note that the qubit and P5 are interfering in Bell state device A and that the Bell state measurement is a joint measurement corresponding to the interaction of the photons interaction. Each photon has a polarization and phase their wavefunctions are going to exit the beam splitter in certain superpositions. The result is the measurement of the components of the wavefunctions that interacted at . Q1 will interact with P2 and because of the interaction and entanglement between P2 and P1 some information on Q1 is transferred to P1.

The embodiment shown in uses a third source of entangled photons C which generally replaces the optional communications channel between the sender computer and receiver computer . Due to the entanglement between P5 and P6 photons P5 and P6 essentially provide a quantum channel information link between the sender and receiver subassemblies to get the information to the receiver and to obviate the need for a communications channel shown in . All photons emitted from sources A B and C are synchronized or time stamped. Photons coming out of entangled photon sources A B and C are at the same or corresponding wavelengths. The photons from A B C are operated at the same clock. So long as the wavelength does not provide distinguishable information on the entangled property photons of differing wavelengths may be utilized. Although the photons work in the same clock delay lines are used to compensate for the path lengths needed to travel to the various components. With respect to the travel of photon P6 to the receiver a global clock may be utilized in conjunction with a GPS system so that the travel distance and arrival time can be computed.

In the embodiment of the results of the Bell state measurement element A A A of the information photon Q1 with one of an entangled pair of photons P5 are transferred to the photons P2 and P4 due to the properties of entanglement. As an option the embodiment may use shutter to transfer the value of the Bell state measurement value from detectors A B via computer using an encoding such as Morse code or ASCII. In the case of Morse code a series of dashes and dots are transmitted correlated to a code of letters. In the case of ASCII a sequence of 8 bits corresponds to a letter or number. The dots or dashes would correspond to a binary zero or one. The receiver uses the two bits that are representative of the Bell state measured from the interaction of Q1 and P5 at detectors A and A to set the unitary transformation device via the entanglement between photons P5 and P6 for photon P6 to reconstruct the state of photon Q1 to be measured by detectors A and A. Note that photons P1 P6 individually contain no information content were these photons to be intercepted and measured.

As an example consider a case where three entangled photon sources are located at the sender. The sender is going to teleport a sequence of information photons qubits to the receiver using only quantum information channels and Bell state encoding for the two bit information transfer to the receiver. The sender will prepare the information photon Q1 in the desired state and interact that photon with an entangled photon P5 from entangled photon source C on beam splitter A the remaining photon P6 from that entangled pair is directed towards the receiver and element . A Bell state measurement will be performed between photons P5 and Q1 and the results of that measurement directed to encoder . Specifically Photons P1 pass through paths and to beam splitter . Photons P3 enter beam splitter as shown in . Photonic element which may be a beam splitter splits the inputted photons into two paths which terminate by elements which may be either absorbers or detectors. When absorbers are utilized for elements no connection circuitry to processor computer will exist inasmuch as only in the case of detectors will electrical signals be generated and sent to the computer . When entangled photons P1 and P3 are measured and or absorbed by detectors or absorbers the Bell state is transferred to the remaining photon pair entangled photons P2 and P4 and entangling them by the process of entanglement swapping.

The results of the measurement of P2 P4 by the receiver on beam splitter and detectors will be recorded by computer and used to set the unitary transformation circuitry to the unitary transformation prescribed by the encoded Bell state. Photon P6 then passes through element with the prescribed unitary transformation to recover the information contained in photon Q1. The values of that information photon Q1 are measured on detectors A and A after passing through polarizing beam splitter A. The results of the measurements from A and A are recorded by computer . The sender may then repeat the steps until a sequence of encoded data has been teleported to the receiver using only quantum channels for increased stealth and security.

The entanglement sources may be co located with either the sender or receiver or may be distant from both. Each entangled photon source provides an entangled photon pair. Entangled photon pairs from each entangled photon source must be synchronized or time stamped to ensure interactions between photons from entangled pairs generated by the different entangled sources.

Further as to the optional shutter device computer processor controls an shutter device that prevents photons P1 from interacting with element and prevent a swap of entanglement from photons P1 P3 to photons P2 P4. Alternatively device may be controlled by an operator to prevent photons P1 from interacting with element and prevent a swap of entanglement from photons P1 P3 to photons P2 P4. In a second alternative computer processor may control entangled photon source or A to emit or not emit entangled photon pairs to enable or disable swapping of entanglement from photons P1 P3 to photons P2 P4. The sender operates to perform a Bell measurement between photons P1 and P3 or to block photon P1. When a Bell measurement is performed with photons P2 and P4 they will either be correlated or uncorrelated depending on the position of shutter . When a Bell measurement is performed with photons P2 and P4 their quantum states will either possess a non zero valued correlation or a zero valued correlation. A zero correlation value may be referred to as uncorrelated. When the shutter is open P2 and P4 will interact with Bell measurement device and a correlated measurement will be recorded. From the aspect of detectors and when the photons P2 and P4 are correlated both photons will be detected by either of detectors or . If the shutter is closed so as to block P1 then P3 will still enter Bell state measurement device or element but no correlation will occur i.e. the photons P2 and P4 will not have a preponderance of measurements in which the one of the detectors or measures both photons P2 and P4. The transfer of information for preferred embodiment 501 may include encodings such as Morse code or ASCII.

 2 P5 and Q1 are reflected. Q1 travels to through Port B to photonic element which may be a beam splitter. P5 travels to B. When P1 and Q1 interact P2 becomes an inverse transformation of Q1. When P5 interacts with P3 entanglement is swapped to P4.

 3 P5 interacts with Q1 at Beam splitter . Q1 and P5 exit ports A and B respectively. Photon Q1 travels to Bell state measurement device or element B without P5. Photon P5 travels to Bell state measurement device or element B. Photon P5 entanglement is swapped via P3 to P4. Photon Q1 travels to Bell state measurement device or element and information from Photon Q is imparted to Photon P2 via entanglement of Photons P1 P2.

 4 Photon P5 is transmitted and Q1 is reflected. Photons P1 P5 and Q1 all interact on Bell state measurement device or element . No outcome is determinable.

Until the photons are measured each of these outcomes are equally likely. With respect to single photon interaction a beam splitter has the property that it is equally likely for the single photon to be measured at either output port of the beam splitter . The interfered Q1 P5 photon states e.g. polarization are directed towards Bell state measurement device or elements and B respectively. There are two ways to generate valid Bell state measurements at both Bell state measurement device or elements and B. These are the cases where both the information photon Q and photon P5 are transmitted through beam splitter outcome 2 or where both photons Q1 and P5 are reflected on interacting with beam splitter outcome 3 . In the case where the information photon is reflected though beam splitter a Bell state measurement between the information photon Q1 and entangled photon P1 will take place at components Bell state measurement device or element and absorbers or detectors and . This effectively teleports the information photon onto photon P2.

Specifically Photons P1 pass through delay to beam splitter . Photons P3 enter beam splitter as shown in . Photonic element which may be a beam splitter splits the inputted photons into two paths which terminate by elements which may be either absorbers or detectors. When absorbers are utilized for elements no connection circuitry to processor computer will exist inasmuch as only in the case of detectors will electrical signals be generated and sent to the computer . When entangled photons P1 and P3 are measured and or absorbed by detectors or absorbers the Bell state is transferred to the remaining photon pair entangled photons P2 and P4 and entangling them by the process of entanglement swapping.

Photon P5 for this instance will interact with photon P3 on beam splitter B. Specifically Photons P3 pass through element to the beam splitter B. Photons P3 enter beam splitter as shown in . Photonic element B which may be a beam splitter splits the inputted photons into two paths which terminate by elements B B which may be either absorbers or detectors. When absorbers are utilized for elements B B no connection circuitry to processor computer will exist inasmuch as only in the case of detectors will electrical signals be generated and sent to the computer . Entangled photons P5 Q1 and P3 are measured and or absorbed by detectors or absorbers B B.

This Bell state measurement will perform and entanglement swap and entangle photons P4 and P6. When a Bell measurement is performed between photons P2 and P4 the outcome of that measurement applied through the unitary operation on photon P6 will recover the state of the information photon Q1 as Q1 . In the case where the information photon Q1 is transmitted through beam splitter outcome 3 a Bell state measurement between Q1 and entangled photon P3 will take place at Bell state measurement device or photonic element B including elements B and B effectively teleporting the state of Q1 onto entangled photon P4. Photon P5 will interact with photon P1 on Bell state measurement device or element including detectors and generating a Bell measurement and performing an entanglement swap to entangle photons P2 and P6. When a Bell measurement is performed between photons P2 and P4 the outcome of that measurement applied through the unitary operation on photon P6 will recover the state of the information photon Q1 as Q1 .

It must also be noted that interaction on a beam splitter between two photons does not necessarily entangle photons. In the case of entanglement swapping each photon interacting on a beamsplitter and measured and or absorbed is generated as one photon of an entangled pair of photons. Similarly the interaction of information photon Q1 with for example entangled photon P5 on beam splitter does not entangle the photon Q1 with photon P6.

As in the embodiment illustrated in the entangled photons P2 and P4 are directed to interact on Bell state measurement device or element including detectors and for a Bell state measurement. The results of that measurement are recorded by processor computer . The receiver uses the two bits that are representative of the Bell state to set the unitary transformation device to modulate photon P6 to reconstruct the state of photon Q1 Q1 to be measured by detectors A and A. Note that in this embodiment no classical communications channel i.e. radio or the Internet is used to complete the quantum teleportation providing more stealth and security as no photon or other typical means of transferring information is passing from the sender to the receiver. Furthermore the photons P1 P6 individually contain no information content were these photons to be intercepted and measured. The value of the teleported formation photon Q1 is measured on detectors A and A after passing through polarizing Bell state measurement device or element A. The results of the measurements from detectors A and A are recorded by computer . The results of the measurement would be transmitted to processor computer to be used to prepare the next qubit Q1 of information to teleported to . The sender may then repeat the steps until a sequence of encoded data has been teleported to the receiver using only quantum channels for increased stealth and security.

The entangled photon sources A B and C may be co located with either the sender or receiver or may be distant from both. Each entangled photon source provides an entangled photon pair. Entangled photon pairs from each entangled photon source must be synchronized or time stamped to ensure interactions between photons from entangled pairs generated by the different entangled sources. Delay elements and are components that operate to ensure photon interaction on Bell state measurement devices or elements and respectively. Delay element is controlled by computer as computer is used to track delay. The information detected by detectors and is processed by computer .

Polarization analyzers A and B may be comprised of polarizers half wave plates and quarter wave plates that are operative to set photons P3 and P4 to specified polarizations for measurement by detectors and for quantum state tomography. Quantum state tomography provides an assessment of the multiple states of each photon such horizontal or vertical polarization and or circular polarizations . Delay line element operates to insure coincident photon measurements on detectors and . Computer computes a quantum state tomography that will be representative of the polarization value specified by polarizer .

The receiver performs a Bell state measurement at Bell state measurement device or element and the results of that measurement are recorded by processor computer and the results of measurement are provided to processor to prepare the next branch of the quantum quad tree for information transfer. Computers and processors and operate to control sending receiving recording and display of the information and operates to control sending and receiving of the information.

As an option computer processor controls an optional shutter that is operational to prevent photons P1 from interacting with Bell state measurement device or element and prevent a swap of entanglement from photons P1 P3 to photons P2 P4. The sender operates to perform a Bell measurement between photons P1 and P3 or to block photon P . When a Bell measurement is performed with photons P2 and P4 their quantum states will either possess a non zero valued correlation or a zero valued correlation depending upon whether the shutter is in an open for a non zero correlation or closed position for a zero correlation. A zero correlation value may be referred to as uncorrelated. Using the variable pulsing like effect of shutter the transfer of information may include encodings such as Morse code or ASCII.

As a further option for the embodiment of an optional controller is substituted for the shutter that regulates the passage of entangled photons P1 which prevents interaction with element and prevents a swap of entanglement from photons P1 P3 to photons P2 P4. Through the operation of controller the sender operates to perform a Bell measurement between photons P1 and P3 or to block photon P1. When a Bell measurement is performed with photons P2 and P4 their quantum states will either possess a non zero valued correlation when the shutter is open or a zero valued correlation when the shutter is closed. A zero correlation value may be referred to as uncorrelated. Using the variable pulsing like effect of controller the transfer of information may include encodings such as Morse code or ASCII.

At the receiver or second subassembly photon P2is the photon P2 entering the sender subassembly at time Tand photon P2is the photon P1 entering the sender subassembly at time T. Independent photons P2enter the beam splitter at times T T T. . . T separated by a T .

There is an equal probability that the photons will enter the short or long paths as shown in . Each long path is constructed such that the distance traveled by the photon entering the path requires a time T for the photon to reach the beam splitter on the first or sender side and on the second or receiver. Given that there is an equal probability that the next photon P1 arriving at beam splitters will take the short path the long and short paths are constructed such that photons P1and P1will interact at the Bell state measurement device or element at the same time. Similarly photons P2and P2will interact at the Bell state measurement device or element at the same time. In effect beam splitter splits the paths of the photon into entangled photons P1and P1 etc. In a similar manner beam splitter splits the paths of the photon P2and P2 etc.

Optionally shutters may be included as shown in the sender side of . Delay elements and which may be for example optical delay lines quantum memories slow light medium etc. are components that operate to ensure photon interaction on beam splitters and respectively. Note the lines from computer to delay elements . Delay elements are used to optimize the overlap on beam splitter between the long and short path photon wavefunctions. Computer can determine optimal overlap from coincidence measurements by detectors and . Similar control lines from to delay elements are also be included to optimize photon wavefunction overlap on beamsplitter as determined by the coincidence measurements between detectors and .

Beamsplitters and operate to direct photon components of photons P1 P1 P1 P1. . . P1 and P2 P2 P2 P2. . . . P2 along their respective paths as shown in . When entangled photons P1and P1are measured by detectors the entanglement is transferred to the remaining photon pair photons P2and P2 entangling them by the process of entanglement swapping. Similarly the photons P1and P1are measured by the Bell state measurement device or element in conjunction with detectors or absorbers the entanglement is transferred to the remaining photon pair photons P2and P2 entangling them by the process of entanglement swapping. The receiver performs a joint measurement at Bell state measurement device or element and the results of that measurement are recorded by processor computer . Computers and processors and operate to control sending receiving recording and display of the information and operate to control sending and receiving of the information.

Optionally computer processor controls at least one optional shutter that operates to prevent the photons P1 on the long short or both paths from interacting with element and prevent a swap of entanglement from photons P1and P1to P2and P2 The sender operates to perform a joint measurement between photons P1and P1or to block photon P1 paths. When a joint measurement is performed with photons P2and P2 they will either be correlated or uncorrelated. The transfer of information may include encodings such as Morse code or ASCII. The type of information that may be transferred also includes the outcomes of a Bell state measurement between one photon of an entangled photon pair and an information photon qubit as would be used for quantum teleportation. Thus this embodiment can be used to transfer the outcome of a Bell state measurement by a quantum channel. It is to be appreciated that the speed of information transfer from the sender subsystem to the receiver subsystem is limited by the speed of quantum information.

During the fourth step the sender processor directs controller A to direct a pulse sequence on memory QM3 or QM4 to perform a read operation on one or both memories in accordance with the encoding prescribed by encoder . The photons from memories QM3 and QM4 are directed towards Bell state measurement device or element . Specifically Photons P1 pass through shutter to beam splitter . Photons P3 enter beam splitter as shown in . Beam splitter splits the inputted photons into two paths which terminate by elements which may be either absorbers or detectors. When absorbers are utilized for elements no connection circuitry to processor computer will exist inasmuch as only in the case of detectors will electrical signals be generated and sent to the computer . The entangled photons P1 and P3 are measured and or absorbed by detectors or absorbers .

During the interaction with absorbers or detectors and one or both photons from memories QM3 and QM4 are measured and or absorbed on detectors and . The absorption or measurement entangling quantum memories QM1 and QM2 in the case where a photon was emitted by memories QM3 and QM4 or not entangling quantum memories QM and QM2 if the photon emission was suppressed.

During the fifth step the receiver computer directs controller B to direct a pulse sequence on quantum memories to perform a read operation on quantum memories QM1 and QM2. Photons from the read operations being directed towards detectors and through optionally present Bell state measurement device or element .

During the sixth step the measurements of detectors and considered to be part of the Bell state measurement device or element are recorded by computer . In the instance where the entanglement was swapped between QM3 and QM4 the recorded measurements will be correlated in the instance where the entanglement swapping was suppressed the recorded measurements will be uncorrelated. Steps 1 to 6 are repeated until the sequence of encoded data has been transmitted.

Preferred embodiment may utilize either a common entangled photon source or in the alternative two entangled photon sources A and B. As a further option for preferred embodiment data transfer may be accomplished via quantum quad tree decomposition of a message or signal using computer to reconstruct a data set such as determining the next branch of a quantum tree as explained in the foregoing see for example . The entanglement sources or A and B may be co located with either the sender or receiver or may be distant from both. When utilizing two sources A and B each source provides an entangled photon pair represented by P1 P2 and P3 P4 in . The entangled pairs P1 P2 and P3 P4 must be synchronized or time stamped so that the interaction between P1 and P3 is correlated with the interaction between P2 and P4. Likewise in the case of a common photon source the entangled photons P1 and P2 and the entangled photons P3 and P4 are synchronized or time stamped. Thus both in the separated and common source embodiments the synchronicity or time stamping exists between the entangled photons in each pair as well as between the pairs of photons. Computers and processors and operate to control sending receiving recording and display of the information and operate to control sending and receiving of the information.

Alternate preferred embodiment further comprises two pairs of quantum memory elements A and B. Quantum memory element A comprises two quantum memories QM3 and QM4 and quantum memory element B comprises the two quantum memories QM1 and QM2. The quantum memories operate to store quantum information or the quantum state of photons interacting with the quantum memory for later use and or operations. Entangled photon P1 is directed towards a Bell state measurement device or element C where P1 will interact with a photon from quantum memory QM4. Quantum memory QM4 is controlled by controller A to emit a photon when directed by processor . The photon from quantum memory QM4 is directed through optional delay element to Bell state measurement device or element C to interact with photon P1. Delay elements which may be for example optical delay lines quantum memories slow light medium etc. are components that operate to ensure timely photon interaction on Bell state measurement device or element A B C and D. After interaction on Bell state measurement device or element C the entangled photon P1 and the photon from quantum memory QM4 are measured by measurement devices photon detectors considered to be part of the Bell state measurement device or element .

Either the optional common entangled photon source or the entangled photon source A will emit an entangled photon P2 towards Bell state measurement device or element B where entangled photon P2 will interfere with a photon from quantum memory QM2. Quantum memory QM2 is controlled by controller B to emit a photon when directed by computer processor . The photon from quantum memory QM2 may be directed through optional delay element to Bell state measurement device or element B to interact with entangled photon P2. After interaction on Bell state measurement device or element B the entangled photon P2 and the photon from quantum memory QM2 are measured by photon detectors measurement devices considered to be part of the Bell state measurement device or element . Subsequent to the measurements of the entangled photon P1 with the photon from QM4 and entangled photon P2 with the photon from QM2 the entanglement of P1 P2 will be transferred to quantum memories QM2 and QM4 due to the properties of entanglement.

Either the optional common entangled photon source or the entangled photon source B will emit an entangled photon P3 towards a Bell state measurement device or element D where P3 will interact with a photon from quantum memory QM3 after passage through an optional delay element . Quantum memory QM3 being directed by controller A to emit a photon when instructed by processor . After interaction between the photon P3 and the photon from quantum memory QM3 on Bell state measurement device or element D the entangled photon P3 and the photon from QM3 are measured by measurement devices photon detectors considered to be part of the Bell state measurement device or element .

Referring again to either the optional common entangled photon source or the entangled photon source B will emit an entangled photon P4 toward Bell state measurement device or element A where P4 will interact with a photon from quantum memory QM1. Quantum memory QM1 is controlled by controller B to emit a photon when directed by computer . The photon from QM1 is directed through optional delay element to Bell state measurement device or element A to interact with photon P4. After interaction on Bell state measurement device or element A the entangled photon P4 and the photon from QM2 are measured by measurement devices photon detectors considered to be part of the Bell state measurement device or element. .

Subsequent to the interaction of the entangled photon P3 with the photon from QM3 and entangled photon P4 with the photon from QM1 the entanglement of P3 P4 will be transferred to quantum memories QM1 and QM3 due to the properties of quantum entanglement.

Quantum memory element A provides photons from quantum memory QM3 and quantum memory QM4. Positioned between the sender processor and the quantum memory element B is a controller A that controls the outputting of photons from the quantum memory element A in a similar manner to the shutter that optionally accompanies preferred embodiment i.e. controller A operates to prevent the passage of photons from quantum memory element A at predetermined times as controlled by processor . A photon from quantum memory QM3 passes through delay element towards beam splitter . Delay elements and which may be for example optical delay lines quantum memories slow light medium etc. are components that operate to ensure timely photon interaction on beam splitters and respectively. A joint measurement at beam splitter is performed with a photon from quantum memory QM4. When the photons from QM3 and QM4 are measured or absorbed by detectors the quantum state is transferred to the quantum memories QM1 QM2 and entangling them by the process of entanglement swapping. The receiver may perform a measurement at Bell state measurement device or element and the results of that measurement are recorded by processor computer . The sender may then repeat the steps until a sequence of encoded data has been transmitted.

Controller A also regulates the passage of photon from QM3 and or QM4 which prevents interaction with element and prevents a swap of entanglement from quantum memories QM3 QM4 to quantum memories QM1 QM2. Through the operation of controller A the sender operates to perform a joint measurement between photons from QM3 and QM4 or to block photon interaction on . When a measurement is performed with quantum memories QM1 and QM2 they will either be correlated or uncorrelated depending upon whether the shutter or A is in an open or closed position. Using the variable pulsing like effect of controller A the transfer of information may include encodings such as Morse code or ASCII.

An alternate embodiment comprises a system for quantum cloud computing in support of tactical intelligence operations and other operations. Utilizing more than one computer processor and computing resources to solve a problem nearly simultaneously is referred to as parallel processing. Even though the processors are relatively far apart they can be connected by communications systems networks and links to enable problem solving also know as distributed computing. The collection of the distributed computing resources is often called cloud computing. Resources may include but are not limited to quantum and classical computer nodes quantum and classical memory quantum and classical computer codes quantum and classical storage quantum and classical communications and the like.

D Wave and PiCloud have announced a joint venture to develop cloud computing software for remote access to one or more D Wave quantum computers at a center or centers. The D Wave PiCloud quantum computing cloud is for a central computing resource available remotely. The communications between the quantum computers and the remote devices in this instance are classical.

One problem is that it is not designed or built to be used in support of tactical operations intelligence or otherwise. Tactical communications resources are different from commercial enterprises which depend heavily on stationary infrastructure support. A tactical environment has a connectivity which needs to be ad hoc and continually changing to account for mobility. Bandwidth is often restricted because of the smaller throughput of fielded system vs. commercial infrastructure supported systems.

A new method for quantum cloud computing improves security and compression between the nodes by applying the methods and techniques of quantum security and compression of data in transmission described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 566 entitled Quantum Based Information Transmission System and Method filed Feb. 12 2010 by Ronald E. Meyers and Keith S. Deacon and issued Aug. 6 2013 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 503 885 885 patent ARL 04 62CIP1 herein incorporated by reference to provide the communications links between quantum computing or classical computing nodes operating in a tactical environment. As described in the 885 patent the information sent to each location at each step in the process depends of the information previously measured by one or more receivers in the preceding step or steps.

As described herein entanglement swapping may be applied to information transfer sharing or communication without the need for a classical communications channel. Optionally this can be accomplished without the sender or receiver having access to information or resources held by the other.

Entanglement swapping is a quantum process by which particles that are not entangled become entangled with each other. For example consider that particles 1 P1 and 2 P2 are entangled with each other and that particles 3 P3 and 4 P4 are entangled with each other. To entangle P1 and P4 particles P2 and P3 are interfered on a beam splitter and then are measured. The interference and measurement swaps the entanglements P1 P2 and P3 P4 to P1 P4. Particles P2 and P3 are also affected by the measurement device and may be absorbed. The process of entanglement swapping has previously been verified. See e.g. J. W. Pan D. Bouwmeester H. Weinfurter and A. Zeilinger Experimental Entanglement Swapping Entangling Photons That Never Interacted Physical Review Letters 80 3891 3894 May 1998 which described a process of entanglement swapping with experimental verification using entangled photons. Swapping may be considered as the teleportation of an unknown photon particle state onto another photon particle.

Thus far relatively few applications have found uses for entanglement swapping. Potential applications for entanglement swapping in quantum technology include quantum computing quantum communications and quantum imaging. There are potentially many benefits to using entanglement swapping for quantum imaging that have not yet been described or exploited. The reason for this is that entanglement swapping has required high precision in its implementation and great expense for equipment that achieves the high precision. The lack of robust applications for entanglement swapping has been another drawback to its implementation in technology. This technology is being miniaturized in solid state devices and some components are being tested on chips. These quantum chips can generated entangled particles and perform interference operations and measurements of quantum states.

It would be beneficial to have an entanglement swapping application that is robust and can be implemented with both available and evolving technologies. One way to make entanglement swapping useful would be to apply it information transfer sharing or communication without the need for a classical communications channel. For example the current Internet radio and telephone are generally considered to be a classical communications channels. Another way to make entanglement swapping useful would be to be able to transfer share or communicate by quantum means without the sender or receiver needing access to information or resources held by the other. For example the sender having access to photons P2 P3 and the receiver having access to photons P1 P4 is sufficient to transfer information from sender to receiver. Repetition of this process allows the transfer of images without sending classical information and by only sharing entanglement. This type of communication of information such as data and or images would be difficult to detect by an external observer since there would be no particle or radiation going between the sender and the receiver that which an observer would be able to sense and follow. Military and domestic applications requiring stealth and or security would benefit from this capability.

Benefits of entanglement swapping for quantum imaging may include performing an entanglement swap to optimize photon detection efficiency while simultaneously optimizing transmission properties from an illumination source to a target. Another benefit is that an entanglement swap may be used to measure absorption maps of a target without the need to measure reflected photons. Furthermore entanglement swapping may be used to help compute the product of the absorption values at two locations on a target. Using the environment to enable entanglement swapping would provide a direct and remote measurement on the environment. For example absorption of photons by a remote target can be sensed by the enabling of quantum swapping of entangled particles which can be measured remotely without need for the return of photons from the target. It should be noted that besides images of absorption fields of targets any property can be imaged by enabling quantum swapping when the quantum particle is sensitive to the effects of object. Furthermore with time sequencing this provides range information from for example the source of entangled quantum particles to target features. It should be further realized that the source or sources of the entangled quantum particles need not be located with the equipment used to direct particles towards a target sender or located with the equipment that measured those entangled particles that never directly interacted with the target receiver . For example the source or sources of the entangled particles may be on a satellite that would send the entangled particle pairs to the sender equipment and receiver equipment. Alternately both the sender and receiver may have a single entangled quantum particle source and each shares one particle of their entangled particle pairs with the other. The identification of which particles are entangled with each other relative to initial entangled pair creation times may be achieved using an auxiliary time stamp e.g. a laser pulse encoded with time information for each entangled photon pair created that propagates with each particle of each entangled particle pair. Although not obvious we consider it possible to use thermal light photon number fluctuations and their correlations and quantum illumination for variations of teleportation and swapping in our current inventions with swapping. Further benefits of entanglement swapping applied to quantum imaging using measurements of reflected photons may include application to quantum imaging of remote targets and microscopy with the images being generated for the user at a distant location with entangled photons that did not interact directly with the target. The reflected photons may be further used to compute the product of reflectance or the product of reflected intensities of at least two locations on the target. Current imaging systems such as cameras are dependent on producing imaging using photons that have directly interacted with the target. The sharing of images taken by a camera normally requires communication by electromagnetic radiation that takes specific paths to communicate a facsimile of the image between sender and receiver. Even quantum teleportation may require a classical communication channel using electromagnetic radiation that takes specific paths to communicate. Entanglement swapping could be applied to quantum teleportation to replace the classical channel. The two bit Bell state measurement between the information quantum state qubit and one particle of the entangled particle pair could be transmitted to the receiver by manipulation of the Bell state of the entangled particles undergoing the quantum swapping to be the same Bell state that was measured for the teleportation. The receiver would then be able to measure the swapped Bell state and have the two bits to modulate the particle with the teleported information to recover the information qubit to complete the teleportation process. Alternatively a sequence of on off swapping representing the two bits could be used to transfer the information to the receiver to use to recover the teleported information qubit.

Representation of the on off swapping may be accomplished by choosing to swap quantum entanglement with particles possessing a second quantum property. For photons this second quantum property may be for example wavelength where the first quantum property conveying the information may be for example polarization. Choosing to entanglement swap between two sets of entangled particles with distinct second quantum properties allows for a positive valued discrimination of not only those cases where swapping is enabled by a shutter being open on but a positive valued discrimination where swapping is in the off state. This would improve the transfer of information where there may be a high loss of entangled particles between the entanglement sources and the receiver. In that case 0 or off settings may be over reported due to that loss whereas when two properties are being used one to represent the on or open case and the other quantum property representing the off or closed case loss of quantum particles from the entanglement source to the receiver would typically be the same for both quantum properties and potential over representation of the off case reduced. An alternate method to realize the transfer of information by quantum means from a sender to a receiver would be to send the values of 1 or 0 zero in a sequence that would correspond to a predetermined code. The individual values of 1 or 0 would be accomplished by a combination of on and off operations assigned to represent 1 and a separate combination of on and off operations assigned to represent 0. A particularly robust implementation of this alternate method was experimentally verified by the inventors and goes as follows. To turn on for example a the sender would operate on their portions of a sequence of entangled quantum particles with the shutter or other device operating to enable swapping of entanglement between the sender s quantum particles and the receiver s quantum particles i.e. an on state from time T1 to time T2. This would be followed by b operations on their portions of a sequence of entangled particles with the shutter or other device operating to disable swapping of entanglement between the sender s quantum particles and the receiver s quantum particles i.e. an off state from time T2 to time T3. Finally c the sender would repeat the operations of step a from time T3 to time T4. The receiver would then make three sets of coincident measurements from time T1 to time T2 time T2 to time T3 and time T3 to time T4. Then the number of coincidences measured during T1 to T2 would be added to the number of coincidences measured to the number of coincidences measurements made during T3 to T4 and then subtract twice the number of coincidence measurements made during T2 to T3. This value would then be divided by its absolute value. The receiver computed value of 1 would indicate that the sender has transferred to the receiver a 1 value. To transfer a 0 value the sender would d operate on their portions of a sequence of entangled particles with the shutter or other device operating to disable swapping of entanglement between the senders particles and the receivers particles i.e. an off state from time T5 to T6 followed by e operations on their portions of a sequence of entangled particles with the shutter or other devices operating to enable swapping of entanglement between the senders particles and the receivers particles i.e. an on state from time T6 to T7. Finally f the sender would repeat operations on their portions of a sequence of entangled particles with the shutter or other device operating to disable swapping of entanglement between the sender s particles and the receiver s particles from time T7 to time T8. The receiver would then make three sets of coincident measurements from time T5 to time T6 time T6 to time T7 and time T7 to time T8. Then the number of coincidences measured during T5 to T6 would be added to the number of coincidences measured during T7 to T8 and then twice the number of coincidence measurements made during T6 to T7 would be subtracted. This value would then be divided by its absolute value. The value computed would be 1. When the value is 1 then the number 1 is added to give the value 0. Thus sequences of values of 1 and 0 can be sent between sender and receiver. This method is robust in practice since it can work even when there is experimental noise or drift in coincidence counts. As observed our experiments the on operations tend to give higher coincidence counts than nearby in time off operations. Analogously off operations tend to give less coincidence counts than nearby in time on operations. This result is sufficient to verify the non local quantum transfer of information between sender and receiver by embodiments of our inventions. It would be beneficial to use entanglement swapping to communicate images or quantum images that does not require a classical communications channel to complete the transfer of images between a sender and a distant user at the receiver in order to avoid having the classical communications channel blocked which would also block image communication. This means to transmit the two bit measurement is stealthier and faster and does not require the transmission of energy or particles between the sender and receiver that would ordinarily carry that information. Communication information transfer using entanglement swapping would be an entirely quantum process. Another embodiment would employ enabling partially enabling or disabling the swapping of entanglement to transfer from a sender to a receiver an analog type signal. The enabling partially enabling or disabling of an entanglement swap may be accomplished through the use of delay lines or similar components. A delay line is typically used to ensure entangled particle overlap on a beam splitter or other device to maximize the probability to achieve a swap of entanglement. For example an optical delay line is a device that precisely controls the distances that a photon travels through the device. By varying the distance the photon travels one controls the delay time through the device. Delay lines may also be used instead to minimize quantum particle overlap on the beam splitter to disable the entanglement swap. The overlap of the entangled particles can be controlled and or modulated from fully overlapped to non overlapped which allows for analog type signals to be transmitted. In the case of constructive interference the coincidence rate measured by the receiver will be enhanced when there is a high degree of overlap and the coincidence rate measured by the receiver will be decreased when there is a small degree of overlap. In the case of destructive interference the measured coincidence rate by the receiver is decreased when there is a high degree of overlap and increased when the degree of overlap decreases. The constructive or destructive interference is related to the Bell state of the entangled particles interacting on a beam splitter. This effect is similar to Hong Ou Mandel interference Hong C. K. Ou Z. Y. Mandel L. 1987 Measurement of subpicosecond time intervals between two photons by interference . Phys. Rev. Lett. 59 18 2044 2046 . In the limit of fully overlapped entangled particles this could be considered a binary on and when completely non overlapped as a binary off . Control of entanglement to transfer information from a sender to a receiver may be accomplished in a variety of ways. The process of control of the entanglement that enables the transfer the properties of entanglement from one pair of entangled photons to a second pair of entangled photons is often called entanglement swapping. In the case of using entangled photons for entanglement swapping one way would be for the sender to control the reception of one or more of the entangled photons. This type control may be accomplished through the use of interrupt type components such as shutters or switches to fully block or unblock the reception of those photons. It is also appreciated that controlling the probability of an entanglement swap to transfer analog type information from a sender to a receiver may be accomplished through the use of components such as delay lines. In this case the delay line is controlled to vary the degree of entangled photon overlap and interference on a beam splitter type device. A delay line is typically used to ensure entangled particle overlap on a beam splitter or other device to maximize the probability to achieve a swap of entanglement. For example an optical delay line is a device that precisely controls the distance and therefore the time of travel through the device. That is the device can be used to delay the time of arrival of a photon to the output port of the device. By varying the distance the photon travels one controls the time of travel through the device. Delay lines may also be used instead to minimize quantum particle overlap on the beam splitter to disable the entanglement swap. Other types of devices such as variable attenuators may also be used to control in a continuous manner the probability of an entanglement swap. The speed of quantum information has been recently been reported as being greater than or equal to 1.37 10times the speed of light. See J. Yin et al. Lower Bound on the Speed of Nonlocal Correlations without Locality and Measurement Choice Loopholes Physical Review Letters 110 260407 2013 . The benefits of utilizing swapping in the process of quantum communications is that communications would be at the speed of the quantum information even if it is faster than the speed of light which can be beneficial for many applications. Computers and processor are used to control sending and receiving of the information using entanglement swapping.

Over short transmission distances photons of different frequencies may propagate satisfactorily for quantum communications between the sender and the receiver. However over longer distances photons at some frequencies may be susceptible to appreciable absorption by the transmission media such as optical fiber the atmosphere or water. If the photon is absorbed then the quantum information associated with that photon would be lost. One way to extend the distance over which quantum information may be transmitted through a media is to convert the frequency of the photon carrying the quantum information to a frequency which is less readily absorbed. See Shahriar et al Connecting processing capable quantum memories over telecommunication links via quantum frequency conversion J. Phys. B At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 2012 124018. A difficulty in doing this is that conventional frequency conversion methods tend to destroy the quantum information. In the following an invention is described to convert photon frequency while preserving the quantum information associated with that photon. A preferred embodiment is directed to mitigation of transmission loss specifically towards mitigating the transmission loss of photon based qubits when propagating through absorbing and transmitting media and improving the efficiency for the detection of a photon based qubit. As an example for a photon based qubit propagating through a typical optical fiber there are minima of attenuation for frequencies corresponding to 1310 nm and 1550 nm wavelengths. Other media such as the atmosphere or underwater would have different transmission properties that make it advisable to convert the frequency of the photon based qubit to minimize absorption and scattering losses along the path from the sender to the receiver.

A further advantage to be attained with frequency conversion is for detection efficiency. Many silicon based photon detectors have peak detection efficiencies at frequencies corresponding to approximately 780 nm wavelengths. However for example cold atom ensembles or ion quantum systems have peak emissions at frequencies corresponding to wavelengths for instance at 240 nm for one type of quantum system to 1400 nm for another type of quantum system.

In practice one means by which frequency conversion of a photon based qubit would be to 1 convert the frequency of the photon based qubit to a frequency optimized for transmission through the media between the sender and the receiver 2 the receiver would then convert the frequency of the transmitted qubit to a frequency optimized for their detection system.

Generally speaking transmission of quantum information or qubits over long distances or in challenging environments is problematic. To mitigate absorption or scattering losses inherent in long distance transmission of quantum information the choice of an appropriate photon frequency or wavelength for transmission is desirable. Typically frequency wavelength conversion for lasers is accomplished using the non linear processes of Sum Frequency Generation SFG or Difference Frequency Generation DFG . To bridge the difference in wavelength between photons suited for fiber based communication and the photons emitted and absorbed by the atomic memories two strategies have been demonstrated. One strategy is sum frequency generation SFG and difference frequency generation DFG which are second order nonlinear processes that must satisfy energy conservation and phase matching conditions. For sum frequency generation SFG the processes involves three frequencies interacting in a non linear crystal subject to the condition where is the frequency of the photon that one wants to change to a more desirable frequency and a pump source at frequency . Similarly in difference frequency generation the conservation condition is . The nonlinear crystals used typically have phase matching conditions where the momentum and polarization of the light interacting with the crystal must be considered. Typically in order to preserve quantum state information which is often encoded in the polarization of a single photon the wavefunction of that single photon needs to be split into orthogonal polarization components and each component would then be frequency individually before the wavefunctions are recombined for transmission or interaction with some device.

Difference frequency generation and Sum Frequency Generation typically occur in materials with large such as periodically poled lithium niobate PPLN and conversion efficiencies can approach 100 . Another proven method to bridge the wavelength gap is the third order nonlinear process of four wave mixing FWM . Under the correct conditions a near IR photon can be converted to a telecom wavelength photon via four wave mixing using two pump lasers and an atomic ensemble. Cold Rb atoms in a magneto optical trap MOT combined with the correct pump lasers can achieve high efficiency four wave mixing with very little noise added to the signal. See in this regard A Quantum Network with Atoms and Photons QNET AP by Ronald E. Meyers et al. US Army Research Laboratory Adelphi Md. 20783 Proc. SPIE 8518 Quantum Communications and Quantum Imaging X 85180G Oct. 17 2012 doi 10.1117 12.97414 herein incorporated by reference.

It is to be appreciated that frequency conversion may also be done to transform the frequency of light from some quantum system that may be difficult to manipulate or detect into another frequency where those operations such as photon detection are more efficiently accomplished see L. Ma et al. Single photon frequency up conversion and its applications Proc. SPIE 8163 81630N 2011 . The non linear media used may be bulk crystals such as BBO or LBO newer periodically poled media such as periodically poled lithium niobate PPLN or even nonlinear interactions in doped optical fibers. Each type of nonlinear media must be engineered to meet the requirements of the particular application i.e. what frequencies to be converted between what polarizations and what momentum are to be phase matched. A further concern with many non linear crystals is their inherent property of birefringence. This birefringence property leads to a delay in the time it takes one polarization to travel across these crystals relative to a different polarization. With respect to quantum frequency conversion any such delay must be accounted for and corrected or quantum information would be lost in the frequency conversion process. A further motivation to perform quantum frequency conversion would be to mitigate temporal dispersion effects which would typically lead to timing and synchronization problems between a sender and a receiver.

A quantum communications channel or quantum channel is a communications channel that can preserve quantum information such as a the horizontal and vertical amplitudes of a photon polarization based qubit or b the entanglement between two qubits of quantum information. Examples of quantum channels may include fiber optics for single entangled photon propagation and free space propagation for single entangled photons. Another distinction between a quantum channel and a classical channel is that information sent via a quantum channel need not travel along a well defined path from the sender to a receiver by some underlying physical carrier particle e.g. electrons or photons. Quantum teleportation is one example of a quantum channel where the state of an information qubit is transferred directly to the receiver and where the reliever needs two bits of information transferred along a classical channel that contain instructions for the receiver to use on measuring the teleported information qubit that recovers the state of the initial information qubit.

As used herein a quantum repeater is a quantum memory coupled to at least one other quantum memory. The quantum memories may be composed of atoms ions nitrogen vacancy NV diamonds quantum dots superconducting quantum interference devices SQUIDs or other systems capable of representing and storing quantum states. Quantum memories can be entangled with each other and transfer of information from one such quantum memory node to another quantum memory node is accomplished with Bell measurements and transmission of two bits over classical i.e. fiber optic electronic wireless radio free space optical or quantum communications channels representing the result of the Bell measurement. Quantum memories as used herein are typically manipulated using a series of pulses that adjust a particular quantum state within the material that constitutes the quantum memory. See for example Sangouard et al. Quantum repeaters based on atomic ensembles and linear optics Review of Modern Physics 83 1 pp 33 80 2011 . These pulses may include laser radio frequency microwave voltage current etc. pulse sequences on the material that makes up the quantum memory to perform reset write and read operations. A reset or initialization operation involves a sequence of pulses that would establish a specified superposition of the quantum state or qubit of the quantum memory. The write operation would consist of a sequence of pulses that allows the quantum memory state to be accessed for an external qubit value to be stored in the quantum memory. Similarly the read operation is a sequence of pulses that causes the state of the quantum memory to be removed from the quantum memory as a photon or some other quantum particle to be measured. The quantum memories may be composed of atoms ions nitrogen vacancy NV diamonds quantum dots superconducting quantum interference devices SQUIDs or other systems capable of representing and storing quantum states. Quantum memories may be used for applications such as quantum information processing where multiple operations for a quantum algorithm maybe performed on the stored quantum state entanglement swapping and storage of entangled photon pairs while maintaining their entanglement. It is to be further noted that quantum memories may store entangled photon pairs and preserve the entanglement of those photon pair. Challenges are presented in the transmission and exfiltration of quantum information or qubits over long distances or in challenging environments. To overcome the absorption or scattering losses inherent in long distance transmission of quantum information networks of quantum repeaters have been proposed to entangle remote quantum memories because Quantum information is typically fragile and not readily amplified. Entanglement is established between distant locations though a chain of entanglement swapping processes between nearby entanglement resources that ultimately leave the quantum particles at the ends of the chain entangled with each other even when the probability to directly entangle the two quantum particles is vanishingly small due to cumulative absorption and scattering losses between them. By swapping entanglement between nearby nodes losses due to absorption and scattering are greatly reduced.

Quantum teleportation as used herein refers to the transfer of quantum information a qubit from one location to another without that qubit being transmitted directly through the space between the sender and the receiver. As an example this can be accomplished by the sender and the receiver each possessing one photon of an entangled photon pair. In other words they are often said to be sharing the entangled photon pair quantum state. When the sender wishes to send a qubit by quantum teleportation the sender performs a Bell measurement with sender s photon of the shared entangled photon pair and the qubit to be transferred to the receiver. A Bell state measurement with photons may use a beam splitter to interfere the photons and their wavefunctions prior to being measured with photon detectors. The outcome of the Bell measurement will be sent to the receiver over classical channels and consists of two bits. Embodiments of our invention replace the classical channel with quantum channels. When the receiver gets the two bits the receiver then applies to their photon of the of the initially shared entangled photon one of four unitary operations depending upon what the two bits indicate. The sender and receiver each may be said to operate on one half of an entangled photon pair system or in other words half of an entangled quantum system or entangled system. Typically these operations can be represented by a matrix and correspond to the Identity matrix and three other matrices. For example 

Quantum teleportation may operate in non line of sight NLOS configurations where one or both of the entanglement resources are distributed to senders and receivers where there is no direct path from the entangled resource source. In the case of entangled photon transmission in the atmosphere this feature may be enabled for example by using scattering and photons with a wavelength in the ultraviolet wavelength bands. After the distribution of the entanglement resources the teleportation process would proceed as described above. In the current invention the outcome of the Bell measurement a first measured Bell state between the information qubit and one photon of an entangled pair of photons can be transferred to the receiver in the following ways a the classical channel as described above b generation of a Bell state using a second entangled particle source and appropriate modulators such as electro optics for photons that is the same as the measured Bell state and transferring this new entangled photon pair to the receiver for measurement to recreate the information qubit c utilizing an entanglement swapping process to transfer the first measured Bell state to the receiver wherein the first measured Bell state is generated using appropriate modulators d utilization of an on off entanglement swapping information encoding e if an up conversion Bell state measurement process for photon based teleportation is used then the unconverted photon may be transferred to the receiver on a path that is specific to the measured value this path could then be interfered with the remaining photon of the first entangled pair on for instance a hologram where the specific measurement outcome paths are directed towards the hologram and interact with the remaining entangled photon the interaction then directing the remaining entangled photon towards appropriate waveguides and or polarization and phase modulators to recreate the information qubit and other means apparent to those skilled in the art.

As used herein the terminology Bell measurement or Bell State measurement is a joint quantum mechanical measurement of two qubits or photons that determines the Bell state one of four possible states of the two qubits or photons.

As used herein the terminology Bell state measurement device or element comprises for example a beam splitter and at least two detectors.

As used herein the terminology Bell state two bit measurement refers to the two bits of data associated with representing a Bell state measurement outcome.

As used herein the term quantum state tomography refers to a method of verifying a quantum state. Quantum tomography or quantum state tomography refers to the process of reconstructing the quantum state density matrix by measurements. Measurements that are tomographically complete i.e. provide all the information about the state are sometimes called a quorum.

A photonic element is needed to receive quantum particles and enable interference between the received quantum particles. For example a photonic element may have two inputs and two outputs. Quantum particles entering such a photonicelement will a a quantum particle enters at input 1 and a quantum particle enters at input 2 and both particles then exit from output 1 b a quantum particle enters at input 1 and a quantum particle enters at input 2 and both particles then exit from output 2 c a quantum particle entering at input 1 will exit output 1 and a quantum particle entering input 2 will exit output 2 or d a quantum particle entering input 1 will exit output 2 and a quantum particles entering input 2 will exit output 1. This allows for two alternative but indistinguishable ways to measure a joint detection of two input quantum particles. An optical 50 50 beam splitter is an example of a component that may be used as a photonic element for entangled and non entangled photons. The beam splitter is a traditional element to enable interference between two quantum particle probability amplitudes. However there are many other photonic elements used individually or in combination that are not traditionally described as beam splitters but can enable interference. These include but are not limited to optical elements for photons such as half silvered mirrors pellicle beam splitters 2 2 fiber couplers N M fiber couplers etched photonic chips waveguides polarizing beam splitters Wollaston prisms Glan Thomson prisms holograms photonic crystals a thin film coating of silver on glass and the like. It must be noted that when only a single input i.e. a quantum particle entering at input 1 or input 2 is provided to an interference element the interference or photonic element then acts as a beam splitter where the quantum particle probability amplitude is directed into two or more output paths e.g. output 1 or output 2. It is to be further appreciated that charged or neutral quantum particles such as neutral atoms ions electrons neutrons may require other interference or photonic elements that are appropriate for those types of quantum particles.

With respect to the terminology entanglement swapping a simplified example is if a first particle or photon is entangled with a second particle and the second particle is teleported to a third particle or photon afterwards the first particle or photon is entangled with the third particle or photon .

The terminology computer as used herein means processor microprocessor CPU multiprocessor personal computer quantum computer or any device which has the capability of performing the functions of a computer. The terminology processor as used herein means as used herein means computer microprocessor CPU multiprocessor personal computer or any device which has the capability of performing the functions of a computer.

As used herein the terminology unitary transformation device relates to a device that performs a unitary transformation operation on the entangled state. As an example the identity function is trivially a unitary operator and rotations in R2 are a nontrivial example of unitary operators. Rotations do not change the length of a vector or the angle between 2 vectors.

The terminology interrupt as used herein relates to a switch shutter electronic optical or other delay or any device which has the capability to start or stop a signal.

Measurement of a photon by a detector typically entails the absorption of the photon by a photo sensitive material. The photo sensitive material would then typically produce an excess charge or change in current that would be recorded as a detection of a photon. As such some embodiments of the current invention illustrated in would only require that the two photons be absorbed after interaction on the beam splitter to complete the swap of entanglement to the remaining two photons. It should be further appreciated that communication of data from a sender to a receiver in the presence of noise can be better represented by correlation measurements between two detectors than measurement by either of the detectors separately. Single photon measurements may be subject to a variety of noise from sources such as quantum noise stray light scattering and detector noise. Joint detection or coincidence measurements which include correlation measurements and Bell state measurements etc. largely reduce the effects of this type of noise that would otherwise degrade the data signal or message that would be communicated. While it is not generally appreciated in this area corrections can also be made to the coincidence measurements by first determining the background level of coincidence detections and compensating for this background by incorporating the single photon measurements as described in R. Meyers et al. U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 14 303 078 and 14 461 625 herein incorporated by reference. Interpretations of measurements between at least two detectors such as in coincidence measurements can be improved by monitoring the single photon measurement counts and scaling by incorporating the single photon counts. For example for photon number resolving detectors the subtraction of the product of a relevant time average of the single photon counts from the relevant time average of the product of the single photon counts may improve the fidelity of the information received by the receiver that was sent by the sender. Also periods of high coincidence measurements with low single photon counts may indicate periods where there is low background noise and where signals can be received with higher fidelity.

As used herein the terminology correlated means that the correlation value is non zero i.e. positive or negative and uncorrelated means that the correlation value is zero.

The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the invention but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. The following claims including all equivalents thereof are intended to define the scope of the invention.

