---

title: Flexible plate fixation of bone fractures
abstract: Embodiments provide methods, apparatuses, and systems for fixation of a fractured bone with a bone plate. In various embodiments, the systems and plates provide elastic suspension of the receiving holes relative to an osteosynthesis plate. This elastic suspension can promote load distribution between the screws that connect a bone segment to the plate, thereby reducing stress risers and load shielding effect. In addition, stress at the screw holes, and within the construct as a whole, is reduced by incorporation of these elastic elements in the plate. Additionally, in some embodiments where fracture healing by callus formation is desired, elastic suspension of the receiving holes relative to the osteosynthesis plate can enable small, controlled amounts of relative motion between bone fragments connected by the plate. This relative motion can promote fracture healing by callus formation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09510879&OS=09510879&RS=09510879
owner: Zimmer, Inc.
number: 09510879
owner_city: Warsaw
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140618
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 490 249 which is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 166 539 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 428 745 filed Dec. 30 2010 entitled FLEXIBLE PLATE FIXATION OF BONE FRACTURES and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 357 855 filed Jun. 23 2010 entitled FLEXIBLE PLATE FIXATION OF BONE FRACTURES. This application additionally claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 594 560 filed Feb. 3 2012 and entitled BONE PLATE FOR OSTEOSYNTHESIS the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under AR061201 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Osteosynthesis plates for stabilization of bone fractures are typically applied with bone screws. Traditionally bone screws were used to compress a plate onto the bone surface to provide stable fixation. More recently locking plates have been introduced which typically have threaded receiving holes for positive angle stable engagement with the threaded head portion of a locking screw. These types of locking plates have been described in French patent document 742 618 U.S. Pat. No. 5 709 686 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 741 258. These locking plates can provide more stable fixation in the ends of weak osteoporotic bone compared to traditional non locking plates.

Clinically locking plate constructs face two principal challenges that may be addressed by the present invention. First a locked plate construct may alter the load distribution in bone which may either cause bone resorption in case of load shielding or bone fracture due to implant induced stress risers. Second the high stiffness of a locked plate construct can suppress relative displacement between bone fragments whereby this interfragmentary motion is important to promote the natural cascade of fracture healing by callus formation. Therefore overly stiff locking plate constructs may delay or prevent fracture healing by callus formation.

The present invention addresses both of these challenges. First elastic suspension of the receiving holes relative to the osteosynthesis plate promotes load distribution between the screws that connect a bone segment to the plate thereby reducing stress risers and load shielding effects. Second elastic suspension of the receiving holes relative to the osteosynthesis plate enables small controlled amounts of relative motion between bone fragments connected by the plate. These controlled amounts of relative motion can promote fracture healing by callus formation.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 943 292 describes the use of a cushion of elastic material between the screw head and the bone plate to reduce construct stiffness and to allow early motion at the fracture site. However U.S. Pat. No. 4 943 292 can only be practiced with non locking screws whereby the plate has to be compressed onto the bone surface. This prevents relative motion between the plate and the bone surface required to induce axial motion at the fracture site.

To enable relative motion between the plate and the bone surface with non locking screws the use of resorbable or biodegradable materials spaced between a screw head and a plate US 2010 0249850 U.S. Pat. No. 4 338 926 has been disclosed. However this prior art provides relative stiff fixation in the early healing phase where a flexible construct is most desirable to stimulate formation of a healing callus. Furthermore the prior art progressively loosens over time as resorption of the biodegradable material at the screw plate interface causes an increasing lack of fixation stability.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US2011 0118742A1 describes means for permanent displacement of a screw hole relative to a bone plate to generate static compression across the bone fracture spanned by the bone plate. Their invention relies on plastic deformation of the screw hole and is therefore not suitable for elastic suspension of a screw hole to induce dynamic motion at a fracture site to stimulate fracture healing by callus formation. Moreover deformation of a locking screw hole may compromise the screw bone interface.

The present invention employs elastic suspension of receiving holes in a plate whereby the screw hole does not undergo deformation and whereby said receiving holes are threaded to receive locking screws that enable plate elevation over the bone surface. Alternatively elastically suspended receiving hole elements may extend past the lower surface of the plate when used with non locking screws to allow plate suspension over the bone surface which is required to support relative motion between the plate and the bone surface.

It is therefore beneficial and desirable to stabilize a bone fracture with the plate of the present invention to enhance load distribution between screws and to promoted fracture site motion when fracture healing by callus formation is desired.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding embodiments however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent.

The description may use perspective based descriptions such as up down back front and top bottom. Such descriptions are merely used to facilitate the discussion and are not intended to restrict the application of disclosed embodiments.

The terms coupled and connected along with their derivatives may be used. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Rather in particular embodiments connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical contact with each other. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. However coupled may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still cooperate or interact with each other.

For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B or in the form A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form at least one of A B and C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B means B or AB that is A is an optional element.

The description may use the terms embodiment or embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments are synonymous.

In various embodiments methods apparatuses and systems for fixation of a fractured bone are provided. In various embodiments the systems and plates may provide elastic suspension of receiving holes relative to an osteosynthesis plate. In various embodiments this elastic suspension may promote load distribution between screws that connect a bone segment to the plate thereby reducing stress risers and the load shielding effect. In addition in various embodiments stress at the screw holes and within the construct as a whole may be reduced by incorporation of these elastic elements in the plate. Additionally in some embodiments for instance if fracture healing by callus formation is desired elastic suspension of the receiving holes relative to the osteosynthesis plate may enable small controlled amounts of relative motion between bone fragments connected by the plate which may promote fracture healing by callus formation. In some embodiments relative motion between bone fragments enabled by the elastic elements may be substantially parallel to an upper or lower surface of the bone plate or substantially parallel to a bone surface. This elastic suspension may be achieved through the use of an elastomer material such as medical grade silicone as a spacer and spring element.

In some embodiments elastic suspension is achieved through the use of spring elements or elastic beam elements. These spring elements or elastic beam elements may be at least partially comprised of metal which may be supplemented with an elastomer fill material. The space surrounding the spring elements or elastic beam elements may be at least partially filled with an elastomer material in order to prevent bottoming out or straining of the element which can lead to breaking. This elastomer material may be for example a medical grade silicone polymer.

It will be appreciated that the elastomer material may be used in any embodiment described herein by at least partially filling any gaps or spaces between components used with the bone plates.

Unlike other devices bone plates in accordance with certain embodiments disclosed herein may be configured to be suspended above the surface of the bone so that a gap is present between the lower surface of the plate and the upper surface of the bone. In various embodiments this may be accomplished by using locking screws that are designed to engage with a threaded hole in the bone plate. In various embodiments the coupling of a locking screw with a corresponding portion of a bone plate may ensure that the locking screw is only inserted to a certain extent for instance the point where the screw locks into the hole of the bone plate. In another embodiment the receiving hole elements may extend through the lower surface of the bone plate for instance so that the plate remains suspended over the bone surface even if a bone fastener is used to compress the receiving hole element to the one bone.

In other embodiments for instance if direct fracture healing is desired elastic suspension of the receiving holes relative to the osteosynthesis plate may promote elastic compression across a fracture site whereby the plate may be affixed to the bone with non locking screws inserted in an eccentric manner in order to induce compression across the fracture. Thus in various embodiments it may be beneficial and desirable to stabilize a bone fracture with a plate as disclosed herein to enhance load distribution between screws to promote fracture site motion when fracture healing by callus formation is desired and or to induce prolonged compression across a fracture when direct fracture healing is desired.

In various embodiments the circular through hole of rivet may be threaded and the threads may extend into quasi rectangular through hole of screw hole member . In various embodiments a screw with matching threads may be inserted from the upper plate surface through the rivet and the screw locking feature may be sufficiently large to extend laterally across motion gap of elastic segments . Thus in various embodiments the screw locking feature may therefore limit deflection of screw hole member toward lower plate surface . Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments the rivet head may limit deflection of screw hole member toward upper plate surface . Thus the illustrated example may enable controlled translation of screw hole member relative to the longitudinal axis of the plate yet may limit translation relative to the plane of bone plate when screw hole member is guided between the screw locking feature and rivet head .

Another example of a bone plate that includes a rivet is shown in which illustrate a top view a cross sectional view and an exploded perspective view of a bone plate having a rectangular rivet a screw and a plate with generally symmetrically arranged elastic segments flanking the screw receiving hole on either side all in accordance with various embodiments. In this embodiment rivet may have a rectangular or square shape and may be recessed into the top and or bottom surfaces of bone plate . In some embodiments rivet may include a separate center shaft portion and one or two shoulder portions coupled thereto. In various embodiments the upper and or lower shoulder portions of rivet may limit translation of receiving hole in a direction that is substantially perpendicular to the upper or lower plane of bone plate . In other words rivet may constrain out of plane motion while still allowing axial e.g. in plane translation of receiving hole relative to bone plate or vice versa . In some embodiments screw may be a locking screw for instance a screw having a threaded head portion or it may be a non locking screw. In some embodiments a non locking screw may compress shoulder portions and center shaft portion of rivet onto the bone while plate may retain an axially flexible connection with the bone via elastic segments .

As discussed above and as illustrated in a bone plate in accordance with the present disclosure may include elastic segments that may be symmetrically arranged in proximity with the screw hole for instance to enable translation of the screw hole member in a principally axial direction. In some embodiments screw hole member may be guided to remain within the plane of the plate by a thread that may extend from screw hole across the motion gap and into the plate member . In some embodiments thread may be characterized by an outer diameter that is considerably larger than the core diameter. For example a suitable core diameter is in the range of 2 to 5 and a suitable outer diameter is in the range of 4 to 10.

In various embodiments the locking screw may include a correspondingly threaded head segment with an outer diameter that is considerably larger than the core diameter. However in various embodiments the outer diameter of the thread of the screw head segment may be smaller than the outer diameter of thread in screw hole member . In various embodiments the outer diameter of thread in screw head segment may remain large enough to extend across the motion gap and into the plate member once inserted into the screw hole . In some embodiments screw head may include a locking feature at may enable rigid fixation of screw head inside screw hole member . In particular embodiments once screw is fixed to screw hole member screw hole member may translate in a principally axial direction relative to the plate longitudinal axis for instance due to the difference in outer diameters between screw head thread and plate thread . However in some embodiments extension of screw head thread across motion gap and into plate member may limit deflection of screw hole member outside the plane of plate .

Also included in some embodiments in the vicinity of receiving hole are one or more slots extending from the upper surface to the bone contacting surface . In various embodiments at least one substantially C shaped E shaped or semi circular slot may extend around a substantial portion of receiving hole . In some embodiments a corresponding slot may extend from the opposite side of the periphery around receiving hole . In some embodiments the end segments of slot may overlap but not intersect the end segments of corresponding slot . Thus in various embodiments the overlapping slots and may enclose elastic beam elements e.g. spring elements that may enable elastic translation of receiving hole relative to bone plate in a direction principally parallel to the longitudinal axis of bone plate .

In the embodiment illustrated in elastic beam elements may be formed by combining at least one substantially C shaped E shaped or semicircular slot with one or more substantially linear slots extending from the periphery of bone plate in an essentially perpendicular manner to overlap but not intersect with the ends of slots .

In various embodiments the dimensions and or the configuration of the spring elements e.g. elastic beam elements and or slots may be varied in order to achieve a desired stiffness and range of elastic displacement of the bone plate relative to the receiving holes. depicts an embodiment with thicker beam elements as compared to beam elements shown in the latter allowing for more flexible displacement of receiving hole relative to bone plate member . Another example of a way to decrease the stiffness of the elastic elements is depicted in wherein the length of slot is increased in order to increase the effective length of beam elements . Yet another example of a way to decrease the stiffness of the elastic element is depicted in wherein slots are configured in a substantially E shaped formation which may yield an increased effective length of elastic beam elements . Another alternative embodiment of an elastic element is depicted in wherein receiving hole is located in vicinity of plate edge . In this example two slots may overlap but not intersect each end of a C shaped slot to form elastic beam elements .

Some embodiments of the flexible fixation bone plates may include curvilinear and or spiral shaped slots. illustrates a top view of a flexible element that includes of a single spiral shaped slot illustrates a top view of a flexible element that includes a single spiral shaped slot with curvilinear and round elements on the outside and inside spiral ends respectively illustrates a top view of a flexible element that includes a single spiral shaped slot having a thin elastic beam element illustrates a top view of a flexible element that includes a pair of interlaced spiral shaped slots wherein the flexible element is offset from the midline of the bone plate illustrates a top view of a flexible element that includes a pair of interlaced spiral shaped slots wherein the flexible element is positioned at the midline of the bone plate and illustrates a top view of a flexible element that includes three interlaced spiral shaped slots all in accordance with various embodiments.

As shown in receiving holes may be located along the midline of plate or at a distance from the longitudinal axis of plate . For example in various embodiments if receiving holes are arranged in an alternating staggered pattern relative to the longitudinal midline of plate they may provide multi planar fixation to improve the strength of the fixation between plate and the underlying bone. Both illustrate spiral slots that include two interlaced spirals. One of skill in the art will appreciate that additional spiral slots may be used such as the three slot arrangement depicted in .

In further embodiments illustrates several views of a flexible element used in conjunction with a rivet configured to protect the flexible element from excessive deformation perpendicular to the plane of the plate illustrates several views of a flexible element used in conjunction with a half rivet configured to protect the flexible element from excessive deformation perpendicular to the plane of the plate and illustrates a perspective view of a half rivet configured to protect the flexible element from excessive deformation perpendicular to the plane of the plate wherein the half rivet is used together with a customized bone screw all in accordance with various embodiments.

As illustrated in the elastic element may include a spiral shaped slot positioned around receiving hole and the spiral slot may circumscribe receiving hole once or multiple times creating elastic beam element where it overlaps. In this embodiment a rivet may be provided in receiving hole and may be configured to protect elastic beam element from excessive deformation perpendicular to the plane of plate . In various embodiments rivet may have a shoulder on each side of a central cylinder to restrict flexion of elastic beam element that may occur within the plane of plate . In embodiments the inner diameter of the central cylinder of rivet may be threaded for rigid locking with the threaded head of a bone screw . Depending on plate thickness the rivet shoulders may rest on the surface of the plate or may be recessed into the plate . In various embodiments wherein shoulder is recessed the longitudinal dimension of the recess may be larger than the corresponding dimension of rivet shoulder to allow rivet translation along the plate longitudinal axis while constraining rivet translation in a transverse direction.

In various embodiments for assembly rivet may include two parts that may be inserted from opposite sides into receiving hole and the two parts may be rigidly coupled to each other for instance by laser welding or by a thread feature between central cylinder and shoulder . Alternatively as illustrated in rivet may have only one shoulder to form a half rivet which may limit deformation of elastic beam element in only one direction. In various embodiments half rivet may include an externally threaded central cylinder for rigid engagement to elastic beam element . Alternatively in some embodiments half rivet may be attached to elastic beam element using a press fit between central cylinder and elastic beam element . In embodiments half rivet may be used in combination with a customized bone screw as shown in which may include a head that incorporates a corresponding shoulder element . Thus in various embodiments upon screw insertion elastic beam element may be confined between shoulder of half rivet and the corresponding shoulder of the screw head with the remainder of the screw head resting inside central cylinder of half rivet .

In various other embodiments shown in rivet may be elastically suspended inside receiving hole using a discrete spring element . In some embodiments spring element may include a corrugated metal strip that may circumscribe central cylinder of rivet and that may center rivet inside receiving hole while allowing for elastic translation of rivet within the plane of plate . This spring element including a corrugated metal strip may be supplemented with an elastomer fill material which at least partially fills the space between rivet and plate to provide additional elastic suspension and damping and to prevent bottoming out wear or excessive deformation of spring element . In other embodiments the spring element may include an elastomer material such as a silicone derivative that provides a hyper elastic interface filling space in the receiving hole between the central cylinder of rivet and plate . In some embodiments spring element may further retain rivet inside the plane of plate . The inner diameter of central cylinder of rivet may be threaded in some embodiments for rigid locking with the threaded head of a bone screw.

In further embodiments illustrates a top view of a threaded insert that is generated from the bone plate by introducing a slot that circumscribes the receiving hole illustrates a schematic view of the device shown in illustrates a longitudinal cross sectional view of the device shown in and illustrates a transverse cross sectional view of the device shown in all in accordance with various embodiments. As illustrated in various embodiments a threaded insert may be generated from plate by introducing a slot that circumscribes receiving hole . In various embodiments slot may be introduced in an anti parallel manner whereby two opposing sections of slot converge toward the lower side of plate while two other opposing sections diverge toward the lower side of plate . Hence in these embodiments the anti parallel slot may enable threaded insert to translate relative to plate within the confines of the slot width and without being able to disassociate from plate . The space between the threaded insert and the plate may be filled with an elastomer material. This elastomer material may comprise an elastic silicone derivative which may act as a spacer and a spring between the threaded insert and plate providing an elastic suspension of the threaded insert.

In still other embodiments illustrates a transverse cross sectional view of a threaded insert formed by the introduction of a slot that circumscribes the receiving hole in an anti parallel manner and suspended centered inside a bone plate using flexible elements illustrates a top view of the device illustrated in and illustrates a longitudinal cross sectional view of the device illustrated in all in accordance with various embodiments. As illustrated in threaded insert may be formed by the introduction of a slot that circumscribes receiving hole in an antiparallel manner as described above and threaded insert may be suspended centered inside plate using flexible elements . In an exemplary embodiment these flexible elements may be cylindrical in shape and comprised of a polymer and may provide a flexible connection between threaded insert and plate while the anti parallel slot ensures that threaded insert remains securely captured in plate . In other embodiments the threaded insert may be suspended by an elastomer material such as a silicone derivative that provides a hyper elastic interface filling a space between the threaded insert and the plate .

In other embodiments illustrates a cross sectional side view of a bone plate for elastic fixation of a bone fracture shown in functional but unloaded association with locking bone screws for spanning a bone fracture in a cylindrical bone and illustrates a cross sectional side view of a bone plate for elastic fixation of a bone fracture shown in functional association with locking bone screws for spanning a bone fracture in a cylindrical bone wherein axial compression of the cylindrical bone segments induces parallel motion at the fracture both in accordance with various embodiments.

Thus in order to illustrate a method for elastic fixation of a bone fracture depicts a cross sectional view of an embodiment for elastic fixation of a bone fracture with a bone plate that may be attached to two bone segments . In this configuration each bone segment may be connected by one or more locking bone screws to receiving holes that may be connected with elastic elements to bone plate . In embodiments the screw heads of bone screws may be rigidly connected to receiving holes for instance by matching thread features on screw heads with those on the receiving holes . In embodiments this locking mechanism between screw heads and receiving holes may enable bone plate to remain elevated above bone surface while providing elastic fixation between bone segments .

In order to illustrate a method for inducing principally parallel axial motion across a bone fracture depicts a cross sectional view of an embodiment for elastic fixation of a bone fracture subjected to axial loading as may be the case in patients that start weight bearing of a fractured extremity that has been stabilized with bone plate . In various embodiments the load acting on bone segments and onto locking screws may induce elastic translation of receiving holes relative to bone plate which in turn may cause generally parallel motion between bone segments at bone fracture . In this configuration axial loading of bone segments may cause elastic deformation of elastic beam elements wherein slot segments located at the aspect of receiving hole facing fracture become narrower while slot segments located at the receiving hole aspect facing away from fracture become wider.

In various other embodiments illustrates a cross sectional side view of a bone plate for elastic compression of a bone fracture shown in functional association with non locking bone screws for spanning a bone facture in a cylindrical bone wherein bone screws are inserted in an eccentric manner and illustrates a cross sectional side view of a bone plate for elastic compression of a bone fracture wherein tightening of eccentrically inserted bone screws induces elastic compression across a bone fracture by deformation of elastic beam elements that connect the plate holes to the plate member both in accordance with various embodiments.

Thus in order to illustrate a method for inducing elastic compression across a bone fracture depict cross sectional views of an embodiment of a bone plate applied to bridge and to elastically compress a fracture in a substantially cylindrical bone. depicts bone screws being partially inserted through receiving holes into bone segments . In various embodiments screws may be inserted eccentrically in receiving holes at a small distance from the center line of receiving hole in an opposite direction from fracture . depicts the embodiment in a cross sectional view after complete insertion of screws . Since screws were inserted eccentrically relative to receiving hole once screw heads are contacting bone plate during insertion screws may be forced to translate toward the center of receiving holes . This in turn causes bone segment attached to screws to translate relative to bone plate toward fracture thereby inducing compression across fracture . Once fracture is fully compressed any further translation may be accommodated by deformation of elastic beam elements connecting receiving holes to bone plate . In embodiments this elastic deformation may induce additional compressive forces at fracture .

As illustrated in the introduction of elastic elements in a bone plate as described elsewhere herein referred to in as an S plate may reduce axial stiffness of the plate as compared to a standard plate without the elastic elements. Notably there is little to no impact on the bending stiffness of the plate due to the introduction of the elastic elements.

Elastomer lumen provides several attributes to support elastic translation of receiving hole relative to plate in direction parallel to the upper surface of plate . First it prevents direct contact between adjacent surfaces of spiral slots to eliminate wear. Second it prevents excessive displacement of spiral beams which could otherwise lead to excessive deformation and early fatigue of the spiral beams . Third the elastomer lumen supplements the elastic connection provided by elastic beams between receiving hole and bone plate to achieve a desired suspension stiffness. Fourth elastomer lumen dampens the transfer of impact load from receiving hole to plate .

This elastomer lumen may supplement control of translation of receiving hole relative to plate in a direction perpendicular to the upper surface of plate . When used for this purpose elastomer lumen may be configured to positively adhere to the surface of slots to affect a desired elastic constraint of receiving hole relative to bone plate .

An alternative embodiment of bone plate according to the present invention is shown in wherein the receiving hole is suspended in the plate by an elastomer lumen at least partially filling a slot surrounding the receiving hole. illustrates a top view of a receiving hole in association with bone plate illustrates a bottom view of the device shown in illustrates a transverse cross sectional view of the device shown in and illustrates a longitudinal cross sectional view of the device shown in all in accordance with various embodiments. As illustrated in various embodiments slot fully circumscribes receiving hole and extends from upper surface to the bone contacting surface of plate . In contrast to the embodiment shown in there are no remaining flexible beams that connect hole within plate . Instead receiving hole is suspended in the plate by means of an elastomer lumen which may comprise a silicone lumen filling slot . Slot surrounding receiving hole is wider in longitudinal plate direction compared to the transverse direction to accommodate preferential translation of receiving hole in direction parallel to long axis of the plate while substantially limiting rotation and translation of the receiving hole in a plane that is perpendicular to plate longitudinal axis . The elastomer lumen may be configured to positively adhere to at least a portion of the surface of slot to affect a desired elastic constraint of receiving hole relative to bone plate . As an alternative means to retain receiving hole in plate slot surrounding receiving hole may be introduced in an anti parallel manner whereby the two opposing sections of slot converge toward lower side of plate while two other opposing sections diverge toward lower side of plate . The anti parallel slot may enable receiving hole to translate relative to plate within the confines of the width of slot or within the constraints provided by the elastomer lumen in slot but without being able to disassociate from plate . Based on the geometry of slot receiving hole member may be created from plate by cutting said slot in a manner to permanently retain receiving hole member in plate . In an alternative embodiment receiving hole member may be manufactured as a separate component that is rotationally inserted into a corresponding slot in plate and is subsequently suspended in plate by means of an injectable and curable elastomer lumen .

In some embodiments the bone plate may have a through hole configured to receive a removable threaded rivet insert. The insert is temporarily confined within the hole by means of a snap mechanism. Insertion of a bone screw into the threaded rivet insert disables the snap mechanism to prevent disengagement of the rivet from the through hole in the bone plate. Elastic suspension of the threaded rivet insert within the bone plate hole may be achieved by applying an elastomer coating to at least a part of the plate hole surface the periphery of the rivet or both.

In some embodiments having an opening with a major dimension in a transverse direction may effectively reduce the bending strength of bone plates which may fail in bending. Thus in various embodiments the flexible elements described herein may not have a major dimension extending in transverse direction. This orientation may cause the bone plate to retain a substantial amount of bending strength. As described elsewhere herein it is desirable to maintain the bending strength of the construct while reducing the axial stiffness of plate and additionally reducing stress at the screw hole s and in the construct as a whole. In various embodiments stress at the screw hole s may cause undesirable or detrimental deformation of the hole s .

In some embodiments if the cantilever beam were located transversely in line with the screw hole the transverse opening may extend over a substantial portion of the plate in order to derive flexibility which in turn may reduce the bending strength of the plate. Thus various embodiments disclosed herein employ a combination of two or more cantilever beams located above and below the screw hole e.g. in the longitudinal plate direction which may preserve bending strength of the plate.

In some embodiments described herein one or more pairs of cantilever beams may be employed wherein the beams of each cantilever pair are located on opposite sides of the screw hole in longitudinal direction rather than one cantilever beam element that extends in a principally transverse direction to either one or both sides of the screw hole lug depending if the screw hole is located offset from or located on the longitudinal plate midline respectively.

Some embodiments disclosed herein use pairs of slots that extend through the plate edge rather than a slot that defines the transverse opening and that surrounds the beam and lug element wherein the slot remains within the plate surface and does not extend through the plate edge.

Some embodiments include a set of slots per screw hole wherein the set combines a central slot that partially surrounds the screw hole without extending through the plate edge with peripheral slots that penetrate through the longitudinal plate edge rather than one continuous slot per screw hole whereby the slot defines the transverse opening and surrounds the beam and lug element.

Various other embodiments disclosed herein employ a set of slots to form a principally S shaped spring element having an upper and a lower cantilever element that is diagonally connected by a central segment that contains the screw hole rather than a generally I shaped cantilever beam for instance. Still other embodiments described herein employ cantilever elements of a width that is substantially smaller than the plate thickness rather than a cantilever element of a width that is larger than the plate thickness. This may ensure a desired bending direction of the cantilever beam within the plane of the plate rather than out of the plane of the plate.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes could be made to the embodiments described above without departing from the broad inventive concept thereof. Specifically the disclosed invention may be practiced for fixation of a bone plate to one side of a fracture only whereby the corresponding side of a fractured bone may be applied to the one plate by alternative means for flexible or rigid fixation. It is understood therefore that this disclosure is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but it is intended to cover modifications within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope. Those with skill in the art will readily appreciate that embodiments may be implemented in a very wide variety of ways. This application is intended to cover any combinations adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

